DRN-4148893
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited, unfairly turned down his claim under the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mr S is assisted in bringing his complaint by a legal representative, but for ease Ill refer to
anything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr S had said it himself.
What happened
In 1998 Mr S purchased a points-based timeshare holiday club membership from a holiday
operator. Over the years he purchased additional points in order that he could upgrade his
membership and enjoy additional benefits.
In June 2016 Mr S purchased a further 5,000 points via a fixed sum loan of £5,000 with
Shawbrook. In November 2017 Mr S complained to Shawbrook about the extra points hed
purchased due to the following issues:
That the benefits of membership had been misrepresented
That there had been no proper assessment conducted as to his financial position
That he had been pressurised into the accepting the loan to purchase the points
That the holiday operator had breached EU law.
Shawbrook didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the holiday product/points had been sold
in compliance with the EU Timeshare Directive 2008 and the Timeshare, Holiday Products,
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations). It said that
the points hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr S was unhappy at Shawbrooks response and complained to this service. He said that
there had been an unfair relationship between the holiday operator/Shawbrook and himself. 
Our investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt think
Shawbrook had acted unfairly in declining Mr Ss claim under section 75 and section 140(A)
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as there wasnt enough evidence to say there had been
any misrepresentation or breach of contract or that the relationship had been unfair or
unreasonable.
Mr S disagreed with the view of our investigator. In addition to submitting a 46-page opinion
from a barrister covering a number of generic submissions he said the investigators view
had been unfair and that none of the relevant clauses in the agreement to purchase the
points had been reviewed. Mr S said that the paperwork for the loan had only been made
available after he had committed to buying the points and that the time allowed for signing
the documentation had been short compared to the time taken to deliver the sales pitch. This
was, he said, a contravention of Regulation 12 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products Resale
and Exchange Contract Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations).
Mr S said that the payments he made to the holiday operator included various expenses and
fees which were likely to be in excess of the proportionate share of the costs of managing
and retaining the points value. These fees he said hadnt been in plain and intelligible
English and the terms covering the ongoing charges were unfair. Mr S said this was in
contravention of regulation 5 of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999
(UTCCR). He also said he had been provided with a vast amount of documentation in
respect of his purchase.
Mr S said there had been a misrepresentation by the supplier as it had been implied that he
would have access to holiday accommodation at a specific location, but he hadnt been able
to book this. He said that the membership was over-rated as there was no benefit from it and
non-members could book the same accommodation for a lower cost and without the added
fees.
Mr S said that he had been provided with a list of 30 resorts that could be utilised via his
membership until 2054 but under the fractionalised membership scheme that was operated
by the same holiday company, 80% of those resorts could be sold by 2031 which would be a
repudiatory breach of contract.
As the parties had been unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
As I had said above, Mr S had submitted an opinion by a barrister called Generic 
Submissions on behalf of complainants. As Mr S had suggested that the opinion was 
relevant to this complaint, I took it into account, but only insofar as it discussed points that 
were of direct relevance to this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I consider and decide complaints, I must take account of
law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and
good industry practice. I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a
fair and reasonable outcome. So, although I had read everything that had been said and
provided, I might not then have addressed every point that had been raised. Here, I was only 
considering the purchase of the 5,000 points made in June 2016 via the fixed sum loan with 
Shawbrook. The previous purchases made by Mr S since 1998 hadnt involved Shawbrook.
Mr Ss section 75 claim
A claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 can be made when a consumer
uses certain types of credit to make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 in
certain circumstances the consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider of the
credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has been a misrepresentation or
breach of contract on the suppliers part.
Misrepresentation
In order to find that a misrepresentation had occurred, there must be enough evidence to
demonstrate that a false statement of existing fact had been made and that the false
statement had induced the consumer to enter into the agreement. I didnt know what was 
actually said during the meeting between Mr S and the holiday company when the purchase 
had been made. I accepted that the sales representative might have prioritised the positives 
of the product they had been selling, but that didnt necessarily mean there had been a false 
statement of fact. I thought a lot of what gets said during sales pitches such as the one in 
question here was often just an expression of an opinion or a view.
Mr S said that he had been told that, if he hadnt bought the points there and then in June 2016 then the cost of those points would be more expensive at a later date. But Id seen that 
the cost of the suppliers holiday club was regularly reviewed. And without a more detailed
description of the allegation in question or the context in which it was made, I wasnt
persuaded that the alleged representation was factual (rather than an opinion or suggestion)
or that the sales representative(s) had information that would indicate they knew or ought
reasonably to have known at the time that any such a representation wasnt true. So, I 
couldnt reasonably say there was a misrepresentation for the reason Mr S had said there 
was.
Mr S also said that he believed he would have access to accommodation at various resorts
but then had found he was unable to book them because they were unavailable. I hadnt 
seen enough evidence as to how often this had occurred nor that bookings were guaranteed 
at any of the resorts at any time. I thought it was reasonable to expect that popular times and 
popular resorts would be booked up further in advance than others. So, I didnt have enough 
evidence to say that the availability of the resorts had been a misrepresentation.
Breach of Contract
Mr S said that, in the future, it was anticipated that a number of the holiday resorts would be 
sold due to the structure of the suppliers fractional holiday club. But I didnt know what the
arrangements were for any potential future sales. And, in any event, I couldnt see why the
outcome of this complaint should be determined according to a scenario that hadnt
happened yet.
Mr Ss Section140(A) claim
Mr S said that there was an unfair relationship between himself and Shawbrook. He had 
raised that there had been a pressured selling technique; that there had been less time 
provided to view the financial agreement paperwork in comparison to the time spent selling 
the product and that the terms as to charges and fees had been unclear and unfair  
breaching both the UTCCR and Timeshare Regulations.
Only a court has the power to decide whether there is an unfair relationship between Mr S 
and Shawbrook for the purpose of section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I needed to 
consider it along with what I thought a court was likely to conclude.
Mr S had complained about the selling technique that was used in 2016 and although I 
appreciated the sales pitches for this type of product could be lengthy, I thought it was also 
fair that I took into account this was Mr Ss sixth purchase of points since 2007. He wasnt a 
new customer, so I thought he knew he didnt have to say yes. I thought it was likely Mr S 
would have been aware of the sales tactics likely employed by the supplier when describing 
and selling the timeshare product.
Mr S had also complained about the associated costs and about their complexity. It was 
possible the supplier hadnt given Mr S sufficient information, in good time, on the various 
charges they could have been subject to as members in order to satisfy its regulatory 
responsibility under Regulation 12 of the Timeshare Regulations.
But even if that was the case, as Id said above, Mr S was an existing member and had been 
for several years by the time the sale in question happened. So, I thought their experience 
as members was likely to have given them enough insight into what the ongoing costs of 
membership were like, and might be like, going forward. And as they had made the decision 
to enter into the purchase agreement with that experience in mind, in the absence of a 
credible explanation from them as to why, at the time of sale, the suppliers cost disclosure 
could be said to have played a significant part in that decision, I wasnt persuaded it had.I accepted that it was possible that some of the terms governing the holiday clubs ongoing 
costs, the Suppliers remedies if they werent paid and a members right of withdrawal may 
go against the requirements of the UTCCR. But I didnt think I needed to decide that point 
here because, given the particular circumstances of this complaint, even if the terms in 
question had been unfair under the UTCCR, I found it was unlikely that they had led to any 
unfairness in the relationship between Mr S and Shawbrook for the purpose of Section 140A.
I said this because, despite Mr Ss lengthy submissions on the subject, I couldnt see that
the terms in question had actually operated unfairly against Mr S during his time as a 
member after the sale in question. Whats more, the Supplier had (as I understood it) given 
Shawbrook an undertaking that consumers with complaints at the Financial Ombudsman 
Service who are still European Collection members could choose to relinquish their 
membership without having to pay any of their outstanding annual management charges (if 
there are any) and without prejudice to their ongoing complaint. With that being the case, 
even if the terms criticised by Mr S were unfair under the UTCCR, in the absence of 
evidence that the terms in question had been operated unfairly against Mr S in practice, the 
suppliers undertaking would seem to me to go a long way to mitigating if not resolving the 
unfairness that the terms might otherwise have led to.
Mr S had raised the issue of commission in relation to this transaction. But I didnt think the 
fact that Shawbrook might have paid the supplier commission had been incompatible with its 
role in the transaction. The supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mr S but as the supplier of 
contractual rights he had obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation to the 
loan, based on what Id seen so far, it didnt look like it was the suppliers role to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr S advice or information on that 
basis. Whats more, as I understood it, the typical amounts of commission paid by 
Shawbrook to suppliers (like the supplier in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 
10%.1 And on that basis, I wasnt persuaded it was likely that a court would find that the non-
disclosure and payment of commission created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
Section 140A given the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said that the benefits of the membership were overstated and that the same holiday 
accommodation could have been purchased for a lower price and without the charges 
incurred via the membership. But again, I hadnt seen enough evidence that the benefits 
from Mr Ss level of membership werent available for him to use. And Id seen that Mr S had 
made use of his membership over the years and I couldnt therefore reasonably say the 
holiday product had been unsuitable for him. 
Overall, therefore, on balance, I wasnt persuaded that there was sufficient evidence to show 
that it would be likely a court would find there had been an unfair relationship as set out in s 
140A. 
Mr Ss complaint about affordability checks
Mr S said Shawbrook had failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to him. Even 
if I were to conclude that Shawbrook or its agents hadnt carried out the proper checks for 
creditworthiness and affordability when arranging a loan for Mr S, I would still need to have 
1 Shawbrook provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with information that confirms that the typical amounts of commission 
paid by it was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And I accept that information in confidence. But, in keeping with DISP 3.5.9 
[R], one of Shawbrooks Managing Directors (who is responsible for Shawbrooks consumer lending products (including 
timeshares) and registered with the Financial Conduct Authority) confirms, in summary, that according to the records 
Shawbrook is still able to access:
1. The average commission amounts paid by Shawbrook to timeshare providers ranged from 0% (i.e., no commission was paid) to 4.6%. 
2. The maximum commission rate paid was 10.25%.been satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for him and/or that he lost out as a result, in 
order to uphold this part of his complaint. I hadnt seen anything that suggested there were 
any affordability issues at the time of the loan. I also hadnt seen anything persuasive that 
the checks which had carried out were insufficient.
For the reasons set out above I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint as I didnt think 
Shawbrook had acted unfairly when considering his claim.
Shawbrook has agreed with my provisional view and Mr S hasnt asked me to reconsider 
any parts of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at any parts of my provisional decision, I 
have reviewed the evidence and the conclusions that I reached, and I havent changed my 
view.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied there isnt enough evidence to show the 
following: that the agreement had been misrepresented to Mr S; that there had been a 
breach of contract; that it would be likely a court would find there had been an unfair 
relationship as set out in s 140A or that the affordability checks had been insufficient. 
Taking this into account, I dont think Shawbrook has acted unfairly and Im not upholding Mr 
Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman