DRN-2544891
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) dealt with his request for help 
in recovering money hed sent to someone by mistake.
What happened
On 29 November 2019, Mr S accidently sent £5000 to a customer of Bank M. Mr S said that 
HSBC havent handled this matter correctly, they havent given Mr S the details of the 
person who has his money or sent him any communication in regard to this. Mr S wants 
HSBC to give him the £5000 that he incorrectly sent to the customer of Bank M. 
HSBC have said that they have made reasonable attempts to recover the money on behalf 
of Mr S. HSBC also said that Bank M were unable to return the money as the recipient has 
said that the money wasnt transferred in error. HSBC sent two versions with different 
addresses for the recipient to Mr S at a later date.     
One of our investigators here reviewed the details of this complaint and didnt uphold it. The 
investigator said that HSBC took reasonable steps to recover the funds that were accidently 
sent to a customer of Bank M. The investigator said that HSBC did send communication to 
Mr S which contained the details of the recipient.  
Mr S didnt agree with the view and said that HSBC didnt tell him about the outcome of his 
payment dispute within the 20-day time frame that is stated within the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR). The investigator replied to Mr S and said that HSBC had given 
him the outcome. Mr S said that he didnt receive the letter dated 2 January 2020. And he 
didnt receive any information from HSBC in regard to taking this matter further. So, this 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer makes a mistake with a payment, the PSR make some relevant 
provisions, though these dont extend to making the sending bank liable for the error. The 
PSR does expect the sending bank to make reasonable efforts to recover the funds. The 
bank must on receipt of a written request, provide the payer all relevant information 
(including that obtained from the payees bank) to enable them to claim repayment. 
In addition to the PSR, there is commonly agreed industry practice that sets out the 
approach banks should follow  including suitable timescales  when dealing with a 
customer request for assistance following a mistaken payment. Among other things, this 
helps to ensure queries are progressed promptly. 
From the information that Ive seen, I can see that Mr S notified HSBC of the incorrect 
transfer on 6 December 2019. Ive also seen screenshots that HSBC processed a payment 
recall on 10 December 2019. Im therefore satisfied that HSBC contacted Bank M within the 
two working day period set out in the recovery process. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter dated 2 January 2020 that HSBC sent to Mr S. Noting what 
hes said about this, Im satisfied Mr S received the letter, as he mentions it in his email of 15 
January to Bank M. Within the letter, HSBC explained that Bank M was unable to return the 
funds as the recipient had disputed the error. HSBC responded to Mr S 16 working days 
after his request, which is within the 20-working day timeframe specified in the recovery 
process.
Mr S has said that HSBC didnt respond to his letter dated 20 January 2020. Within the letter 
Mr S has asked HSBC to provide him with the details of the person to whom the funds were 
transferred. I can see that HSBC sent Mr S an email on 7 February, with a further 
communication on 19 February, giving a different address for the recipient. Its not clear to 
me why Mr S didnt receive the banks email, or why there was a difference in the recipient 
details. However, Ive no reason to think that HSBC has failed to provide Mr S with the 
information it obtained from Bank M about the recipient, or that the time it took to do so has 
caused any material disadvantage to Mr S. 
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC have acted in a fair and reasonable manner. I consider 
HSBC have followed the correct procedures and have kept Mr S informed in regard to his 
options of pursuing this matter further. I understand that Mr S will be disappointed by this 
outcome, but I dont think HSBC need to do anything more here. As the recipient has 
disputed the transfer of funds, Mr S may want to seek independent legal advice.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman