DRN-3714034
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr M holds with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). 
He believes RBS has consistently undervalued his property, resulting in him being charged a 
higher interest rate than he considers fair. Hes also unhappy that RBS refused him a 
payment holiday during the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The above summary is in my own words. The broad circumstances of this complaint are 
known to Mr M and RBS. Im also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to 
the complaint, which has been shared with both parties, and so I dont need to repeat the 
details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr M being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
A fellow ombudsman issued a jurisdiction decision earlier this year confirming that we had 
no power to consider the payment holiday element of the complaint, and that our power to 
consider the valuation/interest rate element was confined to what has happened since 
April 2014. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We revisit matters of jurisdiction at every stage of a complaint, so for completeness, I have 
reviewed my ombudsman colleagues decision. Having done so, I agree with him entirely 
that the only aspect of this complaint that I can decide is the valuation/interest rate element 
from April 2014 onwards.
Like many lenders, RBS charges different interest rates, depending on what loan-to-value 
(LTV) band their borrowers mortgages fall into. It can do that; its a matter of commercial 
judgement and not something I should interfere with. 
At the start of a mortgage, a lender typically has a contemporaneous valuation from a 
suitably-qualified valuer to rely on. But subsequent to that, most lenders (RBS included) use 
a desk valuation; that is, a figure arrived at by applying one or other of different tools (that 
might be an internal algorithm or a recognised house price index) to the last-known actual 
valuation. 
Here, Mr M claims that the tool RBS uses in such situations was flawed, and therefore 
produced under valuations over time. However, thats not something I can assess in a 
decision on an individual complaint; it doesnt fall within my remit. Its a regulatory matter and 
Mr M would need to raise his concerns about the mechanism RBS uses with the FCA. My 
role here is to decide if RBS treated Mr M fairly in the way it updated his loan to value ratio 
(LTV) over the years since April 2014, and by extension, with regard to the interest rates it 
charged him as a result. 
Mr M argues RBS should have made clear in the original mortgage agreement what 
mechanism it would use for updating the valuation. However, the original agreement was 
entered into many years before April 2014, so it doesnt fall within my remit to address that 
point.
Confining myself to events post April 2014, as I must, RBSs valuation updates have 
produced lower figures than Mr M believes his house was (and is) worth. Thats not an 
uncommon situation and if a borrower complains, Id expect a reasonable lender to offer 
them the option of having a new contemporaneous valuation from a suitably-qualified valuer. 
If that happens, the borrower would be expected to bear the cost of that valuation.
Nothing in the evidence Ive been presented with to review by the parties gives me any 
reason to conclude that Mr M ever challenged the valuation before 2020. That being the 
case, I cant know, and wont speculate on, what the outcome of a new contemporaneous 
valuation would have been if it had been conducted at any stage between April 2014 and 
2020. 
When Mr M did eventually complain, in 2020, he didnt ask RBS to commission a new 
contemporaneous valuation. He commissioned his own, which he says demonstrates that 
his house is worth a lot more than the updated valuation RBS has used and continues to 
use. So Ive next considered whether RBS should fairly be required to adopt the valuation 
Mr M commissioned; currently, retrospectively, or both. Mr M argues that doing this would 
make it easier for him to repay the capital debt. However, after having given the point very 
careful consideration, Im not persuaded RBS must do that. Ill explain why, dealing with the 
retrospectivity first.
The new valuation is a snapshot of what the valuer considered the property to be worth at a 
particular moment in time; that moment being October 2020. I dont consider it appropriate 
that RBS should have to extrapolate any data on what the property was worth in the six and 
half years before then. That would in effect mean taking what the valuation does say and 
from that inferring what it does not. 
As to the current and future position, a key issue here is that Mr Ms mortgage term expired 
in 2017. Thats when he was required, under the terms of the contract into which he entered 
of his own volition at the outset, to repay the balance in full. Insofar as he didnt so, that 
placed Mr M in breach of contract.
Initially RBS has granted him a one-year extension to the contract, but when he didnt repay 
the mortgage in 2018, RBS wasnt willing to extend the term a second time. That placed 
Mr M in breach of contract again, where he remains. RBS has thus far not sought to pursue 
him for that breach, but in the wider circumstances, I dont think fairness requires RBS to change the LTV  and as a consequence the interest rate being charged  on a mortgage 
that is four years overdue for repayment.
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, theres no grounds 
for me to find that RBS should, either retrospectively, currently or in future, apply a different 
LTV to Mr Ms mortgage and charge a lower interest rate as a result.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman