DRN-2224855
The complaint
Mr T says Novaloans Ltd, trading as cash4unow (cash4unow), irresponsibly lent to him.   
Mr T says the lending was unaffordable for him as he had to borrow further to make the loan 
repayments. He says his debt problem was getting worse. 
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans cash4unow provided to Mr T between October 
2017 and November 2018. Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 04/10/2017 22/12/2017 3 £400.00 £194.23
2 27/12/2017 27/04/2018 4 £400.00 £167.66
3 22/05/2018 23/08/2018 3 £400.00 £207.10
4 28/08/2018 29/10/2018 4 £250.00 £106.11
5 13/11/2018 outstanding 6 £800.00 £243.43
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought the loans from loan two 
onwards shouldnt have been given as based on the information cash4unow had obtained, 
proportionate checks would have most likely shown Mr T was having problems managing his 
money as he was using other short-term credit providers. 
cash4unow disagreed with the adjudicator. It didnt agree with the number of other short-
term loans Mr T had. It said the amount Mr T owed to other lenders had reduced and by loan 
two he was accessing the product less frequently. cash4unow didnt agree this showed Mr T 
was having problems managing his money. 
Our adjudicator reiterated their opinion that the information cash4unow obtained should have 
prompted it to complete further checks about Mr Ts financial circumstances. If it had done 
so it would have seen Mr T was using multiple other short-term credit facilities. 
cash4unow further disagreed with the adjudicator. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr T didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. Because 
of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making 
a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship Mr T had 
with cash4unow. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
cash4unow has told us about the checks it made before it agreed to lend to Mr T. These 
included looking at his employment details, income and outgoings as well as credit reference 
agency checks. It has given us a copy of those checks. It doesnt think there is anything in 
the credit reference agency report that should have given it cause for concern about Mr Ts 
financial circumstances. But I disagree. I think the information it had gathered should have caused it to look further 
into Mr Ts financial situation. I say this because short-term lending was clear from the credit 
reference agency report cash4unow had received. It showed that Mr T had opened nine 
short-term loans in the last six months and four in the last three months. So, I think 
cash4unow should have looked to clarify the information either it had obtained or the 
information that Mr T had already given it about his financial circumstances. It could have 
done this by asking for copies of Mr Ts salary slips, bills or bank statements as examples.
If it had done so I think it would have clearly seen that Mr t was having problems managing 
his money. Mr T has been able to give us copies of his bank statements from before and at 
the time of lending from cash4unow. They make it clear that in the previous month Mr T had 
made payments to at least five other short-term lenders and the amount repaid was 
significantly more than the amount reflected in the credit reference agency report cash4unow 
obtained. 
cash4unow has said that the data it received from the credit reference agencies is different 
to what Mr T would have seen in his own credit file. I accept this point, but I maintain that its 
clear there was usage of other short-term credit providers and despite loan two being taken 
relatively early in the borrowing relationship, cash4unow should have carried out further 
checks than it did. And if it had done it wouldve seen this further debt. 
And I also note that Mr T returned for loan two only days after loan one was repaid. The 
amount being borrowed was the same, but the term of the agreement had extended to four 
months rather than three months at loan one. So, while the monthly repayment may have 
been lower Mr T would be repaying more overall. 
So overall, I think there was sufficient information obtained by cash4unow for it to have 
looked to build a bigger picture about Mr Ts finances. If it had it would have concluded that it 
wasnt right to carry on lending to Mr T for loan two and onwards as it was unlikely he would 
be able to sustainably repay loan two and any subsequent lending. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan two and onwards and cash4unow should put 
things right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ts loan has been transferred to a third party 
cash4unow should buy the loan back if it can. If cash4unow cant buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr T as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr T having made overpayments then cash4unow should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. cash4unow should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr T. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then cash4unow should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr T. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to loans 
two to five. 
                                                                                                                               
* HM Revenue & Customs requires cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. cash4unow 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr T still has an outstanding balance due, then cash4unow should 
try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr T in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind cash4unow of its obligation to treat Mr T fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint. Novaloans Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman