DRN-3684501
The complaint
Mr E complains about the redress from  Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax in 
relation to an issue with a car partly purchased by credit card. He would like further 
compensation than BoS has agreed to pay.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I understand  BoS has already refunded the cost of a report it asked Mr E to get 
when he complained that a car he purchased was not as advertised. And paid him  
£75 compensation for giving him wrong information. I think BoS were right to do this. 
There was no need for a report to confirm the issues  Mr E complained of  only one 
charging cable and misleading information on the MOT and servicing history.. 
The report found various issues which would cost around £3000 to make good. 
Given the car Mr E bought was a used one its not unexpected that there might be 
some wear and tear issues. Unfortunately, it seems BoS gave Mr E the expectation it 
would cover part of the repair costs which was not the case .We wouldnt expect , 
under a Section 75 claim, such a refund to be made. The issues in the report dont 
relate to what was advertised and dont make the car of unsatisfactory quality . Mr E 
initially wanted a partial refund of these costs, but I dont think this is reasonable. I  
think the £75 BoS paid Mr E for misleading him on this is reasonable as it  gave him 
a false expectation of getting some of the repair costs in the report refunded.
BoS has accepted our investigators view that it should cover the cost of the missing 
cable. I think that is reasonable as the advertisement specified two cables.
Mr E has additionally asked for compensation for the few days he was without the car 
whilst it was being inspected, and for the fact it was advertised with a new MOT and 
a recent service, when both  were completed some months before Mr E got the car. 
Our investigator recommended BoS pay a further £100 compensation to cover these 
issues which BoS has agreed to do. I do think there was some inconvenience for Mr 
E in being without a car for a short time  but he hasnt evidenced any actual costs 
such a hire car that I could consider. In terms of the MOT and service Mr E could 
have checked these before he bought the car. He also didnt want to take up BoSs 
original offer to return the car which I think he would have done had the MOT and 
service been of such a concern. The car did have a valid MOT and a relatively recent 
service and I have no evidence either the timing of these have led to any specific 
financial cost for Mr E. Taking all the issues into account  I think the additional 
compensation of £100 that BoS has agreed to pay is sufficient to cover the distress 
and inconvenience to Mr E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
In full and final settlement Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should :-
On proof of purchase, refund Mr E the cost of an additional charger suitable for public 
charging
Pay Mr E an additional £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman