DRN-1683496
The complaint
Mr H complains that a scooter that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement 
with FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a new scooter was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance that he electronically signed in September 2018; 
there were some issues with the scooter which were dealt with by the dealer but 
Mr H complained to MotoNovo Finance about the scooter in June 2019  it arranged 
for the scooter to be inspected by an independent expert in July 2019;
the inspection report recorded that the scooters mileage was 1,967 miles and 
concluded that: the repairs have been completed in an acceptable manner; there 
were no outstanding faults and the corrosion reported was due to weathering but 
wasnt considered to be excessive;
our investigator recommended that he should be able reject the scooter and that 
MotoNovo Finance should: refund Mr Hs deposit (with interest) and monthly 
payments to reflect his usage of the scooter; and that it should pay him £100 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience; 
Mr H says that he stopped using the scooter in January 2020 and he voluntarily 
terminated his agreement and the scooter has been returned so another investigator 
considered his complaint and recommended that MotoNovo Finance should refund 
his deposit, with interest, but she explained why she didnt consider that it should 
refund any monthly payments but she said that it should increase the other 
compensation by £100 because of his loss of enjoyment of the scooter; 
Mr H says that he was unable to use the scooter for a significant period of time and 
incurred public transport costs and was caused a loss of enjoyment  MotoNovo 
Finance says that Mr H didnt complain to it until more than six months after the 
scooter had been supplied to him, he accepted repairs from the dealer for the faults 
with the bike and an independent expert has confirmed that there were no 
outstanding faults; 
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the scooter, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the scooter and 
the price that was paid for it; 
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the scooter must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how 
long that time is will also depend on a number of factors; 
the scooter that was supplied to Mr H was a new scooter with a price of £2,573 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects; 
its clear that there were faults with the scooter which started soon after it was 
supplied to him and include issues with the exhaust cover, seat, engine, front 
mudguard steering bearings, fuel injector, a wheel nut and corrosion  and most of 
those faults were dealt with by the dealer and the independent expert has said that 
there are no outstanding faults with the scooter; 
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a new scooter to have so many issues 
so soon after being supplied and I consider it to be more likely than not that the 
scooter that was supplied to Mr H wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for him to 
expect it to be - and for that reason I consider that it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to him; 
Mr H has returned the scooter and voluntarily terminated the agreement but I 
consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to have 
allowed him to reject the scooter so I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
refund to Mr H the deposit of £200 that he paid for the scooter, with interest; 
Mr H has said that the he used the scooter to drive for 3,789 miles between 
September 2018 and January 2020 and that the bike was insured on the basis of 
3,000 miles each year  its clear that Mr H wasnt able to use the scooter for some of 
that time because of the issues with it but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the total mileage for which he would have used it has been 
significantly impacted by the issues with it  so I agree with the investigator that it 
would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay him £100 to compensate 
him for his loss of use and enjoyment of the scooter; 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances to 
require MotoNovo Finance to refund to Mr H any of the monthly payments that he 
made under the agreement or to reimburse him for any other costs; and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr H and I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay him £100 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr H paid a cash deposit of £200 for the scooter. I
find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for MotoNovo Finance to
refund that deposit to Mr H, with interest.
The issues with the scooter have impacted Mr Hs use and enjoyment of the scooter. I find
that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay him £100 to compensate
him for that loss of use and enjoyment. 
These events have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr H. I find that it would also be
fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay him £100 to compensate him for that
distress and inconvenience. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and I order FirstRand Bank Limited,
trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1. Refund to Mr H the deposit of £200 that he paid for the scooter.
2. Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
3. Pay £100 to Mr H to compensate him for the loss of use and enjoyment of the 
scooter.
4. Pay £100 to Mr H to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 2 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mr H a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman