DRN-4139079
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited, who Ill call MBFS.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr M, I dont think MBFS have been
unreasonable here and Im not asking them to take any action. Ill explain why.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr M responsible for keeping the car in good
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct
condition.
The process
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
Here they have decided to complete two inspections; the second inspection was completed
when Mr M wasnt present.
MBFS arent members of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA), the
organisation that provide the industry guidelines on what is considered fair wear and tear
when a car is returned at the end of a lease. But I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to
be mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present
when vehicles are collected. It says that all readily apparent damage and wear will be
documented when the vehicle is collected, and the driver will be given an opportunity to
agree with the condition report.
Mr M was given an opportunity to attend the first inspection, and to agree to the condition
report, but that initial inspection didnt identify all of the damage that was noted during the
second inspection.
He wasnt given an opportunity to attend the second inspection and Ive therefore thought
about whether this disadvantaged him and whether the results would have been different
had he been present. I dont think they would have been as I think the inspector has clearly
evidenced the damage that was present and the gap between the first and second
inspection was only a few days.
The inspectors independence
Mr M says the company MBFS used to inspect the car were not independent and should
have been. MBFS used a company that many of their competitors also use, to inspect cars
when they are returned at the end of their lease period. They are independent of MBFS but,
regardless of their independence I think, as Ive explained above, that the photographic
evidence is sufficient for MBFS to have considered whether damage exceeded the fair wear
and tear guidance. So, I dont think Mr M has been disadvantaged by MBFSs choice of
inspection company.
Was it fair to apply charges if the damage wasnt going to be repaired?
The BVRLA guidance that I think MBFS needed to be mindful of says:
Charges can still be applied at the end of the lease in cases where the leasing company
decides for commercial reasons not to repair the damage
So, I dont think MBFS were unreasonable to apply charges where they could evidence
damage was beyond normal wear and tear. Those charges would compensate them for any
reduction in sales value they would be likely to incur as a result of that damage.
Insurance claim
It was for Mr M to decide whether to raise a claim with his insurer for the damage. As Im
persuaded the damage was there before the inspections took place it was possible for Mr M
to raise that claim before he returned the car. Im not persuaded that MBFSs inspection
processes denied him that opportunity, or that he was in any way disadvantaged by that
inspection.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own Vehicle Return Standard (VRS) and although MBFS arent members
of the BVRLA I think its only fair to consider that standard in tandem with the VRS when
considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be considered to be beyond
normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Damage charges that I think are merited
Bonnet dented £260.00
The VRS says the dent is acceptable if less than 13mm and the BVRLA is a little more
lenient. It suggests dents up to 15mm are reasonable as long as the paint surface isnt
broken.
The inspectors photograph shows the dent to be in excess of both standards and paint has
also chipped off. I think MBFS have therefore been reasonable when making a charge for it.Bumper front centre chrome moulding excessive damage £155.00
The VRS says:
Discoloured, loose, cracked, distorted, gouged or split bumpers and mouldings that require
replacement, plastic welding or painting are not acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance says:
scratches of less than 25mm are acceptable provided the moulding is not broken,
cracked or deformed.
The photographs show a scratch to the chrome moulding that looks a little over 25mm in
length.
Im persuaded that MBFS were therefore reasonable to levy a charge.
Bumper front scratched £210.00
The BVRLA guidelines state:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one
panel is acceptable.
And the VRS says:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or has
caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is not acceptable.
Theres extensive scratching on this panel, well in excess of either of the standards. The
charge has therefore been reasonably made.
Mr M says the damage wasnt visible in first inspection. There are no photographs that would
show the area in sufficient detail, but Im persuaded, on balance, the damage was more
likely to have been present during the first inspection than to have been created in the very
limited time between the first and second inspections.
Door right hand rear non-professional repair £210.00
The VRS says:
We cant accept any repairs that dont match the original finish and specification.
And
Paintwork chips caused by general use, as long as they dont reach the base coat, expose
the bare metal or show signs of corrosion are acceptable. Discolouration and corrosion are
not acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance says:
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint
contamination, rippled finish, or poorly matched paint not acceptableThe photographs show that the paintwork is rippled and there appears to be a discoloured
poor repair on the door.
I think the damage is in excess of the relevant standards and a charge has therefore been
fairly made.
Number plate front broken £15.00
I cant see that the VRS specifically refers to the number plate, but the BVRLA guidance
says:
The vehicles number plate should be intact
The number plate is cracked, and having reviewed the first inspection video, I think that
crack is also visible at around 10 seconds in. I think a charge has therefore been reasonably
applied.
Wheel left hand front and right hand front rim damage £110 each
The VRS says:
Damage greater than 50 millimetres to the rim, or any damage to the wheel spokes, fascia
or hub of the alloy wheels are not acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance says:
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are
acceptable.
Both rims show scuffing in excess of 50mm, and charges have therefore been reasonably
made.
Damage charges that I dont think are merited
Bumper moulding rear scuffed (unpainted) £50.40
The VRS says:
Small scuffmarks are okay, if they dont affect the overall appearance of your car. But, on
the bumpers, these must be smaller than 75 millimetres.
The BVRLA guidance says:
scuffs or scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable
The unpainted moulding has some light scuffing thats no more than 20mm long.
Thats well within the MBFSs own standard and also acceptable under the BVRLA standard.
I dont think MBFS have therefore been fair to make a charge for this damage and they
should remove it.
Parking sensor rear scratched £64.00
MBFS rely on a section of the VRS that says:Body panel misalignment not consistent with manufacturer's finish is not acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance explains that parking sensors should be working and that scuffs or
scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable.
I havent seen evidence that the parking sensor wasnt working, and I dont think the section
of the VRS that MBFS rely on can fairly be attributed to this damage as theres no bodywork
misalignment. The scuffing shown in the inspectors photographs is very minimal and not
more than 25mm, and I dont think there are photographs or video evidence, in the first
inspection report, that show this area in sufficient detail. I dont think a charge has therefore
been fairly applied, and I think MBFS should remove it.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to partially uphold this complaint and to tell Mercedes-Benz Financial Services
UK Limited to revise the final invoice, removing the charges they have made for damage to
the bumper moulding rear scuffed (unpainted) £50.40 and parking sensor rear scratched
£64.00.
Comments from the parties and my thoughts on those comments
MBFS accepted my provisional decision, but Mr M still didnt think it was fair. His detailed 
response ran to several pages. It isnt practical to list all of those comments here but I have 
considered them all. Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Mr M said, The penalty clause which allows Mercedes to unilaterally specify a loss to 
themselves out of proportion to the actual loss they might suffer is, I believe, an unfair term 
of contract and unenforceable in law. Im not persuaded it was unfair for MBFS to recover 
costs even if that hadnt incurred them. I say that because the industry guidance provided by 
the BVRLA says it isnt and I dont think it would be right to penalise MBFS for following that 
guidance.
Mr H said he didnt know the first inspectors true purpose and if he had he would have 
shadowed him. As Ive explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr M was 
disadvantaged by that as I think it likely the damage Ive listed was present at that time.
With regard to the front number plate Mr M said he failed to see how it could be missed in 
the first inspection but identified in the second. Ive explained in my provisional decision that 
I think there is evidence of damage in both inspections.
Mr M suggested that MBFS were double counting (the) scratch and chrome moulding but I 
think theyre two distinct units and that MBFS were entitled to do that. I dont agree that the 
photographs dont evidence that damage.
Mr M also disputed the rippling of the paintwork on the rear door, but I stand by my 
provisional decision on that damage and for the same reasons. 
Mr M asked me to look at other cases that he said were reported on the internet, where 
overcharging was endemic in cases concerning returned lease cars. Im considering the 
merits of his complaint here and I dont think it would be reasonable to consider other issues, 
with other vehicles.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Ms response, I havent found any reason to change my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to revise the final invoice, removing the charges they have 
made for damage to the bumper moulding rear scuffed (unpainted) £50.40 and parking 
sensor rear scratched £64.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman