DRN-2079489
The complaint
Mr O says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr O bought the policy in connection with a credit card he took out in 1990. Lloyds cant say 
for sure how the policy was sold, or whether the PPI was added to the account at the same 
time as Mr O applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr O applied for his credit card in 1990 and its possible that he bought PPI at the 
same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the case, or how the policy was 
sold.
Lloyds assessed Mr Os complaint as though the PPI had been sold in one of its 
branches. For the purpose of the assessment, this wouldve been the most 
favourable type of sale for Mr O.
Mr O said he was working overseas when he applied for the credit card, so he 
couldnt have bought the PPI at a Lloyds branch. Ive noted everything Mr O has 
said. Im aware he considers it unacceptable that Lloyds cant provide documentary 
evidence that he bought the policy.
But Im mindful that these events took place thirty years ago. I dont consider it would 
be fair or reasonable to expect Lloyds to have retained the account opening 
documentation for that length of time. 
Given the amount of time thats passed Im also mindful that exact recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
I accept that Mr Os circumstances meant it was unlikely he bought the PPI in a 
Lloyds branch. But in the absence of any evidence of how the policy was sold, Im 
satisfied that its reasonable for Lloyds to assess the complaint as though the sale 
took place in a branch. Lloyds wouldve advised Mr O to buy the policy if it had been 
sold in branch, which meant its obligations in connection with the sale were greater.
Im aware Mr O considers the absence of any evidence means Lloyds cant prove he  
bought the policy. Its not unusual to see cases where there is little documentary 
evidence, particularly for policies that were sold many years ago. As Ive said above, 
where the evidence is incomplete, I have to reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities.
In this case, on balance I think its unlikely Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mr Os 
account if he hadnt agreed to buy it. So I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say 
that Lloyds didnt make Mr O aware of the PPI or that he had a choice about buying 
it.
Lloyds is prepared to accept that as a branch sale it wouldve recommended the PPI 
to Mr O - which means it wouldve advised him to buy it. 
But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr O has said he was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer if he was off work because of sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to his employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr O could use his employer benefits to 
pay for other expenses. So I think he wouldve had some use for the policy, despite 
his existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr O would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
Which means Lloyds does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr O that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman