DRN-2907843
The complaint
Miss C complains that a loan agreed for her by TFS Loans Limited was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In August 2017, Miss C applied for a loan with TFS to repay another loan with a different 
provider and buy a new car. The loan agreed was for £5,000 to be repaid in 60 monthly 
instalments of £195.46. At the time of the application, Miss C and her partner were working 
and splitting the bills. Subsequently, Miss Cs partner has been in and out of work, is now on 
benefits, and theyve had a baby. She feels TFS should have ensured she could cover the 
loan repayments on her income alone. Miss C has TFS gave her the loan without thorough 
enough to checks to ensure she could afford it.
TFS didnt uphold her complaint. It said it spoke to her to understand her income and 
expenditure and searched her credit file. Having done so, it calculated she had a disposable 
income of over £250 per month after her normal expenditure and payments to this loan were 
made. Her credit file gave TFS no cause for concern. Overall TFS felt it the loan was 
affordable for Miss C at the time.
Miss C didnt agree so she referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
it. He felt the checks TFS carried out were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances and didnt uphold the complaint.
TFS accepted what our investigator said, but Miss C didnt. She said her situation has 
worsened after the loan was taken, so she believes the loan was unsuitable for her. As there 
was no agreement, Miss Cs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
TFS needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Miss C irresponsibly by. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way?
TFS had to satisfy itself that Miss C would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not 
about TFS assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the 
loan repayments on her. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the 
potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss C doesnt alter or lessen the 
obligation.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and did it make a fair lending 
decision?
As part of the application process, TFS asked Miss C for details of her income and 
expenditure. She told them she earned £1,300 per month and was responsible for half of the 
household bills as she lived with her partner.
She initially applied for a loan £8,000 but, after considering her income and expenditure and 
checking her credit file, TFS wasnt prepared to lend her that amount on her own. It 
suggested it may be prepared to do so if her partner agreed to be a joint borrower. Miss C 
explored that with her partner, but unfortunately as he was unable to provide suitable proof 
of his employment (hed only been with his employer a short time).
TFS said that it was prepared to lend Miss C £5,000 on her own based on the details shed 
given and that it had gathered itself. Those details showed she had a disposable income of 
around £250 after payments to the new loan was accounted for. Her credit file showed her 
existing commitments were up to date and this new loan would repay another to which she 
was currently paying £146 per month.
The fact that TFS said it wasnt prepared to lend £8,000 to Miss C on her own, shows that it 
had considered the information shed provided. Her credit file showed no particular financial 
issues and her outgoings would be increasing by around £50 which, on the face of it, didnt 
appear to be unreasonable. 
Ive listened to the call when TFS explained to Miss C that it was only prepared to lend her 
£5,000 and would have to pay the old loan off direct. She was obviously disappointed. But 
most of her disappointment appeared to stem from what shed have to tell her guarantor 
rather than the amount she could borrow. The advisor suggested she should take the time to 
think it through and speak to her guarantor. She asked what the repayments would be on 
£5,000 and was told £195.46. Miss C said that would still make things cheaper for her in 
long run so shed think about it and call back.Having taken the time to consider things as discuss it with her guarantor, Miss C called back 
and accepted the £5,000 offer. As agreed, TFS repaid the other loan and passed on the 
remaining money to Miss C via her guarantor.
I think the checks made by TFS in this instance were reasonable and proportionate. It 
refused to lend the amounts Miss C wanted to borrow because it felt she couldnt afford it 
one her own. But the loan finally advanced was a relatively small increase in payments 
which both TFS and Miss C were confident she could afford. I dont think TFS treated her 
unfairly in agreeing to lend to her.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Miss C in some other way.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss C as shes said her financial 
situation since the loan have worsened. But much of what shes described were changes in 
circumstances after the loan was drawn  things which I dont think were foreseeable to 
either TFS or Miss C. Im sorry for the situation Miss C now finds herself in, but I dont think 
TFS acted incorrectly or unfairly in agreeing to lend to her for the reasons Ive set out above. 
I would encourage Miss C to work with TFS to try to find a mutually agreeable repayment 
plan and Id remind TFS of its obligation to treat her fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman