DRN-3098807
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly arranged an unaffordable loan for 
him. He says proper affordability checks would have shown the repayments to be high and 
more than he could afford. 
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr W being provided 
with a loan in February 2016. The loan was for £8,000.00, had an APR of 16.86% and a 36-
month term. This meant that the total amount repayable of £10,458.11, which included 
interest, fees and charges of £2,458.11, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
just over £290.
Mr Ws complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Zopa ought to 
have seen that Mr W wasnt in a position to repay this loan at the time it arranged it. So she 
upheld Mr Ws complaint. Zopa disagreed with our investigators view. As Zopa disagreed, 
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ws complaint. These two 
questions are:
These two overarching questions are:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Mr W would be able to meet his obligations under the P2P agreement in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would be 
able to meet his obligations under the P2P agreement in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought about this P2P 
agreement with Mr W required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether he 
could afford to make his repayments. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice this 
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr W 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to 
simply think about the likelihood of Mr W making payments, it had to consider the impact of 
loan repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Zopa has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W before 
arranging this loan. It also obtained copies of payslips as and carried out a credit check to work out what Mr Ws existing credit commitments were too. However, Im mindful that any 
credit check carried out is likely to have shown that Mr W had a significant amount of 
existing debt and that he was paying a significant amount in overdraft fees because he was 
overdrawn. 
Given any information obtained is likely to have shown the extent of Mr Ws existing 
indebtedness, I would have expected Zopa to have taken further steps to verify Mr Ws 
expenditure to ensure he had the necessary funds to repay the loan it was arranging. After 
all Mr Ws indebtedness didnt tally with someone ho had the level of disposable income 
Zopas checks appeared to suggest.
As Zopa proceeded with approving this loan without taking further steps to verify Mr Ws 
expenditure, Im satisfied that the checks Zopa carried out before arranging this loan werent 
reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Zopa that Mr W would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told Zopa that Mr W wouldve been unable to 
sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr W has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr W has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what Mr Ws bank statements say as an indication of what his financial circumstances 
were more likely than not to have been at the time. To be clear, Ive not looked at Mr Ws 
bank statements because I think that Zopa ought to have obtained them before arranging 
this loan for him. And Im certainly not saying that bank statements always need to be 
obtained before a loan is provided. Ive simply consulted Mr Ws bank statements here 
because they were readily available at this stage and they contain the information I now 
need to reconstruct the proportionate check Zopa should have but failed to carry out.
Its also important to note that Zopa was required to establish whether Mr W could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I say this because Zopa has said that 
the loan was affordable because Mr W did make his payments and he managed to repay his 
loan.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.Having done so, its clear Mr W was struggling under the weight of his existing debts and a 
significant proportion of his income was going to repaying existing creditors. Furthermore, 
while theres some suggestion the purpose of this loan might have been debt consolidation 
there is no indication of which debts Mr W was going to consolidate. And its unclear to me 
how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve 
Mr Ws financial position. Indeed, the information Ive seen suggests the opposite happened 
and that Mr W in fact ended up taking out a string of payday loans and that is what led to him 
making the payments to his Zopa loan.
Given all of this, it is apparent to me that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to repay these 
loans without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, 
in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted Zopa to the fact that Mr W would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other 
way.  
So I find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.  
Did Mr W lose out as a result of Zopa unfairly and unreasonably bringing about his loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Ws indebtedness as it led to her 
to being given additional credit he couldnt afford to repay. The monthly payments, which 
also included interest and charges took up a portion of Mr Ws income at a time where he 
was already struggling. And as Ive mentioned, the information Ive seen clearly shows that 
Mr W resorted to taking out payday loans to try and keep up with the repayments on this 
loan.
So I find that Mr W did suffer significant adverse consequences and as a result lost out 
because Zopa unfairly arranged this loan.
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Zopa to put things right for 
Mr W in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr W paid on his loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest, fees, and charges from 
the date they were paid by Mr W to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Zopa Limited should put 
things right for Mr W in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman