DRN-4070506
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a holiday club product and the credit facility used to 
pay for it. The facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades 
as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mrs M is represented by a 
claims management business, which Ill refer to as P.
What happened
The complaint is about a purchase made in March 2010 from a supplier I will call D. P has 
supplied a collection of documents regarding a number of purchases made by Mrs M and 
her husband both before and after the one which is the subject of the complaint. The factual 
background is less than clear, but I have noted at least four loans were taken out between 
February 2005 and June 2011. One of these was from another lender.
The purchase made in March 2010 was of 5,000 points at a cost of £8,240. A loan of 
£14,624 was obtained to fund it and this was repaid in May 2017. No explanation has been 
given why the loan was greater than the cost. I have seen some documentation from that 
purchase, but no detail of what happened or what was said at the time of purchase.
A complaint was made to BPF in March 2017. P said that there had been an unfair 
relationship and referenced s.140A Limitation Act (LA). It argued in some detail that 
commission had been paid and not disclosed to Mrs M. It considered this entitled Mrs M to 
damages, refund of interest paid and the commission paid by BPF. It added that under s.32 
LA the claim was in time. BPF responded to say that it considered the claim to be out of 
time.
P brought a complaint to this service on Mrs Ms behalf. It made the same arguments that 
commission had been paid and BPF had made a secret profit out of the loan. It said Mrs M 
had not been told of the commission payment and it had not been given details of the 
commission paid.
The matter was considered by one of our investigators who didnt consider BPF would have 
breached a duty by paying commission. Nor did he think there was evidence that the loan 
was unaffordable.
P didnt agree and said the contract and full details of the purchase were not made available 
to Mrs M until after she had committed to buy the product. It said this was in contravention of 
the 2010 Timeshare Regulations. It also said that the ongoing payments included various 
expenses which may be in excess of a proportionate cost of their points purchase. It said 
this was in breach of Regulation 5 of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCR).
It added that the documents they signed were lengthy and they had to sign to say they 
agreed to be bound by them. This also contravened the UTCCR. Finally P submitted a 
generic counsels opinion on products sold by D and the approach taken by this service. It 
did not specify which elements of this opinion it considered relevant to Mrs Ms complaint.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
It is regrettable that much of the documentation supplied by P is not relevant to the 
purchase which is the subject of this complaint. I have reviewed the 31 pages of material 
sent to BPF by P when the claim was made and there is little of that which is specific to the 
March 2010 purchase.
This complaint is made under s.140 and so I have firstly to consider if it can be applied to 
this complaint.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account. Im satisfied that the time limit within 
which Mrs M had to bring any relevant claim is six years from the date the debtor-creditor 
relationship ended.
Evidence supplied by BPF shows that the finance was settled in March 2017 and that means 
s.140 is relevant to this complaint and I can consider if there was an unfair relationship.
Commission
The main thrust of the claim made by P was that Mrs M wasnt told about commission which 
may have been paid by BPF to D. As far as Im aware, the levels of commission normally 
paid in this situation (at the relevant time) werent high enough to mean that BPF should 
have appreciated not telling Mrs M about any commission paid risked the debtor-creditor 
relationship being unfair under section 140A.
If any commission was paid (which is not certain) I think its unlikely to have been more than 
10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. And Im 
not persuaded that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of any commission 
paid in these circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the supplier was acting as 
agent to Mrs M or owed her a fiduciary duty in this situation. I dont think the suppliers role 
was to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation. And Im not persuaded it was 
required to disclose any commission (that may have been paid by BPF) to Mrs M either.
Timeshare Regulations 2010
P has said that D failed to comply with these regulations and this led to an unfair 
relationship. The contract was signed in March 2010. However the 2010 Regulations came 
into effect on 23 February 2011 and so they do not apply to this agreement. The earlier 
regulations do not cover the issues which P has raised and so I do not consider they offer 
support to the claim there was an unfair relationship.
I have considered the arguments, set out in some detail in the Counsels Submission, in 
relation to challenging the calculation of maintenance fees, the requirement for a reserve 
fund and shortfalls in maintenance fees from a previous year being recovered in a 
subsequent year. I agree there may be circumstances in which the operation of these terms 
could breach the UTCCRs. However, while parts of the contract might be unfair within the 
meaning of UTCCR, the usual effect of that is that the relevant term cannot be enforced 
against the consumer; it is not that the contract as a whole is unfair.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessmentOur rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within 
six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in March 2010. Mrs M would have known fairly soon after that date if she was 
having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the complaint should have 
been referred to this service by no later than March 2016  six years from the date Mrs M 
was given the facility. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs M may have against 
the D or BPF has expired under the LA. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think any 
claim that she might have against the supplier and/or BPF has, in part, probably exceeded 
the time limits set out in the LA and I dont think its unreasonable to take this into account.
For the reasons set out, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds 
to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mrs M unfairly or acted unreasonably 
so I cant properly require BPF to compensate her or do anything else.
I now invite the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or 
information (that I havent seen before) by the date below. After that Ill review all the 
evidence available and make my final decision.
BPF said it had nothing to add and P simply said it had submitted a full and comprehensive 
submission which showed the contract was unfair and this had been ignored.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is regrettable that P didnt feel it necessary to explain precisely why it felt its arguments 
had been ignored given the detail set out in my provisional decision. I have been given 
nothing which would allow me to reach a different conclusion and so I consider my 
provisional decision should stand.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman