DRN-3474515
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has declined to reimburse the money shes lost to 
a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mrs P has fallen victim to a safe account scam.
She received a text message asking her to click a link to pay a delivery fee for a package 
she was expecting. She followed the link and entered her payment information. Shortly 
afterwards, she received a phone call from a number which showed as HSBC on her caller 
identification. The number was the same as the one on the back of her HSBC debit card. 
The caller told her that a fraudulent payment had debited one of her HSBC accounts and 
further fraudulent payments were in progress, so she needed to act quickly to prevent any 
further loss by moving the money in all of her HSBC accounts to a safe account. Mrs P 
checked and saw that the fraudulent payment the caller had mentioned had indeed debited 
her account. She then transferred £9,200 via faster payment to the safe account details the 
caller had provided (the payment).
Unbeknown to Mrs P, a scammer had spoofed HSBCs number and was tricking her into 
moving money into their account.
Mrs P reported the fraud on 25 March 2021. HSBC contacted the receiving bank on           
26 March 2021. £3,830.11 was recovered from the beneficiary account and returned to 
Mrs P.
HSBC has declined to reimburse Mrs Ps remaining loss under the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because it says she ignored an 
effective warning it gave her during the payment journey and that she couldve done more to 
protect her account  such as, contacting HSBC on a registered number to confirm the call 
shed received was genuine.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt convinced that Mrs P had ignored 
an effective warning from HSBC, but she did think that there were several clear warning 
signs that Mrs P missed  such as the caller failing to ask her any security questions.
Mrs P said:
The number the scammer called from was the same number as the one on the back 
of her HSBC debit card, so she had no concerns or reason to believe that she wasnt 
speaking to HSBC.
The scammer didnt ask her for any personal details  such as her PIN number  so 
she wasnt alerted to the possibility of fraud.
At the time of the call, she was overcome with a dreadful feeling of fear. She had just 
sold her property and the sale proceeds were in her HSBC accounts. The scammer 
made her feel as though she was racing against the clock to protect her money.
HSBC only gave her one warning during the payment journey, and the scammer 
coached her through that.
She didnt disclose any personal details to the caller.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 5 May 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mrs P has 
fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has argued that two of 
the exceptions apply in this case. It says that Mrs P ignored an effective warning it gave 
during the payment journey and she made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief 
that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine 
goods or services and/or the person or business she was transacting with was legitimate.
HSBC hasnt provided us with a copy of the warning it says Mrs P wouldve been presented 
with during the payment journey, but from what I know of HSBCs warnings at the time, 
I think its unlikely that it wouldve been impactful enough. I dont think, for example, that it 
wouldve clearly explained that telephone numbers can be spoofed by fraudsters so they can 
pretend theyre calling from the bank. Overall, I think its doubtful that the requirements of the 
effective warning exception would be met.
If HSBC had really brought to life what a scam of the nature Mrs P fell victim to looks like 
with an effective warning  explaining, for example, how telephone numbers can be spoofed, 
that pressure will usually be applied to move money to a safe account immediately to 
prevent loss, and that victims have often clicked a link received via text message or email 
prior to receiving a call stating that fraud is occurring on their account/s. And if HSBC had 
given advice on how customers can protect themselves from this type of scam, and 
explained the potential consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment, then I think 
this wouldve been important contextual information that wouldve affected Mrs Ps decision 
making and led her to take additional steps to protect herself.
I appreciate that Mrs P couldve done more in this situation to protect herself from fraud. But 
ultimately, she was in a pressured situation, heightened by the recent sale of her property 
and the amount of money held in her accounts, and the spoofed number together with the 
fraudulent payment the caller showed her had debited her account convinced her, in the 
heat of the moment, that nothing was amiss. As HSBC doesnt appear to have made the 
scam risk clear, and the fraud was sophisticated, I dont think this is unreasonable. I note 
that HSBC has said Mrs P wouldve received a message which confirmed that the 
beneficiary name shed input matched the beneficiary account, and I think this wouldve 
reassured her.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs P had a reasonable basis for belief in this case.
Its worth mentioning that Mrs P says her husband attempted to call HSBC during the scam 
but she was unaware of his suspicions at the time she was on the call and made the 
payment, so I dont think this should make a difference to the outcome of the complaint.
Considering everything, Im persuaded that HSBC should have reimbursed the money Mrs P 
lost to this scam under the terms of the CRM Code. Im not persuaded that any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, I think that HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. Ive looked at Mrs Ps account statements in the six months leading up to the scam. I can see 
that she had been making some fairly high value payments on occasion, but the £9,200 
payment she instructed was by far the highest value, and it went to a new payee. I think it 
stands out as unusual and out of character. So, its reasonable to expect HSBC to have 
asked Mrs P some questions about the payment. Had it done so, I think the scam wouldve 
quickly unfolded and Mrs P wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
The relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented the loss, rather than just 
reimbursed Mrs P under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that HSBC should pay 
Mrs P interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund her under 
the CRM Code.
I cant know for certain what Mrs P wouldve done with the funds she lost had she not been 
defrauded. They were from the sale of her house and being held in her current account. 
Looking at her account statements, it seems likely she wouldve used the money for other 
things over time, so I think its fairest to award interest at a rate of 8% simple per year  to 
reflect the cost of being deprived of that money.
In all of the circumstances, I currently think that the fair and reasonable outcome is to uphold 
this complaint and require HSBC to refund Mrs Ps outstanding loss of £5,369.89 and pay 
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
On a final note, Im not satisfied that HSBC fulfilled its obligations under the Best Practice 
Standards for recovering a customers funds. Mrs P reported the fraud on 25 March 2021, 
but HSBC didnt notify the receiving bank immediately  it notified the receiving bank on the 
next day and £3,830.11 was recovered from the beneficiary account. Earlier notification from 
HSBC may have led to the recovery of a higher proportion of Mrs Ps funds.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided that HSBC should reimburse 
Mrs Ps outstanding loss of £5,369.89 and pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mrs P and HSBC accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and neither have provided me with 
any new information to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
reimburse Mrs Ps outstanding loss of £5,369.89 within 28 days of receiving 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman