DRN-2310606
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the valuation offered by Zenith Insurance plc following the theft 
of his motorbike. All references to Zenith include its agents. 
What happened
Mr As motorbike was stolen in April 2020. Zenith accepted his claim and referred to industry 
trade guides and online advertisements to calculate the motorbikes market value. Initially, 
on 17 April 2020, it offered Mr A £2,370. Mr A received this amount, less his policy excess, 
by cheque, on 22 April 2020. 
Mr A told Zenith this amount undervalued the motorbike. He found several motorbikes of the 
same age, make and model and the average value of those was around £3,200. He said the 
previous owner had made additions to the motorbike, including heated grips, engine bars, a 
luggage rack and a chain oiler system, and that those should be taken into account too. 
He added that he was in a difficult position as he needed to travel regularly between his own 
address and his elderly mothers. His mother was unwell and needed daily care, so hed 
been using the motorbike to shuttle back and forth. He said Zeniths offer wasnt enough to 
replace the motorbike, and that using public transport in the meantime would put him and his 
elderly mother at a higher risk of being infected with Covid-19. 
After considering Mr As submissions, Zenith increased its offer to £2,800 on 29 April 2020. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so Zenith investigated his concerns as a complaint, but said £2,800 
was its final offer. On 28 May 2020, it sent Mr A its final response letter. Mr A said he would 
accept the offer at that point as he was in need of transport and couldnt wait any longer. 
Zenith promptly paid the remaining settlement.
Our investigator thought Zeniths valuation was fair, having consulted the trade guides 
himself. He reviewed the advertised prices Mr A had sent us but felt these werent as 
persuasive as they tend to allow for negotiation. He said the additions Mr A had referred to 
hadnt been declared and therefore werent insured separately to the motorbike. And that in 
any event we dont usually find that such additions increase a motorbikes value overall.  
   
Mr A remained unhappy, so Ive been asked to make a final decision. He argued that the 
trade guides are based on historic data and therefore didnt produce a real world valuation 
that reflected the volatile circumstances which existed at the time of the theft. And that more 
individualised research of the market, such as that hed carried out, was therefore required.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In assessing Mr As complaint, my role is to consider whether the valuation Zenith has 
offered to him is fair, reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy. The terms of Mr As 
policy say the maximum amount Zenith will pay is the market value of the motorbike, which 
is defined as the cost of replacing the motorbike in the UK with one of the same make, 
model, specification, mileage and condition at the time of the loss. 
Determining the pre-accident replacement cost of a motorbike isnt an exact science. 
Our investigator has sent Mr A the relevant page from our website, which sets out that in 
order to decide if a valuation is fair, we compare it with prices in online motor trade guides. 
And where the valuation is in line with the guides, were likely to agree a valuation is fair. 
Motor trade guides are based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. They take 
advertised and auction prices, then use them to work out what the likely selling price would 
have been. They take into account the make, model, specification, mileage and condition of 
the vehicle being valued. And they are constantly updated, so they can be used to ascertain 
the likely valuation at a particular date. Thats significant here because Mr A is insured for 
the market value of the motorbike at the point it was stolen. 
Zenith says the trade guides it used gave valuations of £2,634 and £2,825. Our investigator 
also checked the trade guides, and I can see the valuations he produced were in line with 
those provided by Zenith (£2,591, £2,634 and £2,825). Zeniths final offer is towards the 
higher end of this range. 
Our website also mentions that we dont generally find adverts as persuasive, because 
differences in mileage and age can significantly affect value, and sometimes vehicles end up 
selling for below the advertised price (due to negotiation for example). Its therefore usually 
possible to find adverts for vehicles for sale at much higher, as well as much lower amounts, 
than the likely price given in the trade guides. In this case, for example, the adverts 
presented by each party range from £1,999 to £3,499. 
I appreciate Mr A has taken a mean average of the adverts he found. But the sample size 
hes used is very small, particularly when compared to the nationwide research taken into 
account by the trade guides. And as Ive explained, the trade guides take into account that 
vehicles sometimes sell for less than the advertised price, as well as the specification, 
mileage and condition of the vehicle being valued. 
So, while I appreciate Mr A has taken the time to carry out his own research of the market, 
Im not persuaded that the advertised prices hes sent us demonstrate that Zeniths valuation 
was unfair or needs increasing.  
Ive also thought about the additions Mr A has said were on the motorbike when it was 
stolen, including heated grips, engine bars, a luggage rack and a chain oiler system. And I 
think its unlikely they would have added to the desirability of the motorbike to such an extent 
that they would have increased its overall value, either individually or collectively. 
Finally, Ive thought carefully about Mr As point, and the crux of his case, that the theft 
happened at a time when the country had just gone into a full lockdown in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. He feels the trade guides dont capture the impact this would have had 
on the market. 
Its thought the lockdown led to increased demand for used vehicles. Factories and dealers 
were closed, and therefore less new vehicles were being produced or sold. Combined with 
other factors, such as avoidance of public transport, this created higher demand for cheaper, 
used vehicles, particularly commuter vehicles like motorbikes and scooters. Like Ive said, the trade guides are constantly being updated based on nationwide research 
of advertised and auction prices. Therefore they should reflect any changes to the market in 
real time. The retail transacted value of Mr As motorbike on one trade guide was increasing 
as demand for used motorbikes continued to rise in May and June 2020 for example.
Even if I thought the trade guides didnt accurately capture the impact of a lockdown on the 
likely prices of used motorbikes, Mr A is covered for the market value of the motorbike when 
it was stolen. That happened just two weeks after lockdown started. I think its unlikely the 
factors outlined above would have resulted in a marked increase in the cost of used 
motorbikes as quickly as that. 
Zenith didnt make payment of the full settlement until 28 May 2020. By that time, for the 
reasons Ive explained, its likely there would have been far fewer used motorbikes on the 
market to choose from. And any motorbikes that were on the market would likely have been 
advertised at higher prices to reflect the heightened demand. Mr A ultimately made the 
decision to augment the settlement with his own funds and buy a newer motorbike. 
Its important to mention though that Zenith had offered a settlement amount of £2,800, 
which I consider to be fair, during a phone conversation a month earlier on 29 April 2020, 
however Mr A didnt accept this offer until 28 May 2020, once hed exhausted Zeniths 
complaint process.  
So, whilst I accept Mr As buying power had reduced in the interim period, I dont think thats 
attributable to anything Zenith did wrong. It made a fair offer to settle the claim within a few 
weeks of the theft. And Mr A has confirmed he had access to an alternative vehicle during 
that period, so I havent seen fit to make an award of compensation. 
My final decision
While I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr A, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint, for the reasons given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman