DRN-3560512
The complaint
Ms C and Mr H complain that First Complete Ltd failed to set up their life and critical illness 
assurance policy promptly. And that this led to the insurer declining Mr Hs claim as they 
considered hed misrepresented his health. 
Where I refer to First Complete, this includes their appointed representatives.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Ms C and Mr H were recommended a life and critical illness assurance policy by 
First Complete. The application for cover was submitted on 7 November 2017 and included 
£201,400 of decreasing cover over a 34-year term. It also included income protection cover 
for Ms C.
The insurer required medical information from Ms Cs GP as part of their underwriting of the 
policy. They obtained consent from Ms C to obtain this information on 6 December 2017 and 
requested it from the GP the next day. 
Ms C emailed First Completes adviser, who Ill refer to as R, on 30 January 2018 asking for 
an update as she hadnt heard anything since returning the medical consent form to the 
insurer. A response wasnt provided but, on the same day, R contacted the insurer asking for 
an update. The insurer contacted the GP surgery and were told their request wasnt 
received, so it was resent. 
Ms C emailed R for an update on 8 February 2018 but, again, a response wasnt received.
An invoice from the GP surgery was received by the insurer on 9 February 2018, which they 
paid on 17 February 2018. 
Ms C emailed R for an update for a third time on 25 February 2018. First Complete 
contacted Ms C the next day and told her R was no longer working for the firm. But, having 
spoken with the insurer, the medical information from the GP was still outstanding (although 
the surgery had confirmed it was done but awaiting the doctors signature). First Complete 
advised Ms C that it may help if she chased her doctor.
The GP report was received by the insurer on 12 March 2018 and they informed 
First Complete, on 15 March 2018, that cover had been accepted on standard terms. The 
next day First Complete got confirmation from Ms C to proceed with the application. As the 
policy couldnt continue under Rs log in details, due to him leaving First Complete, it had to 
be resubmitted as a new application. Cover started on 19 March 2018.
Mr H received a multiple sclerosis diagnosis in December 2019 and so made a claim under 
the policy. The insurer declined the claim as they said Mr H had misrepresented his health 
by not disclosing symptoms he experienced, and sought advice for, in February 2018  
which was prior to cover being put on risk. 
Ms C and Mr H complained to First Complete in March 2021. In short, they said:
They werent told R had left the firm until 26 February 2018, when they received a 
response to their third email asking for an update. Nor were they informed that their 
application needed to be resubmitted and only became aware of this when the claim 
was declined. 
There was a period of 19 weeks between submitting the application and cover being 
put in place. They believe their application was mishandled during this time and that 
they were misled.
Had the application been handled correctly, cover shouldve been in place before 
Mr H displayed his first symptoms. Further, had they been informed the resubmittal of 
the application may have implications on the validity of cover, then they wouldve had 
the opportunity to rectify the issues the delay had on their eventual claim. 
Based on the information provided by First Complete, they were led to believe the 
insurer had received medical reports post 26 February 2018 (when Mr H saw a GP 
about his symptoms) and issued cover based on up to date medical information.  
They feel they were lied to and werent provided with qualified financial advice after 
their application was submitted which directly impacted their claim. This has affected 
them financially at an already worrying and stressful time following Mr Hs diagnosis.
First Complete didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were satisfied the policy was 
correctly recommended and dealt with. But that, due to the absence of R, it was necessary 
to submit the policy application again. The insurer sent Ms C and Mr H a copy of the 
application on 19 March 2018 and, had there been a change in medical history before cover 
was accepted (16 March 2018), they were obligated to inform the insurer of this. This didnt 
happen. 
The matter was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint in part. In short, she said:
Although Mr H didnt receive his multiple sclerosis diagnosis until December 2019, 
information from his consultant evidenced that he started experiencing symptoms in 
August 2017  before the application was submitted. Therefore, even if the policy 
had been put in place quicker, Mr H wouldnt have had a successful claim.
Mr H also saw his GP in February 2018 about persisting symptoms of pins an 
needles, as well as numbers in his fingers that had spread to his lower legs and 
back. This information wasnt disclosed to the insurer even though Mr H had an 
ongoing duty of disclosure until the policy went live. 
First Complete made several customer service failings. Those being, they ought to 
have let Ms C and Mr H know the policy application had to be resubmitted. They 
didnt respond to the first two emails sent to R asking for an update on their 
application. And First Complete couldve advised Ms C or Mr H the GP report was 
outstanding due to it requiring a GP signature at an earlier opportunity  as the 
emails from Ms C requesting updates ought to have prompted this. 
The level of service fell below what would reasonably be expected, particularly 
around communication. And so, she recommended £250 compensation be paid. 
Ms C provided a letter from Mr Hs consultant that confirmed he only started experiencing 
symptoms in February 2018 as opposed to 2017. In light of this, Ms C and Mr H maintained 
their position that cover wouldve been in place before the first symptoms were experienced 
had the application been handled correctly. 
Our investigator considered this but her position remained the same. In short, she added:
She accepted the consultants correction to the patient notes by confirming Mr Hs 
symptoms only commenced in February 2018. But she wasnt persuaded cover 
wouldve been in place prior to these symptoms occurring.This is because the insurer requested the GP report on 7 December 2017  after 
receiving the relevant consent from Ms C  due to a freckle being disclosed on the 
application. First Complete chased the insurer for an update on 30 January 2018, 
most likely because of Ms Cs first email, and were told the GP hadnt received a 
copy of the insurers request (prompting it to be resent). Although its disappointing 
First Complete didnt update Ms C and Mr H about this, she was satisfied they 
contacted the insurer for an update which resulted in them chasing the GP surgery.
First Complete also advised Ms C and Mr H to chase the GP surgery on 26 February 
2018 which she thought was appropriate as it isnt unusual for customers to contact 
their GP to try and speed things up. Although its possible Ms C and Mr H couldve 
been advised of this earlier, she accounted for this in the £250 compensation. 
She didnt think the delay in the GP report requiring a signature could fairly be 
attributed to First Complete, or the insurer. Instead it was more to do with the GP 
surgery. In any case, the report wasnt received until 12 March 2018.
So, although First Complete made customer service failings she couldnt safely say, 
had it not been for these, the policy wouldve been in place prior to Mr H experiencing 
his first symptoms. 
First Complete accepted our investigators recommendation to pay £250 compensation. 
Ms C and Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im 
only looking at the actions of First Complete here. So, I wont be commenting on the 
insurers decision to decline the claim  which I understand has been dealt with by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service as a separate complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Ms C and Mr H that Ive given careful consideration to everything 
theyve said. I also dont underestimate the impact Mr Hs diagnosis has had on them or the 
financial implications of the claim being declined. But what I must consider here is whether 
First Complete is responsible for the misrepresentation that the insurer relied upon in 
declining the claim. I know this wont be the outcome Ms C and Mr H are hoping for but, for 
similar reasons to our investigations, I dont think they are. Ill explain why.
Ms C and Mr Hs application was submitted on 7 November 2017 and, considering the 
consultants letter provided, I accept Mr H hadnt experienced any multiple sclerosis 
symptoms at that time. The policy summary document provided by the insurer said:
What do I need to do?
You must answer all of our application questions completely, truthfully and 
accurately. If you dont, we may amend or cancel your policy, or we may not pay 
a claim.
You need to tell us if any of the information youve given us changes between 
completing your application and us confirming when your policy will start.
This meant that Ms C and Mr H had an ongoing duty to inform the insurer if their health 
changed before cover commenced if it affected the answers theyd provided in the 
application.
Before the insurer could offer terms, they required information from Ms Cs GP. After 
receiving Ms Cs consent, the insurer requested it from the GP on 7 December 2018. The application process during this time was therefore outside of First Completes control as it 
was the insurers requirement for medical information. 
Ms C asked R for an update on 30 January 2018 but she didnt receive a response. It seems 
however that this prompted First Complete to contact the insurer about the status of the 
application, as they did so the same day. The insurer, after contacting the GP surgery, 
informed First Complete that their initial request hadnt been received so it had to be resent. 
Although I understand Ms C and Mr Hs frustration at not receiving a response to their email, 
Im satisfied First Complete took reasonable steps to ensure their application was being 
progressed by contacting the insurer.
I also dont think First Complete can reasonably be held responsible for any delay relating to 
the GP surgery not receiving the insurers initial request. This is because, as Ive said, it was 
the insurers requirement for this information and so First Complete werent involved in 
requesting it. And even if First Complete had responded to Ms Cs email, I dont think it 
wouldve sped up the application process as the insurer had to resend their request  which 
they did.
The GP surgery received the insurers request but required an invoice payment before the 
information could be provided. This was paid by the insurer on 17 February 2018. I 
understand Ms C sent another email on 8 February 2018  prior to the invoice being 
received and paid by the insurer  asking for an update. Again, although this wasnt 
responded to, I likewise dont think First Complete were able to influence this part of the 
application process either. The requirement for payment lay between the GP surgery and the 
insurer  and I dont think it took an unusually long time either. 
After this, Ms C sent a third email to R on 25 February 2018 asking, yet again, for an update. 
This was responded to by First Complete the next day and they explained R had left their 
firm. First Complete also said the insurer was still awaiting the medical information from the 
GP and so advised Ms C that it may help if she chased the surgery. Given the invoice had 
only been paid about nine days earlier, I dont think First Complete could do much more at 
that time but I consider the advice they gave Ms C was appropriate  as sometimes, the 
patient chasing the surgery can speed things up. 
The GP report was received by the insurer on 12 March 2018. Mr Hs medical records show 
that he first contacted the NHS on 25 February 2018 about his symptoms and then saw a 
GP about them the next day. So, the symptoms he experienced and sought medical advice 
for happened prior to the insurer receiving Ms Cs medical information and before cover 
commenced.
Its unfortunate that there were delays in the insurer obtaining the medical information from 
Ms Cs GP surgery to allow them to underwrite the policy. I understand this was also partly 
due to the report awaiting a GP signature. Although I sympathise with Ms C and Mr Hs 
situation, these types of GP surgery delays arent uncommon. And, for the above reasons, I 
dont think the delays can fairly be attributed to First Complete. I think they acted 
appropriately by contacting the insurer on 30 January 2018 and by advising Ms C to chase 
her GP surgery on 26 February 2018.
Due to R leaving the firm, the application had to be resubmitted once the insurer had agreed 
to offer cover. I understand Ms C and Mr H werent informed of this by First Complete. So, I 
understand their frustration at later finding this out when they tried to claim. Nevertheless, I 
dont think the misrepresentation relied upon by the insurer can be attributed simply to 
resubmittal of the application. This is because, as I earlier explained, Ms C and Mr H had a 
duty to inform the insurer if their health changed before cover commenced if it affected the 
answers theyd provided in the application. In Mr Hs case, it had and they didnt inform the 
insurer about it. 
I appreciate Ms C and Mr H have pointed out that cover was put in place quickly after 
someone picked up their application following their third email. And so, they consider that it wouldve been in place before 25 February 2018  when Mr H first contacted the NHS about 
his symptoms  had it been picked up sooner. Although Ive considered this, Im not 
persuaded that it was a lack of action on First Completes part that led to the delay in the 
policy being set up. I think this was largely due to the insurers initial request for information 
not being received and the delay in the GP signing the report. I also think its relevant to add 
that, at the point of Ms Cs third email, the GP invoice had been received and paid  which 
was, at least, partly due to First Completes actions in chasing the insurer on 
30 January 2018. I therefore dont think it would be reasonable to say First Complete only 
picked up Ms C and Mr Hs application after their third email. 
It follows that I dont think First Complete are responsible for Mr Hs claim being declined by 
the insurer.
I have however considered the service issues Ms C and Mr H experienced during the setting 
up of their policy. And I agree with our investigator that First Complete failed to communicate 
with Ms C and Mr H appropriately. I think First Complete ought to have let them know R had 
left the firm when he did, responded to their first two emails, kept them updated on the 
progress of their application and also let them know that their application had to be 
resubmitted. This lack of communication caused avoidable trouble and upset to Ms C and 
Mr H. Ive given this careful thought and I consider the £250 recommended by our 
investigator to be a reasonable figure in recognition of this. 
I realise Ms C and Mr H will be disappointed by this outcome given the impact the declined 
claim has had on their lives following Mr Hs diagnosis. But, for the above reasons, I think 
£250 compensation is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct First Complete Ltd to pay Ms C and 
Mr H £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman