DRN-1520795
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, didnt respond to his 
correspondence about bank charges.
What happened
Mr H lives abroad. He has a hearing impairment, which makes it difficult for him to receive 
phone calls. He can only make outgoing calls with additional equipment. He prefers to 
communicate in writing.
Halifax sent Mr H a letter in or around October 2018, saying it shouldve told him about his 
bank charges, but it hadnt. The letter said Halifax would be making a payment into his 
account. Mr H said the letter was vague and confusing. He said it wasnt clear why there had 
been an error, or when it happened. He emailed Halifax on 1 May 2019, asking for 
clarification. He sent his email to two email addresses which Halifax had provided him with 
previously.
Halifax didnt respond, despite him sending a follow-up email on 5 June 2019. At that stage, 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
At the investigators intervention, Halifax opened a complaint for him and sent Mr H a final 
response letter. In its letter, Halifax said it had identified £28.00 worth of daily overdraft fees 
on his arranged overdraft but, as it hadnt notified him about the charges, it would be 
refunding them with interest. It apologised for not responding to his emails and paid him £75 
by way of an apology. 
Subsequently, Halifax said it had made a mistake. The payment of £28 was an apology for 
not notifying him about the bank charges. It was not a refund of the overdraft charges.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome. He said Halifax repeatedly ignored his 
correspondence and that this had happened in two other complaints with this service. He 
also complained that the final response letter was inaccurate and misleading.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She was satisfied that 
Halifax had explained why it had written to him about the overdraft charges. And whilst she 
agreed it hadnt responded to his correspondence, she thought its payment of £75 was a fair 
and reasonable sum for his trouble and upset.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've decided to increase Halifax's offer to a total of £200.I havent seen the actual letter that Mr H received from Halifax in 2018. Ive only seen a 
sample letter from Halifax. Mr H said its different to his letter, but he hasnt sent us a copy of 
his letter. So, I must rely on the sample letter and other correspondence from Halifax to 
understand why it had written to him.
Based on what Halifax told us, some customers didnt receive their statutory letters informing 
them of their overdraft charges. This affected customers for whom Halifax didnt have an up-
to-date address or whose post had been returned to Halifax marked gone away. Halifax 
decided to stop sending post on these accounts. However, Halifax was still obliged to send 
notifications about bank charges.
Mr H was one of these customers. He hadnt been notified of bank charges from August 
2015 to November 2016. Halifax paid him compensation for failing to send him the statutory 
letter about charges for this period. However, it didnt refund the charges because they were 
correctly applied as hed been using his planned overdraft allowance during that period.
The final response letter mistakenly said he was getting a refund, which wasnt helpful, but 
this was quickly corrected. Im satisfied Mr H now has a clearer explanation of why Halifax 
wrote to him about bank charges and how it rectified its error. 
No response/complaint handling
Mr Hs main complaint is about the lack of response to his emails. Halifax acknowledged it 
didnt respond to his two emails. It said his first email wasnt treated as a complaint but as a 
request for clarification. It also said he sent his emails to the wrong email address. He sent it 
to an address used by customers with existing complaints.
Nonetheless, it agreed it should have done more for him and paid him £75 for his trouble 
and upset.
I agree Mr H received a poor service.  In fact, he didnt receive a service at all. I realise that, 
had this service not intervened, he might not have received a response from Halifax. 
I dont know how he or any other customer would know the different purposes for the email 
addresses. Besides, Ive checked his emails. Mr H sent his emails to two addresses, which 
he says Halifax gave him when he told it about his hearing impairment. One of the 
addresses is called customer services. It seems more than reasonable to me that he should 
use that address.
But I also think it wasnt clear from his email that Mr H was complaining. The FCA Handbook 
defines a complaint as 
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims 
management service or a redress determination, which alleges that the complainant has 
suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience. 
Mr H didnt say that hed suffered (or may suffer) any loss or material distress or 
inconvenience.
However, my primary task is to consider how Halifaxs failure to respond to his emails has 
affected him. Although he hasnt suffered a financial loss, he has been put to the trouble of 
contacting this service. More importantly, this is a consumer who can only communicate with 
Halifax by email or post. He cannot simply pick up the phone and call the bank. He has told 
Halifax about his communication needs and this should be recorded on his file. Ive no doubt it was frustrating and upsetting, therefore, to experience a third incident when Halifax didnt 
respond to his emails.
I dont agree that £75 is a fair reflection of his trouble and upset. So, Im asking Halifax to 
increase its offer to a total of £200.
Im aware of Mr Hs other complaints with this service which are also about Halifaxs failure 
to respond to his correspondence.  As Ive explained in another decision, complaint handling 
isnt a regulated or other covered activity. The High Court has confirmed that a complaint 
about complaint handling is not a complaint about a financial service, so falls outside of our 
jurisdiction, (R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 2017). 
Im afraid I can only consider a complaint about poor service if it is ancillary to a regulated 
activity, which is why the investigator has also investigated Mr Hs original complaint about 
the vague and confusing letter. However, Im satisfied that he had a complaint about a 
financial service and that the poor complaint handling was ancillary to this complaint.
 
Putting things right
I think a fair and reasonable sum for Mr H's trouble and upset is £200.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm partially upholding this complaint. I'm asking Bank of Scotland 
Plc, trading as Halifax' to pay Mr H a total of £200 for his trouble and upset.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman