DRN-3734436
The complaint
Mrs C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard allowed her address to be
changed on her credit card accounts without her permission.
What happened
Mrs C had been making payments to her credit card accounts but hadnt received
statements for a number of years and she says when she first tried to contact Barclays about
this in 2018, she couldnt pass security and so wasnt able to find out what was happening 
with her accounts.
In 2021, Mrs C decided again to get in touch with Barclays about the credit cards. This time
she was able to pass security after it was discovered the addresses on her accounts had
been changed in 2016.
Barclays didnt know how this had happened but accepted they mightve made a mistake
and offered Mrs C £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service because she said had she been receiving
statements she wouldve paid off her balances sooner and wouldve therefore incurred less
interest.
Initially our Investigator said he thought what Barclays had already offered was fair. But after
some further enquiries, decided Barclays should refund some interest that had been applied
to Mrs Cs account.
Mrs C accepted the Investigators second view. Barclays did not. As Barclays didnt agree, 
the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out my findings again below and they form part of this 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has two credit card accounts with Barclays which shes been making monthly
payments towards for a number of years. She noticed sometime before 2018 she hadnt
been receiving statements for the accounts for some time so she tried to contact Barclays
and wanted to update her address as shed recently moved. She said she made a number of
calls but wasnt able to pass security and had made a number of similar calls before calling
again in 2019. Barclays dont have a record of these calls and Mrs C cant provide evidence
of them.
Barclays say if Mrs C had called and wasnt able to pass security, a note of this call wouldve
been placed on the accounts and this would usually also result in a fraud marker, because of
the potential for the call to have been made by someone other than the genuine account
holder. But there are no notes of attempted calls or fraud markers because of failed security
on Mrs Cs accounts.
Mrs C says she wasnt able to pass security so couldnt get any information about her
accounts. Mrs C said as she couldnt pass security she didnt know what else she could do
and so simply continued making her payments. She didnt get in touch with Barclays again
until March 2021.
At this point Barclays discovered the address on Mrs Cs accounts had been changed twice
in 2016. Mrs C says shes never lived at either of these addresses and says didnt make the
address changes herself. Barclays said they didnt know how the address changes had
happened because theyd taken place a number of years before but decided to accept they
mightve made a mistake. They offered Mrs C £250 for this.
Im aware Mrs C is keen to understand how the address was changed in the first place. But
Barclays cant tell us. So while I understand her frustration, I dont think this makes a
difference to the overall outcome of her complaint because Barclays has accepted they may
have made a mistake so what remains for me to consider is what they should do to put
things right.
Mrs C said £250 wasnt enough to put things right. She said if shed been receiving
statements she couldve paid off her balances sooner. She said she would have paid both
balances off in full in 2019 when she moved house and has provided evidence that she had
the funds available to do this. She wanted Barclays to write off the remaining balances.
When Mrs C was able to pass security and update her address in 2021, she didnt pay off
the balances in full. I can see she made a large payment towards the balances at this time.
She says this is because she wanted to pursue her complaint but she wouldve been able to
do that even if shed paid the balances off in full.
The interest has been applied in line with the terms of the account. Mrs C was aware that
she had these accounts, as shed been making her payments throughout despite statements
not having been received. While I understand her reasons for not contacting Barclays again
until 2021, I cant say this was Barclays fault and I dont think this means Barclays isnt
entitled to charge interest during this period. So I dont intend to require Barclays to refund
any interest on Mrs Cs accounts. Nor do I think Barclays need to write off any remaining
balances on Mrs Cs accounts.
However, I do agree that Mrs C has been worried and inconvenienced because the address
was wrongly changed on her accounts. Barclays has already offered Mrs C £250 for this and
I think this is fair in the all the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C responded to say she didnt agree. She still felt Barclays should refund the interest 
applied to her account during the period the address was wrong. She said this because, in 
summary, Barclays had made a mistake with her address, they had not been able to offer an 
explanation as to why and in doing so, had deprived her of the opportunity to clear her 
balances sooner. 
Mrs C also provided some letters relating to Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claims she 
had made regarding these accounts  she felt the address issue had affected her PPI 
claims.   
Barclays responded to say they agreed with my findings. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all that Mrs C has said. I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt 
think Barclays should refund the interest applied because their mistake with the address had 
stopped Mrs C from paying the balances off sooner. So as Mrs C hasnt provided anything 
new for me to consider on this point, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
Turning to Mrs Cs concerns that the address issue affected the handling of her PPI claims. 
As these concerns are about PPI rather than the credit card accounts themselves, Mrs C 
would need to raise this issue with Barclays separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find Barclays offer of £250 fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My decision is Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard should pay Mrs C £250.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman