DRN-2644017
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr H took out a car insurance policy through Somerset Bridge  a broker. He 
also entered into a finance agreement through a finance provider to pay the annual premium 
in monthly instalments. In March 2020 it wrote to him to say the finance provider had 
informed it that the finance agreement had been cancelled due to non-payment. It advised 
Mr H that it would cancel his insurance policy in seven days if he didnt make contact to 
arrange a new payment arrangement. Mr H didnt respond to this letter so Somerset Bridge 
cancelled the insurance policy.
Mr H later called Somerset Bridge to complain. He said he didnt cancel the direct debit 
arrangement, so he said it wasnt his fault the payments werent being taken. Somerset 
Bridge said it wasnt responsible for the actions of the finance provider. And it said it had 
cancelled the policy correctly in line with the terms of the insurance policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was fair Somerset Bridge only gave 
one notice of cancellation as she thought it should have contacted Mr H at least once before 
starting the cancellation process. She also thought it should have used more than one 
method of communication to notify Mr H of the pending cancellation. So she thought 
Somerset Bridge should waive all the administration charges it charged and ensure Mr H 
only paid a pro-rata amount of the annual premium based on the length of time he was 
insured. She also thought it should remove the cancellation notice.
Somerset Bridge didnt accept the investigators opinion. It said it had acted in line with its 
terms of business which said it would cancel the insurance policy after seven days if a 
payment is missed. It also said it hadnt been told of any issues with Mr H not receiving 
emails. So it maintained it acted fairly.
As Somerset Bridge didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Somerset Bridge has acted in two capacities in this matter  an insurance broker and also as 
a credit broker. The finance provider cancelled Mr Hs credit agreement in October 2019, but 
it didnt notify Somerset Bridge until March 2020. I cant comment on the actions of the 
finance provider. In this decision Im looking at whether I think Somerset Bridge acted fairly 
in cancelling Mr Hs insurance policy. I dont think it did.
Somerset Bridges terms of business with Mr H entitled it to cancel the insurance policy after 
seven days if a payment towards the finance agreement was missed. But this service will 
always consider whats fair and  in particular  whether the strict application of a term could 
lead to an unfair situation.
I think its important to set out how the insurance premium was financed. Mr H took out an 
annual insurance policy and an annual premium was charged which Mr H needed to pay 
upfront. Mr H chose to pay the policy monthly. To do so, he entered into a separate finance 
agreement where the finance provider paid the annual premium on Mr Hs behalf and Mr H 
agreed to repay the finance provider in line with the terms of the finance agreement. This 
means, in this case, the insurer has received the annual premium. So the insurer hasnt lost 
out as a result of any non-payment towards the finance agreement  the finance provider is 
the entity who has lost out. 
This means Somerset Bridge didnt cancel the insurance policy for any reason required by 
the insurer. But it was doing so in its capacity as a credit broker and, in particular, acting as a 
debt administrator. In doing so I think Somerset Bridge was effectively acting on behalf of 
Mr H to help him manage/reduce the debt payable. Essentially Mr H owed a debt towards 
the finance provider. So, in cancelling the insurance policy, Somerset Bridge was looking to 
obtain a premium refund to reduce this debt. This means, Somerset Bridge didnt cancel the 
policy because the insurer asked it to do so, but it was, in effect, doing so on behalf of Mr H 
to help him with his debt. So, irrespective of whether I think the cancellation process it 
followed was fair, Somerset Bridge should have treated this as policy cancelled by 
consumer not cancelled by insurer.
But, due to the potential significant implications of cancelling an insurance policy  in 
particular the administration charges involved and implications of not having insurance  this 
should be a last resort. So I think Somerset Bridge should have looked to contact Mr H first 
of all to explore whether there were other ways. And I dont think it was fair for it to 
immediately go straight to a seven-day cancellation notice.
Further to this, given the implications of cancellation I referred to above, as a responsible 
broker, I think Somerset Bridge should have taken more than minimal steps to inform Mr H 
of the pending cancellation. I think it should have used more than one method of 
communication to contact Mr H in respect to this. Im conscious it sent Mr H a text message 
to inform him it had cancelled the policy, so I query why it didnt use this communication 
method to contact him before the cancellation.
Ultimately, I dont think Somerset Bridge treated Mr H fairly in the way it cancelled the policy. 
I think its most likely Mr H would have contacted Somerset Bridge in time if it had acted in 
line with what Ive set out above. And I dont think the policy would have been cancelled had 
it done so. So I do think Mr H has lost out as a result of Somerset Bridges unfair actions. 
Given this, I think Somerset Bridge should remove all record of the policys cancellation and 
it should write to Mr H to confirm this. Mr H will have had to arrange a new insurance policy 
sooner than he should have had to do. And its likely he will have incurred administration 
charges to do so. So I dont think its fair that he should have to pay administration charges 
twice in a year to arrange an insurance policy. So I think Somerset Bridge should also waive 
all administration charges its charged  i.e. the finance fee of £50, the broker fee of £14.44 
and the cancellation fee of £75. And Mr H should only be required to pay for the time he was 
insured  i.e. a pro-rata amount of the insurance premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I require Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
1. should remove all record of the policys cancellation;
2. write to Mr H to confirm he doesnt have to disclose the cancellation to future insurers; 
and
3. waive all administration charges its charged.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman