DRN-3824915
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax charged him a fee for 
transferring money from his credit card to his current account, even though he transferred 
the money back to the credit card after the original transfer.
What happened
Mr D says on 4 March 2022, he requested a cash transfer of £9,962 from his credit card to 
his current account. He says the system showed that they had received the request and that 
it was submitted for approval, but it did not confirm if the request had been approved or 
rejected at the time of the request. Mr D says he waited for approximately two hours and 
nothing had changed on his account, so he made alternative arrangements to fund the 
purchase of a large item. He says at no point did he receive any information from Halifax to 
confirm if the transfer had been approved or rejected. 
Mr D says that on 7 March he checked his current account and saw that the transfer had 
been made from his credit card to his current account. He says he tried to make the payment 
straight back to the credit card, but it wouldnt let him as at this point it was not showing as a 
debit on his credit card. He says he was able to make the payment back in full on 8 March, 
however, Halifax had subsequently charged an additional £398.48 in charges. Mr D made a 
complaint to Halifax.
Halifax upheld Mr Ds complaint in part. They said they agreed with the part of his complaint 
that he hadnt been notified the transfer had been actioned and enclosed a cheque for £30 
for this. But they said the money transfer had been processed as set out in their terms and 
conditions and they charged him a 4% fee, which was £398.48 of the balance of £9,962 that 
he requested. Mr D brought his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said when making a cash transfer from 
the credit card, Halifax would charge him a fee, which was 4% of the amount he was 
transferring. He said he believed Mr D wouldve been aware of the rate and fees involved as 
Halifax said he wouldve had to agree to them before proceeding with the transfer and they 
wouldve been available for him to view online or via the application (app). He said although 
Mr D wanted to receive the funds into his current account straight away, this wasnt 
guaranteed, and the transfer was completed the following working day.
Our adjudicator said Mr D told us he made alternative arrangements after around two hours 
of waiting for the transfer. So, he couldnt say that Halifax not telling him the funds had 
cleared two days later made a difference to him or his purchase. He said as the fee was 
applied correctly against the transaction, he couldnt tell Halifax to refund the fee because Mr 
D made alternative arrangements and decided not to wait.
Mr D asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he used the app to make the transfer and it said it was pending. He said 
he contacted the call centre, but they were unable to help and he didnt know whether the 
payment was going through or not. He said the item he wanted to buy was 200 miles away 
and he wanted to buy the item immediately, so he made alternative arrangements and 
bought the item. He says he tried to contact Halifax when he was at the venue where he 
purchased the item, to cancel the transfer, but they couldnt let him know whether it was 
being transferred or not, but the process had already started so it couldnt be stopped.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr D has said about contacting the call centre to see if the payment 
was going through or not and that he tried to contact Halifax at the venue where he 
purchased the item, but Halifax have provided me evidence that between 3-7 March that 
they didnt have an interaction with him over the phone. Thats not to say that Mr D didnt 
make these calls, but there are no call recordings on their system or any indication of Mr D 
ringing them during this timeframe. I asked Halifax if they could provide me with the call Mr D 
made when he complained, which they did.
Ive listened to the call Mr D made to Halifax on 9 March  after the funds had been 
transferred. This is the call where he raises the complaint. He told the call handler he 
couldnt understand why they had charged the fee when he had transferred the funds back. 
The call handler explains that even though she could see Mr D had paid the money back, he 
would always incur the fee for a money transfer. He does not mention any previous calls 
about the issue and he doesnt mention that he tried to cancel the transfer, so Im unable to 
hear about any previous calls Mr D says he has made. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the credit card to see what they say about money 
transfers. They say If you ask us to process a balance transfer or a money transfer, we will 
transfer the agreed amount when we have completed our security checks, using the Faster 
Payments Scheme on the working day we approve your request. The money will normally 
reach the account within 2 hours and no later than the end of the next working day after we 
receive your instruction. 
The funds were paid into Mr Ds account within this timeframe. While they werent paid within 
two hours, they were paid by the next working day. While Mr D wanted the funds before the 
next working day to make his purchase over the weekend, Halifax did pay the funds in line 
with their terms and conditions. In addition, Halifaxs website shows that transfers cant be 
cancelled, and fees cant be returned.
Halifax have confirmed that Mr D would have needed to agree to the conditions of the 
money transfer before he could process the payment on their app, which would have 
confirmed the money transfer fee of 4%. So I cant ask Halifax to refund the fee when Mr D 
would have agreed to pay this as part of the transfer, even when he paid the funds back to 
Halifax shortly after he received them.
Ive considered what Mr D has said about Halifax not notifying him that the funds had been 
successfully transferred. Ive looked at Halifaxs system notes and they show that on 7 
March at 19:33 it says SMS attempt to notify customer of successful MT (money transfer). 
So it does appear that Mr D was informed that the transfer was successful  albeit after the 
funds had already been transferred and also possibly after Mr D had realised this himself 
after seeing this in the app. In their final response letter to Mr D, Halifax said the £30 was for him not being informed that 
the transfer had been actioned. But on the call where he made his complaint he was offered 
the £30 for his call costs. So while I cant agree Mr D was not notified the transfer was 
successful, the call handler did offer him £30 for his call costs which Im satisfied is very 
reasonable for the time he was on the phone to them. 
It is not clear whether Mr D has deposited the cheque that Halifax sent him. If he hasnt 
banked the cheque yet, the cheque will likely have expired. So while it follows I wont be 
asking Halifax to do anything further to resolve the complaint, if the cheque hasnt been 
successfully banked then Ill require them to send Mr D a replacement cheque for £30. It 
would be advisable for Halifax to cancel the original cheque.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay £30 by cheque to 
Mr D (if he hasnt already banked it). But I wont be requiring them to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman