DRN-4023588
The complaint
Mr W is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC asked him to contact them over the phone when 
hes unable to.
What happened
Mr W has a medical condition which means hes unable to speak on the phone. Hes 
previously let Lloyds know about this.
Mr W contacted Lloyds via their online chat function to cancel a subscription payment. He 
initially chatted with the virtual assistant, but was then transferred to an adviser. The adviser 
told Mr W they couldnt cancel the subscription payment over the chat function as they 
couldnt see his complete debit card number, and asked him to contact them by phone to 
confirm it. 
Later in the same day Mr W contacted Lloyds again through the online chat function and 
explained he wanted to make a complaint. He was transferred to a different adviser who 
apologised for their colleague asking him to make a call, and told him how to cancel the 
subscription payment through mobile banking. 
Mr W complained to Lloyds. He said, in summary, that Lloyds were aware that hes unable to 
speak on the phone and it had distressed him to be asked to do so. He said that Lloyds had 
discriminated against him and breached the Equality Act 2010 by asking him to call them.
Lloyds sent their final response letter on 27 October 2022. They paid Mr W £10 in 
compensation, because there was a system problem which had led to the adviser being 
unable to see his full debit card number. They didnt offer him any compensation for asking 
him to call them.
An investigator looked at Mr Ws complaint. He thought Lloyds should pay another £30 in 
compensation. Lloyds agreed. But Mr W thought Lloyds should pay him £500 in 
compensation. Because he didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaints been 
passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the compensation amount recommended by the investigator is fair. 
Ill explain why.
I understand Mr W finds it distressing to be asked for phone contact. I can see that Lloyds 
does have a record of his individual needs logged on their system. But in this case, it seems 
the adviser he spoke to on the virtual chat either wasnt aware of or didnt take account of his 
needs at the time they suggested that he call them.
I am glad to see the second adviser involved in the conversation passed on an alternative 
means of cancelling the subscription, so Mr W didnt need to speak to Lloyds on the phone 
to do so. But I agree with the investigator that Lloyds should pay some more compensation 
for Mr W being asked to make a call, as it seems the first adviser did have access to Mr Ws 
records during the conversation and his individual needs were recorded.
Mr W has complained that Lloyds has breached the Equality Act 2010 by failing to make the 
reasonable adjustments hes asked for. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when 
deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this 
complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr W wants a decision that Lloyds has 
breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
Taking into account the overall impact this had on Mr W, and bearing in mind the second 
adviser did apologise and provide an alternative solution to a phone call later in the same 
day, I think an additional £30 compensation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W 
£30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman