DRN-3837793
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that, following a theft, Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly valued 
their contents claim. For ease, Ill only refer to the main policyholder  Mr G  in my decision. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his policy for stolen jewellery. He complained to Ageas after being 
dissatisfied with the insurers valuation of some of the stolen items. Mr G says the insurer 
had valued the items too low and that its cash settlement offer was a lot lower than he 
expected. Mr G is also concerned about the insurers offer of vouchers, as he felt these were 
too restrictive and says he wouldnt be able to replace the stolen items using the value of the 
vouchers. Mr G adds that the service he received from Ageas was poor because of the time 
it took to deal with the claim.
In its response, Ageas pointed out that Mr G didnt have proof of ownership, so the insurers 
jewellery supplier could only base its assessment on standard quality when valuing the 
items. Ageas added that it is only required to pay Mr G what it wouldve paid its jewellery 
supplier to replace the items. Ageas also didnt agree that there were any significant service 
issues. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr G asked this service for an independent review. Ageas has since 
increased its valuation for one of the items (a ring) Mr G purchased abroad, as Mr G was 
able to provide proof of purchase. Although Ageas revised its settlement offer for this item, 
because Mr G couldnt provide evidence of the duty he paid at the time, the insurer removed 
the value of the duty it says Mr G wouldve paid.
Our investigator agreed that Ageas had acted in line with its terms. However, the investigator 
felt that Ageas shouldve honoured the revised valuation of the ring Mr G provided proof of 
purchase for, rather than make a deduction for any duty he may have paid. 
Ageas accepted the investigators recommendation and agreed to honour the ring valuation 
of £1,769.60. Mr G didnt agree because he didnt feel he could realistically purchase 
replacements with the overall settlement Ageas had offered. He also wants compensation 
for the time Ageas took to deal with the claim.
Because Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the resolution put forward by our investigator is a fair way 
to settle this complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Gs policy say  Where we can offer to repair or replace through our 
approved suppliers, but we agree to make a cash payment, the payment will not exceed the 
amount we would have paid the approved supplier. If we cannot offer to repair or replace 
through our approved suppliers, we will pay the full replacement cost with no discount 
applied. 
What this means is that Ageas liability is limited by the amount the insurer wouldve paid its 
own supplier. Supplier discounts is a common feature of the insurance industry, and it isnt 
unusual or unfair for Ageas to limit its costs to what it wouldve paid its own supplier. I can 
see from Ageas valuation, that it offered the full cash value on the items it couldnt replace 
via its own supplier and offered a discounted cash settlement on the items its supplier could 
replace. I think Ageas acted fairly when it offered the discounted cash values to Mr G, as this 
is what it wouldve cost Ageas to replace the relevant items and this is what the insurers 
terms say it would do.
Ageas terms also explain that the insurer can offer vouchers that Mr G can use to purchase 
replacements. Again, the use of vouchers is a typical way of settling claims like this as 
insurers receive discounts from voucher suppliers  which helps to keep the overall cost of 
the claim down. I dont find this unfair either. Ageas is entitled to determine how to settle the 
claim and if issuing vouchers to Mr G fairly indemnifies him as well as help to keep costs 
down, then I find this to be reasonable. 
Mr G is unhappy that Ageas cash settlement is significantly lower than the alternative 
voucher value. Hes concerned about being unable to replace the items with the settlement 
offer. But, as I explained, Ageas only needs to pay out what it wouldve paid its own supplier. 
Voucher costs are discounted for insurers, so for example, a £100 voucher likely costs less 
for Ageas to purchase. But if Mr G chooses a cash settlement instead, it isnt unreasonable 
that Ageas only pays out the amount it wouldve paid its supplier for the voucher.
Mr G claims the vouchers offered are too restrictive  that these can only be used on full-
priced items; cannot be used to purchase second-hand jewellery and have a limited period 
before expiry. Ageas told us that its vouchers are indeed set to expire after 12 months but 
advised that Mr G can request a renewal up to two times  extending the period of use by up 
to three years. Ageas doesnt place any restrictions on what Mr G can purchase. The insurer 
did point out that jewellers already give discounts to insurance companies and are unlikely to 
allow the purchase of second-hand items using the vouchers, given that these items already 
have little profit margins, and the jewellers are therefore likely to make a loss. 
This concurs with what Mr G recently told us. But I cant agree that Ageas has acted unfairly. 
The only actual restriction in place is a time limit  but this can be extended by up to three 
years in total. There isnt anything Ive seen that suggests Mr G would be unable to use his 
vouchers within the extended period. And it seems to me that the restrictions that prevent 
Mr G buying second-hand or discounted items have been put in place by jewellers, rather 
than Ageas, as a means to avoid making a loss. Given this, I dont find that Ageas has acted 
unfairly. 
Ageas says its supplier could only value the items based on standard quality, in line with its 
usual practice. The insurer says this is because Mr G couldnt provide proof of ownership, 
which the terms of the policy say Ageas can ask Mr G for. Without such proof and without an 
alternative reliable valuation, I cant fairly conclude that the valuation Ageas has reached is 
unfair. 
I can see that Mr G recently submitted estimates for two of the items, which values the items 
at a significantly higher amount that the valuation Ageas reached. Ageas considered this 
estimate and pointed out that the estimate was reached without a physical inspection of the 
actual items, nor did it think this showed the actual value or show proof of ownership. 
Although I understand Mr Gs frustrations with this opinion, Im not persuaded that the estimate he provided is reliable enough for me to ask Ageas to increase its valuation.
Mr G did manage to provide proof of purchase for a ring obtained abroad. Although Ageas 
initially reduced its settlement offer for this ring by removing the duty it says Mr G wouldve 
paid, the insurer has recently agreed to increase its settlement following our investigators 
recommendation. This is what I wouldve expected Ageas to do, so I need not comment on 
this further.
Mr G would like compensation because of the time taken for Ageas to deal with his claim. 
Ive considered the events after Mr G submitted his claim. I wont set out the specific dates 
here, but it seems to me that Ageas handled the claim within a reasonable period. Id like to 
point out that since Ageas settlement offer in February last year, the settlement of this claim 
has been delayed largely because of the valuation dispute. 
I can appreciate that the claim remaining open has likely added to the overall emotional 
impact of the theft. But I havent seen anything to persuade me that Ageas should pay Mr G 
compensation. Ageas recognised there was a slight delay when its supplier tried to issue its 
report, but Im satisfied the apology Ageas has offered is a reasonable resolution.
For these reasons, I think Ageas has overall handled this claim fairly. The insurer has 
agreed to increase its valuation for the ring Mr G purchased abroad and I agree that this is 
the only action Ageas needs to take to settle this matter fairly.
Putting things right
Ageas acted unfairly when it reduced its revised settlement for the ring Mr G purchased 
abroad. Ageas revised valuation for this ring is £1,769.60, based on the receipt Mr G 
provided. So, to put things right, Ageas should increase its settlement offer accordingly
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint in part. If Mr G and Mrs G 
accept, Ageas Insurance Limited should increase its valuation in line with what Ive set out in 
the putting things right part of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman