DRN-3801275
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claim made under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) about a timeshare bought using a BPF loan. 
Only Mr K was BPFs customer, so only he can bring this complaint to our service. But as 
Mr and Mrs K bought the timeshare together, Ill refer to both in this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a trial membership with Lion Resorts Limited (LRL) in 2006. This 
was an agreement whereby they could use two weeks of holiday accommodation with LRL, 
as well as getting discounts on flights and transfers.
In April 2007, whilst on holiday, Mr and Mrs K entered into a new timeshare agreement. 
They contracted with LRL to join Lion Resorts Club Akamas (LRCA). As members they 
were entitled to stay in a two bed apartment for six occupants in the high holiday period 
(the 2007 Agreement). The purchase price was £6,999, but that rose to £7,762 with added 
fees and charges. To pay for this, Mr K took a loan with BPF for £6,417.1 The loan was 
repaid in March 2012.
In December 2012, Mr and Mrs K entered into an agreement with Czech Invest Ltd (CIL) to 
purchase Lion Resorts Vacation Club (LRVC) membership. Under this they were entitled to 
stay in a two bed apartment in the high season on a bi-annual basis for one week (the 
2012 Agreement). The Purchase price was £6,999, but this was paid for by trading in their 
existing timeshare.
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs K, using a professional representative (PR), made a claim 
to BPF under s.75 CCA. It was said that in May 2014, Mr and Mrs K received a letter stating 
that LRVC had joined Onagrup Vacations Holiday Club (OV), which had nine resorts in 
Spain. Mr and Mrs K said that the following year they realised OV had taken over Lion 
Resorts and they were no longer able to make reservations in Cyprus, only Spain. They said 
this was a breach of contract and, under s.75 CCA, BPF were jointly liable for this breach. 
BPF didnt respond to the claim, so PR referred Mr Ks complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but didnt think BPF needed to do more to 
answer Mr Ks claim. He said the contract that had been funded by the BPF loan  the 2007 
Agreement  was not in operation at the time of the alleged breach in 2014, rather it was the 
2012 Agreement. But BPF couldnt be jointly liable for any breach as it didnt finance the 
2012 Agreement. He also thought that any complaint Mr K may have for misrepresentation 
under s.75 CCA or for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA would have 
been made too late to consider due to limitation.
In response, PR disagreed with our investigators view. It was said that Mr and Mrs K didnt 
apply to join LRVC in 2012, rather they were sent a letter enclosing the contract for the 2012 
1 It also appears that Mr and Mrs K traded in their trial membership to pay the balance of the cost.
Agreement. But Mr K told PR that he hadnt signed and returned the contract, so the contract 
was unilaterally changed without Mr and Mrs K agreeing. PR also said that Mr and Mrs K 
couldnt have changed their membership as they still had the original timeshare certificate 
and in PRs experience that needed to be surrendered to end a timeshare. And, even if it 
was found there was a new contract in 2012, that was a linked contract to the 2007 
Agreement, so it was part of the same transaction. Alternatively, there was a breach of 
contract in 2012 when Mr and Mrs Ks membership was unilaterally changed to LRVC.
As the parties didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. Having considered everything, I agreed with our investigators overall conclusion, 
but I came to it for different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision and invited both 
parties to respond to it before I issued a final decision.
My provisional findings read:
Before I set out my provisional findings on that issue, Ill briefly comment on any 
claims for  misrepresentation under s.75 CCA or for an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under s.140A CCA. When PR first made a claim to BPF, it only 
mentioned a breach of contract. And when the complaint was referred to our service, 
PR sent in a form setting out what the complaint was about. On the section titled 
how would you like the business to put things right for you?, it was written Review 
the Section 75 claim.
I think the only claim ever made to BPF was made under s.75 CCA and for a breach 
of contract by the timeshare supplier. So as no claim for misrepresentation or for an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship was ever made to, or considered by, BPF, I wont 
make any findings on a potential claim that hasnt been made. If Mr K wishes to 
make such a claim, in the first instance he would need to make it to BPF directly.
S.75(1) CCA reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So, a creditor can be jointly liable for a suppliers breach of contract, if the creditor 
financed the transaction in question. So it is crucial here to determine what 
agreement BPF financed.
Its not in dispute that BPF financed the 2007 Agreement, nor do I think its in dispute 
Mr K could make a claim under s.75 CCA should the supplier have breached its 
terms. But our investigator thought that the 2007 Agreement was superseded by the 
2012 Agreement and, therefore, any breach that happened in 2014 wasnt a breach 
of an agreement funded by the BPF loan. Having considered everything, I agree.
PR has said that Mr and Mrs K didnt agree to take out the 2012 Agreement, but that 
doesnt fit with the information provided. There is a letter sent to Mr and Mrs K by 
LRVC dated 5 December 2012 that states:
Further to our conversation today, please find enclosed paperwork regarding 
the upgrade of agreement number [NUMBER] to the Vacation Club.
May I kindly ask you to sign and return one copy of the membership agreement
The second copy of the agreement should retain for your records
Your management free for 2012 is now paid in full.
So I think it is plain that there was a conversation between Mr and Mrs K and 
someone from LRVC, following which Mr and Mrs K choose to change their 
membership. Further, when bringing their complaint, they provided to our service a 
signed copy of the 2012 Agreement, which I think shows they agreed to accept the 
offer of a change in membership  otherwise I cant see any reason to sign the new 
contract. It follows, I dont think there was any breach of contract in 2012 as Mr and 
Mrs K agreed to take out the new membership.
I think the two agreements were separate and for different things. The 2007 
Agreement was to buy LRCA membership from LRL and the 2012 Agreement was to 
buy LRVC membership from CIL.
Ive seen a document setting out what the LRCA membership benefits were, 
originating from the 2007 Agreement. It said that the club was located in Cyprus and 
the membership entitled members to stay at the club, i.e. in Cyprus. There is a 
similar document from LRVC setting out its membership benefits under the 2012 
Agreement. It said the Club was such that members could stay at any of the LRVC 
resorts (or elsewhere using an exchange programme). It doesnt say where the 
resorts are, but it also doesnt confine stays to just one resort in Cyprus.
In conclusion, I think the 2012 Agreement was for a different membership to that 
acquired in 2007 and, to get LRVC membership, Mr and Mrs K gave up their 
timeshare rights acquired under the 2007 Agreement. I cant see that the fact Mr and 
Mrs K may have retained the certificate originating from the 2007 Agreement meant 
that agreement wasnt brought to an end, particularly in light of the surrounding 
evidence available.
I dont think that just because Mr and Mrs K paid for the 2012 Agreement by giving 
up their rights under the 2007 Agreement, the two agreements are linked such that 
BPF could be liable for any breach of the second agreement. The transaction 
financed by BPF was Mr and Mrs K taking out the 2007 Agreement and, as that has 
ceased by 2012, BPF cant be jointly liable for the alleged breach of contract in 
2014.
BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add to my provisional findings. Neither PR 
nor Mr K responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party asked me to consider anything further, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman