DRN-3189685
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC earned commission from her trades through 
another broker without her knowledge or permission.
What happened
Ms G received an email from her broker, who Ill refer to as T, towards the end of 2019 
which told her about some changes to her service. It said, As a result, Barclays will no 
longer receive commission from any deals executed on your behalf after this date. Ms G 
complained that she hadnt been made aware that Barclays had been receiving commission.
Barclays said Ms G needed to address her complaint to T. It apologised for the delay in 
responding to her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld and couldnt 
conclude that Barclays had done anything wrong.
Ms G didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
T had investigated and compensated her. It told her that Barclays should do the same. 
She says Barclays should repay her all the commission it received and should pay her a 
goodwill payment for not disclosing its relationship with T.
She wasnt aware of the relationship between Barclays and T until late 2019, so she 
wasnt able to make an informed decision about the broker she chose to use for her 
certificated trading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going 
to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, this complaint is about what Barclays did or didnt do. I cant comment on the 
actions of Ms Gs broker.
Thirdly, during our investigation, Barclays suggested that this complaint was out of our 
jurisdiction and shouldnt be investigated by us. Our investigator explained why he thought it 
was a complaint we could investigate. As Barclays didnt provide any further comment in 
response to the investigators conclusions, Ive assumed that it has agreed with those 
conclusions. For that reason, I dont intend to make any further comment about the 
jurisdiction of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator 
for the following reasons:
Barclays ceased to offer certificated trading in April 2015. 
Im satisfied that Barclays sent letters to everyone who had previously carried out a 
certificated trade through its service and that this letter disclosed there was a commission 
sharing arrangement in place. But Ms G says she hadnt completed any trades through 
Barclays before. She had simply phoned Barclays when she wanted to sell some shares and 
the member of staff referred her to T.
I dont find there was any obligation on Ms G to use T for her certificated trades. It was her 
decision which provider she wanted to use. 
Its not clear exactly what was said during the phone call as it took place some time ago. 
I think it would have been helpful if, during the call, Barclays had told Ms G it would receive a 
share of commission on any trades she placed through T. Ms G says she wasnt told this, 
and I dont doubt her recollection. But Im satisfied that it was Ts responsibility to disclose 
the commission sharing arrangement with Ms G. And that she would have been aware of 
that information, from T, before she decided whether to use its services.
For that reason, I dont find that whether or not Barclays told Ms G about the commission 
sharing arrangement made a difference to the overall outcome here.
Barclays apologised about the time it took to respond to Ms Gs complaint. And it said that, 
for that reason, her complaint had been upheld. I think its response to her complaint could 
have been clearer that it wasnt upholding the subject matter that shed complained about. 
But I dont find that would have made a difference to Ms G referring her complaint to us, so 
shes not been inconvenienced by any lack of clarity in the banks response to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman