DRN-3357725
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc wouldnt agree to waive the early 
repayment charge (ERC) if they ended their buy to let mortgage early. They dont think the 
ERC is fair and have explained theyve experienced financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs S had a buy to let mortgage with Santander. Unfortunately they experienced 
some difficulties with the property and their tenant. The tenant stopped paying rent and Mr R 
and Mrs S took the tenant to court to repossess the property. They said that this resulted in 
them spending £18,000 in legal costs. They also have had to spend a further £17,000 to 
repair damage the tenant caused to the property. Mr R and Mrs S therefore decided to sell 
the property to try to recoup their losses.
But they were in a fixed rate period, so ending their mortgage early would incur an ERC. 
They asked Santander to consider waiving or reducing the ERC, bearing in mind their 
circumstances. They said that paying an additional £12,000 ERC would cause them great 
difficulty. 
Santander refused, so Mr R and Mrs S complained. They said it wasnt fair Santander 
wouldnt consider reducing the ERC. And they didnt think the ERC was fair.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. So Mr R and Mrs S asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr R and Mrs Ss difficulties and the costs theyve faced, leading them to 
conclude they had no choice but to sell the property. Im sure its been a very worrying time 
for them, and I can understand why they felt that a £12,000 ERC compounded their 
problems  and wanted Santander to consider waiving it.
But Im afraid I dont think Santander has acted unfairly. 
When Mr R and Mrs S took a five year fixed rate in 2018, it came with an ERC. The ERC 
was clearly set out in the mortgage offer and Im satisfied it forms part of the mortgage 
agreement, and that Mr R and Mrs S are liable to pay it if they end the mortgage before 
2023.
Mr R and Mrs S dont think the level of the ERC is fair. But Santander has shown us how it 
calculated the ERC, and Im satisfied it was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of ending 
the mortgage early.
When a lender offers fixed rates it does so based on a line of funding that it has raised and 
wishes to lend on. There are costs associated with raising funds, which Santander has to 
pay back (along with its own administration costs and so on). Those costs are fixed, and are 
covered by the interest payments received on the money Santander lends out. 
Where a borrower ends their fixed rate early  which theyre entitled to do  Santander then 
doesnt generate enough to cover its own costs. Its own costs may be increased if in turn it 
unwinds the funding mechanisms or the protection it put in place. Therefore, if a borrower 
wants to repay early, Santander will let them do so  but charges an amount to cover the 
losses that causes.
The difficulty is that  to make the mortgage offer clear and transparent to the borrower  
Santander must specify in advance the charge for repaying early. But it doesnt know when, 
or indeed if, that particular borrower will repay early, so it doesnt know what the costs are.
Therefore the regulator allows lenders to set a reasonable pre-estimate of costs. In simple 
terms, Santander doesnt and cant know, when it enters into the fixed rate, whether Mr R 
and Mrs S or any other borrower will choose to repay early. But it knows from past 
experience on average how many borrowers will, on average when they will, and what the 
average costs of that will be. It then divides those costs across all the individual mortgages 
in the group of mortgages covered by that estimate.
Santander calculated the ERC in this way in this case, and therefore Im satisfied that the 
amount of the ERC was fair and clearly explained to Mr R and Mrs S.
Ive also thought about whether  even though the ERC was not unfair of itself  it would be 
fair to ask Santander to waive or reduce it in this case, in recognition of Mr R and Mrs Ss 
particular circumstances.
I do understand that Mr R and Mrs S found themselves in a difficult situation, which was 
compounded by losing a further £12,000 on the ERC.
But its also true that this was a buy to let mortgage. Mr R and Mrs S were running a property 
rental business, and that sort of business always carries risks. Unfortunately those risks 
came to pass in this case, and I can understand why Mr R and Mrs S feel its unfair that 
theyve ended up in this situation.
But as Ive explained, the ERC is designed to cover Santanders costs. Reducing or waiving 
it would mean that Santander wouldnt recover its own costs. It would, in effect, be asking 
Santander to make a loss on its business so that Mr R and Mrs S make less of a loss on 
their own business. 
I appreciate that Santander has broader shoulders  and deeper pockets  than Mr R and 
Mrs S. But in lending them a buy to let mortgage it funded their property rental business; it 
didnt agree to underwrite their losses. Santander isnt to blame for the unfortunate situation 
Mr R and Mrs S have found themselves in, and I dont think I can fairly say that it ought to 
absorb some of their losses for them. I realise that this will come as bad news to Mr R and 
Mrs S, and Im sorry to disappoint them. But I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 Simon Pugh
Ombudsman