DRN-4001187
The complaint
Ms E complains about how Tesco Personal Finance (Tesco) dealt with her disputed 
payment claim for £4,500.
What happened
On 27 January 2022 Ms Es Tesco Mastercard credit card (credit card) was debited with 
£4,500, taking her credit card debt to £4,500. The sum of £4,500 was for the purchase of a 
seven day confidence and dating advice course (commencing 28 February 2022) for her son 
from a company that I will call K.
On 31 January 2022 Ms E paid £1,500 towards her credit card debt, taking her credit card 
debt to £3,000.
On 2 February 2022 Ms E paid £3,000 towards her credit card debt, taking her credit card 
debt to £nil.
On 11 May 2022 Ms E contacted Tesco to dispute the payment she had made of £4,500.
On 1 June 2022 Tesco declined Ms Es section 75 claim.
On 9 June 2022 Tesco declined Ms Es section 75 claim.
On 14 June 2022 Tesco issued Ms E with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Tesco said:
it was unable to raise a chargeback
it wasnt liable under section 75 due to there being no debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) 
agreement
it would, for poor customer service, credit £100 to Ms Es credit card account
Ms Es complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
having paid Ms E £100 for poor service Tesco didnt need to do anything further.
Ms E disagreed and so her complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
In February 2023 I issued my provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms E has very strong feelings about this complaint, and I can confirm Ive read and 
considered everything she has submitted. However, I trust that Ms E will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In this decision Im considering whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in the way it 
handled Ms Es request for getting her money back. In situations like this, Tesco can 
consider assessing a claim under section 75 or raising a chargeback.
section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there is a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. But there are certain criteria that also 
need to be satisfied, which includes establishing a direct relationship between the debtor, the 
creditor and the supplier.
The credit agreement here is clearly between Ms E and Tesco as it was Ms Es credit card 
that was used to make the purchase. This means that the credit provided by Tesco must 
have financed a transaction between the debtor (Ms E) and the supplier (K). The transaction 
however was one that was entered into by Ms Es son.
I accept that Ms E is her sons appointee and accept why she (rather than her son) paid K 
£4,500, but these reasons dont create a d-c-s agreement. Nor do these reasons allow for 
the requirement for a d-c-s agreement to be in place to be overridden or discounted.
I note that Ms E says she derived, or had the potential of deriving, a benefit from the 
transaction entered into by her son. But given the nature of the service being provided, 
which was a very personal one, Im afraid I disagree. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Tesco did nothing wrong in declining Ms Es section 75 claim.
chargeback
A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants. These disputes are dealt with through the relevant card scheme 
rules. In certain circumstances, the process provides a way for Tesco to ask for a payment 
Ms E made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where the goods or services arent 
supplied, not as described, or misrepresented by the company Ms E paid. 
It's important to highlight that there is no obligation on Tesco to process a chargeback 
through the card scheme even where Ms E asks them to. However, I would consider it good 
practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable 
prospect of success. Tesco says no right existed for it to attempt a chargeback. Now Im not necessarily 
persuaded by this argument, but I need to no make no finding on it because Im satisfied, 
that had Tesco considered everything that Ms E had submitted to it, including a very robust 
defence from K to Ms Es request for a refund, it would have been entirely reasonable for it 
to have concluded to not submit a chargeback on the grounds the same would have had no 
reasonable prospect of success. And on this point, I would reiterate that its for the business 
to decide if it thinks a chargeback will be successful, not the consumer.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Tesco did nothing wrong in not submitting a chargeback on 
Ms Es behalf.
other matters
I accept that Tesco has recorded on its systems the following:
Date 27/05/2022
Outcome Claim upheld
Close this case Yes
But even if I was to accept Ms Es interpretation of what this means, and I think what it 
means is open to interpretation, Tesco wasnt bound by this, and it was entirely free to 
decide, at a later date, to not uphold Ms Es claim which is what it ultimately did.
Tesco accepts that its service to Ms E was poor, and I agree. But Im satisfied that £100 
represents an appropriate sum for Tesco to have to pay Ms E in this respect.
Tesco responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add and that it 
had paid Ms E £100 on 15 June 2022.
Ms E responded to my provisional decision to say she didnt accept it and to say, in 
summary:
I acknowledged it was a seven day course, but seven days of training and coaching 
wasnt provided by K
when considering whether a service has been provided regard needs to be given to 
everything that was said and written by the supplier of that purchased service
section 49 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 states a trader must perform the 
services with reasonable care and skill
she had been advised by a solicitor that she had a strong case, and a chargeback 
would be successful
Tesco doesnt advise on its website that chargebacks are dealt with at [its] 
discretion advising instead that if purchases are nothing like they were described 
then you can make a claim for a chargeback
she had provided sufficient evidence that the course delivered was different to what 
had been described
Tesco gave a number of reasons for not raising a chargeback, all of which were 
without merit or foundation
she had been advised that Tesco was obliged to consider a refund claim under both 
chargeback and section 75, not one or the other
she derived, or had the potential of deriving, a benefit from the transaction entered 
into by her son. 
she disagrees that Tesco considered everything she had submitted in support of her 
claim for a refund
she disagrees that Ks refusal to grant her a refund constitutes a robust defencea later offer to provide her son with further services could be viewed as an 
admission of liability by K
Tesco confirmed to her that if it transpired it could and should have raised a 
chargeback (that would have been successful) but its now out of time to do so, it 
would take the fall [itself] and pay [the claim itself]
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ms Es response to my provisional decision very carefully. But Im afraid she 
has provided nothing materially new for my consideration or anything that I hadnt had due 
regard to when concluding what I did in my provisional decision. In other words, Im not 
persuaded that there is any reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm 
them as final. 
But for the sake of completeness, I would make the following comments.
Im aware of the various law that might provide Ms E with protection, and I can confirm that 
I had regard to all this law when coming to my provisional decision.
I dont dispute that Ms E was advised she had a strong case. But although I considered this 
advice I was simply not persuaded by it, and I can confirm that Im still not persuaded by it. 
Regardless of what Tesco says, or doesnt say, on its website the fact remains its under no 
obligation to process a chargeback even where a consumer asks for one to be raised.
I accepted that I wasnt necessarily persuaded by Tescos arguments for not raising a 
chargeback. 
I accept that its good practice for a business to consider a refund claim from a consumer 
(where the disputed payment has been made by credit card) under both chargeback and 
section 75 rather than one or the other. And I considered both options when concluding what 
I did in my provisional decision.
I appreciate Ms E will disagree, but Im still not persuaded she had the potential of benefiting 
from the transaction she is disputing, certainly not to the extent that I could reasonably 
conclude that a d-c-s agreement should be deemed to be present.
Where a consumer is in dispute with a service provider it isnt unusual for that service 
provider to offer some form of compensation. But such an offer doesnt constitute, nor should 
it be construed as being, an admission of liability. So, the fact that K has now offered Ms Es 
son further services doesnt persuade me that Ms Es complaint against Tesco should be 
upheld.
Had I found (after 120 days) that Tesco should have raised a chargeback and that 
chargeback would have been successful then I would have directed Tesco to meet Ms Es 
claim out of its own funds. So, I dont disagree with what Ms E says Tesco advised her on 
this particular point. But this doesnt help Ms E because this isnt what I found. 
I accept that Ms E believes she provided Tesco (and later our service) with sufficient 
evidence in support of why her refund claim should be, or should have been, successful. I 
also accept that Ms E doesnt believe Tesco considered everything she provided it and that 
in her view Ks defence to her claim (against it) for a refund wasnt particularly strong. But as I said in my provisional decision Im simply not persuaded Ms E ever had a valid 
claim under section 75. And had Tesco thought more carefully about whether it should have 
submitted a chargeback it would have been entirely reasonable (based on what Ive seen  
including Ks defence to the claim Ms E made against it directly) for it to have concluded that 
it would have had no reasonable prospect of success.
My final decision
My final decision is having paid Ms E £100 Tesco Personal Finance PLC need do nothing 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman