DRN-4210861
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that when they redeemed their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax, they were charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). They said they 
shouldnt have been charged, as theyd made all the payments due in the fixed rate period.
What happened
in October 2022 Mr and Mrs T were coming to the end of a fixed rate deal on their mortgage 
with Halifax. They had already made all the payments due under this fixed rate deal, each 
one on the first of each month. They got letters from Halifax saying they would start to be 
charged a higher rate of interest on 1 November. They wanted to pay the mortgage off 
before they started to be charged Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs T paid off their outstanding mortgage on 23 October 2022. But they told us they 
were then charged an ERC of £360.54. They didnt think that was right, they wanted to know 
how they could be charged an ERC even after theyd made all the payments. 
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the mortgage deal offer documents set 
out for Mr and Mrs T that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was redeemed on or 
before 31 October 2022. And there was a reminder of this on each of their annual 
statements. Mr and Mrs T had redeemed their mortgage on 24 October 2022, so they were 
then still within the ERC period. 
Halifax said Mrs T had told it she was wrongly advised about whether an ERC would apply, 
on a call on 13 October. But Halifax said it had listened to this call, and it had given correct 
advice about the ERC. It said Mrs T was told clearly then that she could pay off this 
mortgage on 1 November 2022, and not incur an ERC. But if she redeemed the mortgage 
before this, an ERC would still be payable.
Halifax said because Mr and Mrs T were still within their ERC period, the amount theyd paid 
wasnt enough to clear the mortgage in full. And Halifax said it wouldnt remove the charge 
over Mr and Mrs Ts property until the ERC was paid off. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr and Mrs Ts original 
loan documentation properly notified them that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage 
was redeemed early. 
Our investigator explained that an ERC is charged to cover the costs a lender incurs when 
someone comes out of fixed rate lending early. It has to be a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
costs of early repayment. But it doesnt have to be done on an individual basis, it can be 
calculated across a group of mortgages of the same type. 
Our investigator said, although Mr and Mrs T thought the ERC wouldnt be due because 
theyd paid all the payments due under the fixed term deal, the offer did say the ERC applied 
until 31 October. And our investigator said hed listened to the call on 13 October, and the 
agent clearly explained an ERC would be payable if they repaid the mortgage on or before 
31 October 2022. The agent then double-checked this with a manager, and confirmed that 
the ERC would be payable if they repaid before 1 November. 
Our investigator said Halifax didnt make a mistake in charging the ERC, and it wouldnt be 
fair to ask Halifax to waive this. 
Mrs T replied on behalf of herself and Mr T. She didnt agree. She said theyd already paid 
everything they owed, and she said this issue was affecting her mental health. Mrs T wanted 
this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this compalint as our investigator. 
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs T were properly notified of the ERC on 
their mortgage offer documentation. And I can see that they were reminded of this, each 
time their statements were issued. So I think that the charge Halifax applied, when Mr and 
Mrs T redeemed their mortgage on 24 October 2022, was charged in line with the 
agreement Mr and Mrs T had reached with Halifax for this fixed interest rate period. 
Mrs T said shed been misadvised on the phone about when an ERC would be charged. I 
can hear on the call she had on 13 October, that she said shed previously been given 
different advice, telling her she could pay the mortgage off before 31 October, and wouldnt 
be charged an ERC. Mrs T made a complaint about this previous advice on that call, and 
this was settled with a small payment of compensation. 
If Mrs T was given incorrect advice previously about how to pay off this mortgage without 
incurring an ERC, then it appears this advice was corrected, before it adversely affected Mr 
and Mrs T. I dont think Halifax has to do more to resolve that issue now. 
I can also hear on this call that the agent explained when the ERC on Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage would end. He checked this twice, the second time with a manager, and was both 
clear and consistent in the advice he was giving Mrs T. He apologised for any previous 
errors, but said that Mr and Mrs T were tied in to their current deal until the end of 31 
October. So any repayment before 1 November would incur an ERC. 
Mrs T said she thought she should now be able to repay, because shed already paid all the 
instalments due under this fixed rate deal. But the agent was clear this wasnt the case.
The agent also took the time to explain to Mrs T how she could repay the mortgage on 1 
November. And he said she wouldnt be charged the SVR if she repaid on that date. Mrs T 
was concerned about getting through to Halifax, and whether she would then be able to 
make a lump sum payment over the phone. The agent confirmed that she could use 
Halifaxs automated line to repay the outstanding amount on her mortgage on 1 November. 
I do think Halifax had clearly explained to Mrs T the implications of repaying this mortgage 
before 1 November. And it appears that the actions of Halifax since have been consistent 
both with the original offer it made to Mr and Mrs T, and the most recent advice it gave them 
on how to repay their mortgage. Im sorry to have to tell Mr and Mrs T that I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask Halifax to waive this payment now. I know that Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed, but I dont think that this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman