DRN-2130597
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts without notice.
What happened
Miss H had a current account with Barclays. In October 2019 Barclays closed her account 
without notice, causing her some inconvenience and embarrassment as  although Barclays 
wrote to her to tell her what it had done  she only found out when her card was declined 
while shopping. Barclays has since accepted that it should have given her two months 
notice, although it stands by its decision to close her account.
About four weeks later, Miss H opened a second account with Barclays. The letter Barclays 
had sent her when it had closed the first account had told her that she could not open 
another account with Barclays, and so Barclays has accepted that this new account should 
never have been opened. It closed that account, also without notice, in January 2020.
Meanwhile, Miss H had already complained about the first account closure. She says that 
Barclays did not respond to her complaint until mid-January. Barclays apologised for the 
delay. It offered to pay her £150 for each of these three matters, or £450.
Miss H brought this complaint to our Service, and complained about both account closures 
and about the banks delay in dealing with her complaint. She said she had given Barclays 
no reason to close her account. She also said that as a result of the account closures, she 
had missed a direct debit payment to the DVLA, which had resulted in the DVLA issuing her 
a civil penalty for £80. She argued that Barclays should refund this to her, and should re-
open her account.
Two of our investigators considered this complaint, but neither of them upheld it. They said 
that Barclays had been entitled to close the accounts, and although Barclays had made a 
mistake by closing the first account without notice, £450 was fair compensation for that and 
for the other errors  that is, letting Miss H open the second account, and the delay in 
dealing with her complaint. The civil penalty had been issued after both accounts had been 
closed, and after the DVLA had sent Miss H a letter telling her about the missed direct debit 
and asking her to make a payment. So the investigator did not agree that the civil penalty 
was the banks fault, but had happened because Miss H had not reacted to the letter. 
Miss H asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she had had other financial 
commitments and other problems going on in her life at the time, and she said not enough 
weight had been given to those issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since it is not in dispute that the bank made some errors, I only need to decide what is fair 
compensation for those errors. Rather than consider each matter individually, I will consider 
what is fair compensation overall.
I wont require Barclays to reinstate either of the accounts. Although the first account was 
wrongly closed without notice, Barclays would have been entitled to close the account if it 
had given her two months notice. If I ordered Barclays to give Miss H a new account, it 
could just serve her notice of its intent to close the account at the same time as opening the 
account, and two months later she would not have that account any more. So I think that 
money is enough compensation for closing the account without notice.
The second account should not have been opened in the first place. As Ive said, the letter 
about closing the first account told Miss H that she could not have a new Barclays account, 
so I think both parties are responsible for this. Although the terms and conditions do not 
directly address this situation, I still think that in these circumstances it was reasonable of 
Barclays to close the second account without notice.
Although it took Barclays longer than it should to give Miss H its final response to her 
complaint, Barclays did write to her on 18 December 2019 (eight weeks after she 
complained) to tell her she now had the right to complain to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, without her needing to wait for the outcome of Barclays investigation. It is not the 
banks fault that she waited until February to come to us. I would not have awarded her 
compensation for that issue.
Taking all of the above matters into account, I think that £450 is fair compensation for what 
happened, and is in line with what this Service would typically award. I will not increase it.
I will not order Barclays to refund Miss H for the civil penalty, or for the missed direct debit 
which led to it. That is because in early October, when the first account was closed, Miss H 
knew that her account was closed and knew that she would have to open a new account 
with another bank. It was her choice to open a second Barclays account, and when that 
account was closed in early January her direct debit to the DVLA was cancelled. She still 
had time to open a new account elsewhere and to set up a new direct debit, or to call the 
DVLA and make a payment over the phone. The DVLA wrote to her in February to remind 
her to make a payment, but she didnt, and so in March she was served with the civil 
penalty. I dont think any of that is the banks fault.
Miss H has told us about the significant difficulties she was facing in her personal life at the 
time  domestic violence and related court proceedings. I was sorry to read about them, but 
Im afraid that I think that those matters, rather than the account closures, are more likely to 
be the reasons why she didnt pay the DVLA on time.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Miss H to decide whether to 
accept Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman