DRN-3165015
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with a default notice sent by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc.
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs W acquired a car funded in part by a conditional sale agreement 
provided by Santander. The agreement was taken over 60 months with monthly repayments 
of £351.64.
Unfortunately, later Mrs W got into some financial difficultly. Over the next few months, five 
initial Direct Debit (DD) payments were returned unpaid but were successfully taken again a 
few days later. But in December 2019 a payment was entirely missed. Santander sent 
Mrs W two letters about this in December 2019, explaining the arrears were £386.64. On 
25 February 2020 Mrs W spoke to Santander on the phone about the arrears. She was 
again told the total arrears were £386.64 
It was agreed on this call that Mrs W would make her normal monthly repayment on 14 
March 2020. And then the arrears would be repaid over three months, beginning at the end 
of March 2020. Mrs W agreed to this and said it wouldnt be an issue. She was told on the 
phone that she would be issued a default notice if the account reached the point where it 
had two missed payments on.
On 20 March 2020 Mrs W received a default notice saying a balance of £1,089.92 was due 
by 9 April 2020. 
Mrs W complained to Santander. She said the default notice was sent incorrectly as shed 
agreed to a repayment plan.
Santander issued its final response. It said, in summary, that the payment arrangement was 
invalid as the payment due in February 2020 was returned unpaid. It explained a default 
notice was issued as the account had fallen two or more payments behind.
In April 2020, around a week after the date stated in the default notice for the arrears to be 
cleared, Mrs W called Santander and a payment deferral was put in place on the account 
until August 2020. Then in August 2020 the agreement was voluntarily terminated.
Mrs W was unhappy with Santanders response and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator issued an opinion and upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that 
Santander shouldve been aware Mrs W had missed the February 2020 payment when it 
spoke to her. He said he thought the reason the March 2020 payment was missed was 
because Mrs Ws DD instruction was cancelled by Santander which he thought it shouldve 
told her about. He said, had Mrs W been aware she needed to make the March 2020 
payment manually, she wouldve done so as she had the funds available in her account. So, 
he said he didnt think it was fair the default was recorded, and this should be removed.
Santander responded and said it wouldnt have known the February payment was returned 
as the DD was reapplied for on 21 February and it takes three to five working days for its 
system to show this. It said it was Mrs Ws responsibility to make sure repayments were 
made, and she didnt attempt to make February or Marchs payments. It also pointed to an 
SMS message it sent Mrs W on 19 February telling her the payment was missed.
Our investigator said this didnt change his opinion. So, the case was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mrs W and Santander a provisional decision on 14 October 2021. This explained that I 
was thinking of coming to a different outcome to our investigator and I didnt initially think this 
complaint should be upheld. Ive put my findings from this decision below:
What I need to consider here is if it was fair and reasonable for Santander to send Mrs W a 
default notice in March 2020.
Ive listened to the phone call between Mrs W and Santander in February 2020. And Ive 
thought about what Santander said about it not being aware Februarys payment hadnt 
been made at that point. But, even if I accept what it said about this, I still think it shouldve 
had a conversation with Mrs W during the call about Februarys payment.
I say this as, if its system wasnt showing the February DD had been returned once it was 
reapplied for on 21 February, I do think its likely Santander wouldve been aware the initial 
DD attempt from 14 February had failed  as this was 11 days before the call. Even if it 
wasnt aware of this, given what Mrs W told it about her situation it wouldve seemed 
sensible to me for Santander to at least have asked Mrs W if the payment had been made. 
And, although it isnt absolutely clear from the recording, I believe at one point on the call 
Mrs W mentioned that shed missed two payments, not one.
I also agree with our investigator that, given the above, Santander shouldve also made 
Mrs W aware that if her February payment was missed, her DD instruction would be 
cancelled, and she would have to make any future payment manually.
Having thought about this, Ive gone on to consider what I think wouldve happened had 
Santander done what it shouldve. Its very difficult to know what exact conversation 
wouldve taken place on the call if Santander was aware the February payment had been 
missed. Its fair to say this wouldve been a different discussion, as Mrs W wouldve been in 
two months arrears rather than one.
I accept its possible Santander may have defaulted the account earlier than it did if it was 
aware the February payment hadnt been made  I say this as Mrs W was told this would 
happen when two payments were missed. But, to be fair to Mrs W Ive considered what 
wouldve happened if I assume Santander would still have been willing to discuss a 
repayment plan with her. 
Mrs W told Santander that she would be able to cover Marchs normal payment on the call. 
Im satisfied, on balance, that had a discussion taken place about the fact two payments had 
been missed, Santander wouldve still expected Mrs W to make this payment on time. And, I 
think its most likely Mrs W wouldve agreed to this, given this is what actually happened. 
Our investigator said he thought the reason this payment wasnt taken on 14 March was 
because Mrs W was unaware her DD instruction had been cancelled and she needed to 
make this payment manually. He said, had she been aware, she wouldve done this. But, I 
dont agree here.
Our investigator said Mrs W had sufficient funds to cover the DD on 14 March 2020. But, 
having reviewed Mrs Ws bank statements I disagree. Mrs W told us her arranged overdraft limit was £500. I can see on 14 March 2020 her account was £344.26 overdrawn. So, if the 
DD instruction had remained in place, it appears this wouldve been returned unpaid. And, if 
Santander had made Mrs W aware she needed to make the payment manually, she didnt 
have sufficient funds to do this.
Even if the default was delayed until the DD wouldve been reattempted on 21 March 2020, 
had it not been cancelled, Mrs Ws account was £344.08 overdrawn at this point. So, again, 
the DD wouldve likely been returned and she didnt have funds to manually make the 
payment. 
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied on balance that if Santander had a discussion on the 
phone with Mrs W about her missed February payment and either left the DD in place or told 
her to make Marchs payment manually, this still wouldve been missed. This means Mrs Ws 
account would have three missed payments on and three months arrears. And, I think its 
reasonable that Santander would issue a default notice on the account at this stage.
So, even though I think Santander shouldve done something different here, I dont think this 
impacted Mrs Ws situation and I dont think it needs to do anything to put this right.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further information or evidence. 
Santander responded and said it agreed with my decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mrs W also got in touch and reiterated her original points. She also said this situation has 
caused a lot of stress and anxiety and it was very hard to give the car up.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mrs W that Ive carefully considered everything she said in response to 
my provisional decision. And, Ive thought about all of the other information on the case 
again. But, having done so, I still think this complaint should not be upheld. This is for the 
same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman