DRN-2739291
The complaint
Miss Y complains Lowell Financial Ltd are asking her to repay debts that arent hers.
A representative has helped Miss Y bring this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer to her 
in this decision.
What happened
Miss Y started receiving contact from Lowell regarding a debt they said she owed. She said 
shed never taken out any credit, so this wasnt her and Lowell were harassing her which, 
given she had some medical issues, wasnt OK. So, she asked us to look into things.
We contacted Lowell on Miss Ys behalf to raise her complaint, and Lowell replied to Miss Y 
directly. They said theyd bought the accounts, and when they didnt get any contact from the 
details theyd been given by the original owners of the accounts, and the credit reference 
agency, they carried out a trace. As a result of that, they were given contact details for 
someone with the same name, and date of birth, as Miss Y. So, they started to get in touch 
asking for repayments for the outstanding accounts. They looked at the contact theyd made 
trying to get in touch with Miss Y  but didnt think it was excessive or constituted 
harassment. 
Lowell added that theyd removed the phone numbers they had for Miss Y, though shed not 
confirmed the correct one. And although Miss Y wants them to stop contacting her, Lowell 
said they have to continue contacting her for a debt they believe to be hers. They added they 
couldnt see it was recorded incorrectly and the default was registered by the original 
providers. There were three accounts mentioned, but only two of which Lowell said we could 
look into because of the relevant rules.
Miss Y wasnt happy with the overall response, reiterating these debts arent hers and said 
Lowell clearly have either the wrong Miss Y or someone has opened the accounts 
fraudulently in her name. So, she asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so. She confirmed with Miss Y we could look at two of the 
accounts, but not the other as it wasnt covered under the rules were required to apply. 
Miss Y accepted that, so the rest of our investigators review was focused on the accounts 
we can look into. And, having considered everything, she explained she felt Lowell had 
acted correctly. She said Lowell bought the two accounts in good faith and it wasnt unusual 
to use a tracing service if the company couldnt get in touch with the owner. She said shed 
seen the information and was satisfied it was reasonable for Lowell to rely on this 
information. She explained if Miss Y thought the accounts had been taken out fraudulently, 
then shed need to go to the original providers of the accounts for them to look into things.
Miss Y didnt agree. She said shed never had a phone contract with the providers, shes 
never had a phone of the type Lowell are saying shes had, and never lived at the addresses 
quoted by our investigator. Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Before deciding Miss Ys case, I asked us to share the information Lowell had provided to us 
for Miss Ys comments. She didnt reply by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to specify exactly what Im deciding in this case. Miss Y has talked about 
the accounts being opened fraudulently. Id like to tell Miss Y I accept thats a possibility  
but thats not something I can decide. Lowell werent the original providers of the accounts 
theyre now asking her to repay. So, I can only consider whether Lowell are acting fairly and 
reasonably, based on the information I have, in asking her to repay the debt. Our 
investigator did ask Lowell if theyd spoken to the original providers about Miss Y saying 
these are fraudulent accounts. Lowell said they hadnt, because there wasnt enough detail 
to do so. Im not sure thats entirely unreasonable, as the original providers would most likely 
need to ask Miss Y for a lot of information to establish matters  and shes already made it 
clear she didnt want to share any information with Lowell.
So, as Ive said above, I need to decide if Lowell have acted fairly  and to do that Ill look at 
the information theyve gathered.
This includes a screen shot showing addresses linked to Miss Ys current address where 
Lowell have contacted her. And its clear they got her mobile phone number as well through 
this tracing process, as Miss Y isnt happy with that contact. In addition, Lowell have said the 
date of birth is the same for Miss Y as the person who took out the accounts, and its the 
same name.
Now, as I said above, I accept its possible Miss Y has been the victim of fraud as shes 
mentioned. But I think theres enough information here for me to be satisfied Lowell could 
ask her to repay the debt.
I also note Miss Y is unhappy with Lowells contact, which shes said was harassing. But Ive 
looked at their contact with her, and from my review it seems theyre simply asking her to get 
in touch to repay a debt they believe she owes. Shes said this contact is deteriorating her 
health  and Im genuinely sorry to hear how this situation has impacted her. But I think 
Lowells contact hasnt been unreasonable in asking Miss Y to repay the debt. 
I note shes also asked Lowell to remove the default. Lowell have said the default was 
applied before they bought the account, so if Miss Y has any concerns about the default, this 
would need to be raised to the original providers. And, given Miss Ys concerns about these 
accounts being fraudulent, if the original providers agree these were fraudulent applications 
then they may remove the defaults as part of that review. 
Our investigator said the other account wasnt one we could consider. Im not sure I have 
enough information to confirm that. But, as Ive found Lowell havent acted unfairly, I think its 
very unlikely Id uphold any complaint about the remaining account if I were to consider it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman