DRN-2317161
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with Cynergy Bank Limiteds handling of her ISA account. 
What happened
Mrs K opened an ISA account with Cynergy in June 2020. She experienced problems 
accessing the account online. She contacted Cynergy about the problems but at first it was 
unable to resolve the matter. Mrs K subsequently asked for the transfer of funds into the 
account to be cancelled.
Shortly after this Mrs K was able to log into her account online. When she did she was 
presented with a different persons account details. 
She made a complaint to Cynergy as she was concerned about the fact she was able to see 
anther customers account details. She said this amounted to a data breach and was worried 
her own details had also been compromised. 
Cynergy responded and apologised for the error. It reassured Mrs K that her own details 
hadnt been compromised and that it had contacted the affected customer. It offered her 
£100 to make up for the distress the matter had caused her.
Mrs K didnt think this was enough. She said she felt Cynergy had put her money and 
personal data at risk and this had caused her significant distress. She didnt think £100 
compensation was enough to make up for this. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
He said that although an error had been made, he thought £100 was enough to make up for 
the distress it had caused Mrs K.
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cynergy has accepted that there was an error with its systems that allowed Mrs K to view 
another customers details. It has apologised and offered £100 compensation. I need to 
decide if it has done enough to put things right.
Mrs K has explained that being able to access another customers account has caused her 
significant distress. She says she struggled to sleep that night as she felt it left her details 
vulnerable to other customers. I appreciate her concerns and can understand why it caused 
her distress. 
Cynergy bank has looked into the matter and reassured Mrs K that her details havent been 
compromised as a result of the glitch, so I hope this has offered her some reassurance. As 
her own details havent been accessed, I need to consider the impact seeing someone 
elses details have had. 
I understand this would have an impact on the trust Mrs K had in Cynergy. And it led to 
distress when she wasnt sure if it affected her own details. Mrs K also experienced 
inconvenience when she was trying to access her account and was unable to, as she had to 
contact Cynergy a number of times. However, I can see Cynergy resolved the matter 
quickly. Although it wasnt able to give her access to her account straight away, it was 
proactive and came up with a number of fixes for her to try. Further it was able to investigate 
the error quickly and offer reassurance that her own details were unaffected within a week of 
the account opening. So this would have reduced the distress experienced by Mrs K.
Mrs K has also explained that she opened the ISA with Cynergy to deposit savings that she 
has worked hard to accumulate. She says the error was particularly distressing as she felt 
her money wasnt safe. I can see that before Mrs K had accessed the account she had 
asked for the money transfer in the account to be cancelled. And this request was quickly 
actioned by Cynergy. So I dont agree there was a threat of her money being compromised.
So overall, I appreciate Mrs K has been caused distress and inconvenience by Cynergy. 
However Cynergy confirmed her own details havent been compromised and it has offered 
£100 to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused. This is in line with what I would 
have asked it to award, so I am satisfied that it has done enough to make up for the error. I 
therefore wont ask Cynergy to do anything further.
If Mrs K has concerns around a possible data breach then I would direct her to the 
Information Commissioners Office, as they ensure companies are correctly following data 
legislation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Cynergy Bank Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman