DRN-4013484
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about the service she received from Shawbrook Bank Limited after she 
was asked to provide information confirming the origins of money she had deposited with it.
What happened
Shawbrook contacted Mrs H to explain that as part of its due diligence process it needed 
evidence showing where funds had come from that had been deposited in two fixed term 
accounts. Mrs H has explained that one of the accounts had been funded by a previously 
maturing Shawbrook bond, and initially she was told that she wouldnt need to provide 
evidence for this account. However, it was later made clear that she did need to provide 
evidence for both accounts.
Mrs H says that she was confused by the information Shawbrook gave her, which came via 
phone and letter. In addition, Shawbrook told her to send the source of funds information by 
ordinary email, or by post. She was not provided with an option to provide this personal 
information by any secure means. Frustrated and concerned with the service she was 
receiving, Mrs H asked her son to assist her. After a redacted bank statement that was sent 
by post was rejected by Shawbrook, her son sent a secure email to the business but it could 
not open it. The required evidence was finally sent successfully to Shawbrook when it sent a 
link to Mrs H that allowed her to correspond via a secure email service.
Mrs H complained to Shawbrook about the customer service shed received. Shawbrook 
accepted that it should not have asked Mrs H to send personal information via unsecured 
email, and that it should have made her aware of the secure email service earlier. It 
apologised for this and offered £50 for distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Mrs H remained unhappy with Shawbrooks stance and brought a complaint to this service. 
She commented that she was not tech savvy, and Shawbrook should not have suggested 
to her that she send confidential information by unsecured email or by post. Mrs H said that 
in attempting to resolve this matter she felt scared and frustrated, and that Shawbrooks poor 
service had caused a lot of wasted time for both her and her son. She also said that the 
bank had verbally warned her that if she did not send the required information urgently, her 
funds would not be returned to her. This affected her ability to sleep.
When sending its submissions to this service, Shawbrook confirmed that it was willing to 
increase its compensation offer to £100.
Our investigator agreed that Shawbrook should have provided Mrs H with a means to send 
the required information via a secure link. His view was that the £100 compensation offered 
fairly reflected the trouble Shawbrook had caused Mrs H.
Mrs Hs son responded to say that Mrs Hs personal circumstances make her vulnerable. His 
view was that Shawbrook had placed Mrs H under coercive pressure to provide information 
via an insecure medium, and that £100 compensation did not fairly reflect the stress, worry 
and discomfort she had been caused. He also highlighted the length of time Mrs H had spent 
resolving the issue. Mrs Hs son asked that Shawbrook increase the compensation offered.
The investigators view remained that the sum offered by Shawbrook was appropriate in the 
circumstances of this case. Mrs Hs son asked that this complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook explained to Mrs H that to comply with its due diligence checks, it needed further 
information to evidence where the source of the funds that had been deposited with it were 
from. I note that Mrs H asked for clarification about whether such information was necessary 
for the account which had been funded by a previously maturing Shawbrook bond, and she 
says she was initially misinformed that evidence wasnt required for this sum. However 
Shawbrook later confirmed that source of funds evidence was needed for both accounts. I 
consider it was reasonable for Shawbrook to request this evidence as part of its due 
diligence checks. However, this dispute relates to the service Mrs H received from 
Shawbrook when she attempted to comply with its information request.
It is clear that the service provided by Shawbrook was poor. It initially asked Mrs H to send 
confidential information by unsecured email, or by post. The redacted information that was 
sent by post was not acceptable to Shawbrook, and Mrs Hs son had to intervene to help his 
mother send the information securely. Shawbrook then could not open the email Mrs Hs son 
had sent, and it was only after this that a secure link was sent to Mrs H so that the relevant 
confidential documents could be uploaded.
Our rules permit me to award compensation for distress and/or inconvenience caused to an 
eligible complainant, which in this case is Mrs H. They do not permit me to award 
compensation for inconvenience caused to a representative of a complainant, such as Mrs 
Hs son. In this case, I therefore need to consider what is fair compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience that has been caused to Mrs H, as a result of Shawbrooks poor 
service.
It is clear that Mrs H has been caused upset by Shawbrooks actions. I acknowledge her 
sons comments about Mrs Hs personal circumstances, and Mrs Hs description of the worry 
that Shawbrooks communications with her caused. Necessary interactions with a bank can 
cause inconvenience to a customer that is unavoidable, but in this case, Shawbrooks poor 
service clearly caused Mrs H unnecessary additional distress. However, in making an award 
for distress and inconvenience, I take into account the size of awards made on other cases 
with similar circumstances. Having done so, whilst I accept Mrs H was upset by the banks 
actions, overall my view is that the compensation sum offered of £100 is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
pay Mrs H £100 compensation (this amount includes any compensation that it has already 
paid to Mrs H in respect of this matter) for distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.
I make no other award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman