DRN-2549819
The complaint
Mr H complains The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (E&L), trading as 
The Insurance Emporium, have unfairly turned down his claim on his pet insurance policy.
As E&L are responsible for the outcome of the claim, Ive just referred to them in this 
decision.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr Hs pet became unwell and was taken to the vets where a diagnosis of heart 
disease was made. Afterwards, Mr H submitted a claim which E&L turned down. They 
explained this was because Mr H hadnt disclosed his pets heart murmur in February 2019  
which he was required to when taking out his new policy in June 2019.
Mr H explained he couldnt have told E&L about the heart murmur because his vets hadnt 
told him. He pointed to medication unsuitable for heart conditions being given to his pet by 
the same vet as evidence of him not being aware of these issues. So, he couldnt have told 
them because he didnt know. And he pointed to a policy term which said not telling E&L had 
to be reckless or malicious  neither of which this could be as he didnt know about the 
condition.
E&L reconsidered all of the information provided to them but maintained the claim wouldnt 
be met. They said theyd spoken to the vets who prescribed the medication, and they said it 
shouldnt be used if the pet has a compromised circulatory system which Mr Hs pet didnt 
have. So, the medication being prescribed doesnt suggest it was overlooked as Mr H had 
said. And, regarding Mr H saying hed not been told, E&L said there has to be an 
acceptance if a vet diagnoses a pet with a condition, they follow their duty of care and tell the 
owner. This is because it could impact on how the pet needs to be cared for, fed, or what 
clinical signs might need special attention. In addition, E&L said Mr Hs policy came to an 
end in May 2019, and a new policy wasnt started until around six weeks later in June 2019  
so there was no continuation of cover either.
Mr H went back to E&L saying the vets were unlikely to admit their error regarding the 
medication. And he reiterated the vets hadnt told him, so he couldnt have told them. But 
E&L wouldnt meet his claim, so he asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He noted Mr Hs point 
about the reckless or malicious term but said that wasnt the only term where claims might 
not be met  and there were other terms that were appropriately applied.
Mr H didnt agree. In response he said:
He knows about insurance principles like disclosure of information  and its been 
established he couldnt have known about this to disclose it.
The purpose of the clause where E&L may not pay a claim, firstly, says may be 
imposed, not will be imposed. But, in addition the purpose of this clause is when 
someone maliciously or recklessly doesnt disclose a material fact.
Mr H added that much of this would be incidental anyway as the heart murmur isnt a 
precursor to the more serious condition in July 2019  according to the specialist vet.
Mr H said the E&L have decided to not meet the claim by saying its not covered 
under the 2018-2019 policy  but given the condition claimed for in July 2019 isnt 
linked to the issue in February 2019, then itd be covered under the 2019-2020 policy 
anyway.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Itll help to explain that my role when considering a complaint about a declined insurance
claim is to assess whether the insurer has acted fairly in turning down the claim. So, to
decide this I need to look at the reasons E&L have given for turning down the claim
and determine whether thats fair under the policy terms Mr H took out.
Does Mr H not knowing about the heart murmur in February 2019 make any difference to the 
claim
Mr H has maintained the whole way through his claim process that he didnt know his pet 
had been diagnosed with a heart murmur. Im not sure hes proven his claim that he didnt 
know about this  as his proof related to the medication give to his pet, which his previous 
vets have provided an explanation for. That said, Ive not seen any reason to disbelieve him 
 as hes been clear and consistent during the course of his claim.
But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think whether Mr H did or didnt know about the 
condition makes any difference to whether E&L should meet the claim or not.
What are the relevant policy terms
E&L have relied on a condition which says If your pet has suffered from an injury, illness or 
condition that has not been disclosed to us at the commencement or review of the policy, we 
may place an exclusion retrospectively to the date of inception of review.
Mr H says this clause is linked to Where You maliciously and/or recklessly fail to disclose a 
Material Fact at policy inception, review or when making a claim We mayreject your 
claimendorse your policy. So he says that in order for E&L to not pay his claim for this 
reason, they have to show he maliciously and / or recklessly didnt disclose information 
about the condition from February 2019.
These two clauses are set out in the policy under General Conditions and are two of 15 
parts. When reading the policy, I dont believe that the two elements are linked as Mr H has 
said  each of the 15 terms appear to be distinct elements in their own right. So, I dont think 
E&L have to demonstrate Mr H maliciously or recklessly didnt disclose this information.
E&L have also relied on another term, which says under the heading of exclusions Costs 
arising from any injury, illness of condition whichfirst showed clinical signs before the 
commencement dateor related toan injury, illness, condition or clinical signs displayed 
before the commencement date
The terms E&L have relied on simply says if the information about the condition hasnt been 
disclosed to them  then they may apply an exclusion to the policy meaning they wouldnt meet a claim. In all the facts of this case I dont think thats unfair for E&L to have relied on 
this clause. Why they werent told is something Id expect them to consider  but bearing in 
mind Im looking at whether theyve acted fairly I cant ignore they werent told about the 
heart murmur from February 2019 until the claim was made. Because they werent told this, I 
dont think its unreasonable for them not to meet a claim for a condition showing clinical 
signs prior to the start of the policy in June 2019.
Are the heart murmur diagnosed in February 2019, and heart disease diagnosed in July 
2019, linked conditions
Mr H has argued the two conditions arent linked  and has pointed to the specialist he took 
his pet to in July 2019 as evidence of this.
As Ive said above, Id expect E&L to consider any points he makes here, and make 
appropriate enquiries as needed. I can see E&L did, and contacted Mr Hs previous vet to 
discuss what happened and ask for their opinion on whether the two conditions were linked. 
The vets came back and said given heart disease was discovered within five months, it 
seems likely they were. I note Mr H has taken his pet to someone else he describes as a 
specialist vet  and its not for me to dispute that. But, as things stand, E&L have been given 
information which provides what seems like a reasonable link between the February 2019 
heart murmur, and the July 2019 heart disease.
Would it be covered under June 2019-2020 policy
Mr H has argued that, regardless, the condition should be covered under the June 2019 
policy taken out.
But, hes made that argument because he doesnt think the conditions are linked. As Ive set 
out above, I dont think E&L have acted unreasonably in saying they are. Because of this, I 
also dont think theyve acted unreasonably by adding an exclusion for heart related issued 
to the start of Mr Hs policy. This means the treatment Mr Hs pet had in July 2019 would 
have been excluded.
Summary
Ive noted, and read, everything thats been provided on this case from all parties  and 
overall I dont think I can say E&L are acting unreasonably by relying on the policy terms to 
say they wont meet this claim. Im not a medical expert, I can only assess whether E&L 
have acted fairly  and for the reasons Ive explained above I think they have.
My final decision
It follows I wont be upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman