DRN-3651477
The complaint
Miss M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) charged her two
excess fees and failed to refund premiums after removing a named driver, following a claim
under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M took out her motor insurance policy with Advantage in March 2021. At the beginning
of August, she added her brother as a named driver. Shortly afterwards she had an accident
and made a claim to Advantage. Her car was deemed a total loss. Miss M bought a new car
in October and added this to her policy in place of the written-off car. At the same time, she
removed her brother as a named driver.
Miss M says Advantage has charged her two lots of policy excess at £400 each. She says it
told her there were two separate claims because she had reversed into a tree and then
driven forwards into a pole. She didnt think this was fair to treat it as two separate incidents
and didnt think it should continue to charge her for the additional cost of the named driver -
after the policy was updated in October 2021.
Advantage says it informed Miss M, when she asked it to remove the named driver, that
there would be no premium refund. It says it applied a £20 amendment fee at this time as
per the agreed terms. The final response Advantage sent to Miss Ms complaint isnt detailed
and doesnt comment on the excess charges.
Miss M referred her complaint to our service. She didnt think Advantage was being fair. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. She thought the policy terms meant Miss M neednt pay
for the part of the premium for the named driver  after she removed this cover in October
2021. She also felt the accident should be treated as one claim with only one excess fee
payable.
Our investigator considered Miss Ms status as an inexperienced driver. She also thought
the two impacts were related, as she had collided with the pole when attempting to free her
car from the tree. She thought it fair for the damage to be considered as the result of one
accident and Advantage should refund the second excess charge and the cost of the named
party premiums plus 8% simple interest.
Advantage responded to say it closed the second claim as a duplicate so only one excess
fee was paid. It says if Miss M can show otherwise it will arrange a refund. It says its policy
terms dont allow a refund of premiums where there is a fault claim on the policy, and it
wouldnt refund anything when removing a named driver in these circumstances.
Because Advantage didnt respond to our investigators request for further information, or
clarify if it accepted her view, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Miss 
Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about the circumstances of the accident as described by Miss M. I note her
view that its not fair to consider the damage was caused by two separate incidents.
But based on the information Advantage has sent to our service, it accepts only one excess
charge shouldve been taken. According to its records this is what happened.
We asked Miss M if she could show that she paid two excess charges. She says she has
realised only one deduction had been taken for the £400 excess charge. I understand Miss
M was initially told this would be dealt with as two claims. However, Advantage says the
second claim was closed down on its systems as a duplicate. So, Im satisfied that only one
policy excess charge has been paid and Miss M hasnt been financially disadvantaged by
this.
The next issue I have considered is about the named driver premium. Miss M removed the
named driver from her policy when she called Advantage in October 2021 after her accident.
This is when she added the details of her new car to replace the one that had been written 
off. I have read the policy terms to understand what is expected to happen here. The terms,
under the section entitled, Your rights to cancel this policy say:
What happens when the Policy is cancelled?
If the Policy is cancelled, any fees, such as the arrangement fee, incurred before
cancellation are non-refundable, as is the cost of your insurance for the number of days
you've been insured.
If the Policy is cancelled, your Insurer wont refund a Premium for any Car where a 
nonrecoverable claim has been made on the Car or any replacement Car during the Period 
of Cover. Where instalments are being paid under a loan agreement, the balance of the 
annual Premium and the cancellation fee (if it's 14 days or more since your Policy started) 
will need to be paid.
Miss M had an accident and made a claim a few days after she had added her brother as a
named driver to her policy. I can understand why, when she removed him in October 2021,
she expected to pay no further premiums and/or receive a refunded for any amount paid
upfront. But I think the terms are clear that when a non-recoverable claim has been made,
the balance of the annual premium remains payable. Miss M doesnt dispute that she was at
fault for the accident.
I have thought about whether Miss M was in an informed position when she called
Advantage and asked it to remove the named driver. The business was aware Miss M had
made a claim at the time of the call. I think its reasonable to expect its agent to refer to the
policy terms and explain no refund will be paid for removing the named driver in these
circumstances. In doing so Miss M was still paying the full cost but wouldnt receive the
benefit of the named driver cover.
We asked Advantage for a call recording or contact records to understand what Miss M was
told when she asked for the named driver to be removed from her policy. The business didnt
respond to our request.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Miss M was in an informed position when sheinstructed Advantage to remove the named driver from her policy. Her premium increased
from £122.99 to £272.36 per month when adding the named driver in August 2021. Had
Miss M been told the full premium was still payable, I think its unlikely she will have removed
the named driver and lost the benefit of this cover. Because of this I think its fair that
Advantage should refund the additional premium Miss M paid for the named driver. This is
from the date the cover was removed up to the end of the policy term. Advantage should
also pay 8% simple interest on this amount up until the refund is made.
In considering all of this I dont think Advantage treated Miss M fairly when not informing her
the premium was due to be paid in full. And when telling her that two claims would have to
be raised meaning two excess charges. Miss M has been caused distress as a result and
has been caused inconvenience when trying to resolve this matter. In the circumstances I
think £100 compensation is fair to acknowledge these points in addition to the premium
refund.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and that Advantage should:
 refund the additional premium paid for the named driver from when this cover was removed
up to the end of the policy term, plus 8% simple interest. *If Advantage considers that its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell
Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
 pay £100 compensation to Miss M for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
No further comments or information were provided by Miss M or Advantage for me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited should:
 refund the additional premium paid for the named driver from when this cover was removed
up to the end of the policy term, plus 8% simple interest. *If Advantage considers that its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell
Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
 pay £100 compensation to Miss M for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman