DRN-4062173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Covea Insurance plc unfairly voided their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr and Mrs H made a claim under their home insurance policy for a 
sewage leak. Covea arranged an inspection of the property to assess the damage but after 
some time, it declined the claim and voided the policy with a refund of premiums. It said it 
had discovered that Mr H had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) which he hadnt disclosed.
Mr H raised a complaint about this decision and the time Covea took to make it. Covea 
maintained its decision on the basis that had it known about the CCJ, it wouldnt have 
offered a policy to Mr and Mrs H. But it acknowledged that there had been failings in its 
customer service by way of a lack of communication and unreturned calls. It offered £150 
compensation to recognise the impact this wouldve had when Mr and Mrs Hs home was 
inhabitable.
As Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to our Service. But our 
Investigator didnt uphold it. He was satisfied Covea hadnt acted incorrectly or unfairly when 
making its decision, so he didnt think it needed to anything to put things right.
Mr and Mrs H disagree. Theyve told us:
Mr H wasnt aware of the CCJ registered against him in 2019 which is why it wasnt 
disclosed. Hes made enquiries with the court to have this set aside but due to the 
cost of doing so, he hasnt made an application as yet.
Theyve auto renewed their insurance for many years and hard searches have been 
carried out on their credit files each time, so Covea wouldve been aware of the CCJ. 
But it provided insurance without any issues until a claim was made.
 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H took out their insurance through a broker, who Ill refer to as S. From the 
information Ive been provided, it appears that whilst theyve auto renewed their insurance 
through S each year since approximately 2016, the policy with Covea only started in 
September 2022. So its likely that previous policies through S were with another insurer(s). 
On their renewal in September 2022, S sent Mr and Mrs H a letter with details of the new 
policy. It said:
Make sure you have the right policy
Its important that you check your details and other documents enclosed to:
Ensure that we have your most up to date information
Ensure that the new policy still meets your needs
Ensure that youre happy with any excesses and endorsements that may 
have changed.
The letter encloses, among other things, the policy schedule and the statement of fact. On 
the statement of fact, it sets out the information Mr and Mrs H has provided about 
themselves and the insured property. Within that document, it says:
Information you have agreed to as part of the policy
No one who is permanently living in your home and insured by this policy has:
been declared bankrupt or have any unsatisfied CCJs in the last 6 years.
I appreciate that when Mr and Mrs H answered S questions in 2016, this information 
wouldve been correct  as the CCJ wasnt registered against Mr H until 2019. But from his 
policy renewal that year, Im satisfied this information was no longer right or up to date. So 
he had an obligation to inform S of that and failing to do so is a misrepresentation of the risk 
he presents to his insurer, which  from 2022  was Covea.
Mr H says he didnt know about the CCJ. So Ive thought about whether he took reasonable 
care to avoid making a misrepresentation and I dont think he has. I say this because the 
CCJ had been registered against him for two years at this point and it wouldve been 
relatively easy for him to check his credit file to ensure that the policy information remained 
correct and up to date, rather than assuming it was. The renewal letter explained it was 
important that Mr H check the details and ensure they were correct.
Covea has provided us with its underwriting criteria. And whilst I cant share this with Mr H, 
as its commercially sensitive, I can assure him that Ive reviewed it and its clear that had 
Covea known he had a CCJ it wouldnt have offered a policy. 
As such, Im satisfied it was fair for Covea to void the policy when it found out about the 
misrepresentation. And as this was most likely to be a careless misrepresentation on Mr Hs 
part  rather than a deliberate or reckless one  its appropriate for the premiums hes paid 
since the renewal in September 2022 to be refunded. 
Mr H believes Covea knew about his CCJ from a credit search it carried out, but offered a 
policy regardless. Covea says it only carries out a soft search for identification purposes 
only, but Mr H has provided a quote from the renewal letter which says hard searches will be 
carried out. He also says hard searches are on his credit file. 
Ive considered Mr Hs concerns, however the quote hes provided from the renewal letter is 
from the direct debit  pre contractual information document. This document explains that 
as Mr H has opted to pay for his insurance on a monthly basis, hes entering into a loan 
agreement with a finance provider. Its the finance provider who carries out the hard 
searches, which it says are for an anti-money laundering assessment. 
I havent been provided with any information, such as screenshots of Mr Hs credit file, to 
show me that Covea carried out a hard search which wouldve shown it that he had a CCJ. 
And Im not persuaded that the finance provider wouldve shared any information it obtained 
with Covea. So I cant fairly say it knew about the CCJ and offered the policy regardless.My final decision
Covea Insurance plc has already made an offer to refund the policy premiums and pay £150 
compensation for its poor customer service. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Covea Insurance plc should refund the policy premiums paid from 
September 2022 until the policy was voided and pay £150 compensation. If its for S to 
refund the premiums, Covea should ensure this is arranged.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman