DRN-4049030
The complaint
Miss B complains Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
Miss B is represented by a claims management company. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by her.
What happened
Miss B was approved for a £2,000 loan by Everyday Lending in April 2019. The term of the 
loan was 24 months, with repayments of effectively £155 per month. Miss B complains this 
loan was irresponsibly lent. She says Everyday Lending did not complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks prior to the lending decision. She says had Everyday Lending done this 
it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to her and not provided it. Miss B says she has 
lost out financially as a result of this loan as she has had to pay additional interest and 
charges. Shortly after being approved for the loan Miss B entered into a repayment plan via  
a debt charity. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She felt that Everyday Lendings 
own checks had demonstrated that Miss B would only have a small amount of disposable 
income left per month. She felt this meant the loan was likely unsustainable, and taking the 
relevant rules and guidance which applied at the time, meant the loan was unaffordable to 
Miss B.
Everyday Lending disagreed with the assessment. It maintained that it had made a fair 
lending decision and that the checks it completed demonstrated Miss B could sustainably 
afford the loan repayments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint. 
Everyday Lending and Miss B are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail here.
All parties agree reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this instance. So I 
wont enter into much discussion here, other than to say I agree with they were. Everyday 
Lending completed an income and expenditure assessment, obtained bank statements and 
searched Miss B credit file (this showed Miss B had around £16,000 worth of credit). Whilst 
the credit file demonstrated that Miss B had some issues with some of her credit cards 
around six months prior to the lending decision, the rest of her accounts were being 
maintained in-line with expectations. Considering the relatively low value of the loan, Im 
satisfied these checks gave Everyday Lending a sufficient understanding of Miss Bs 
financial circumstances to enable it to make a fair lending decision.
With that being said, it wasnt sufficient for Everyday Lending to just complete proportionate 
checks  it also had to consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair 
lending decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring 
repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Everyday Lending say that after taking into consideration the information it gathered from 
Miss B that she would have had around £80 disposable income. It arrived at this figure by 
using Miss B declared income of approximately £1,700 and deducting her rent/mortgage 
payment of £465, payments to her existing creditors (approximately £570), its loan 
repayment and then using national average statistics to calculate Miss Bs living costs. It 
says this assessment demonstrated that Miss B could sustainably make the repayments to 
this loan.
Ive considered Everyday Lendings argument but in this instance, I disagree with it. 
Everyday Lending says Miss B would have sufficient income to meet the repayments 
sustainably. However, in coming to this conclusion it has relied on national average 
statistics, and it also worked out her repayments for her credit cards at a rate of around 3%. 
Im not satisfied using this approach to calculate Miss Bs affordability assessment was 
reasonable in this instance. 
The national average statistics are an estimation; and as such Im not satisfied they are as 
persuasive when considering the likely disposable income Miss B would have left at the end 
of each month. That is to say Im not persuaded they are reliable enough to suggest in this 
instance that Miss B would be able to sustainably repay the loan. This is enhanced when 
applying a reasonable repayment rate of around 5% (instead of the 3% it provisionally did) to 
Miss Bs existing credit card commitments; placing further stress on the likelihood Miss B 
would be able to meet this commitment sustainably.
Overall Im satisfied that the information Everyday Lending gathered as a result of its checks 
demonstrated that it was more likely than not that Miss B would be unable to meet the 
repayments of this loan sustainably. It therefore follows that Im not satisfied it made a fair 
decision to lend.
 
Putting things right
As Miss B has lost out financially as a result of Everyday Lendings actions; it needs to put 
things right. Everyday Lending has confirmed the loan account was settled in April 2022.
In order to do so, I require Everyday Lending Limited to:
refund all of the interest and charges Miss B has paid related to this loan; 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information in relation to this loan from Miss Bs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if 
she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman