DRN-3764002
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Grattan PLC, trading as Witt International, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs G applied for a shopping account with Grattan in February 2018. She was accepted and 
given a credit limit of £1,000. This was never increased.
Mrs G says that Grattan shouldnt have provided her with a credit limit of £1,000. She says 
she told Grattan that she didnt want a limit above £100 but that they ignored her request. 
She says she couldnt afford any more than £100 and that she got into financial difficulty as 
a result. Mrs G defaulted on her account in February 2022 and her debt was sold on to a 
third party the following month.
 
Mrs G also made another complaint about charges for late payments on her account. Our 
adjudicator explained that we couldnt look at that part of Mrs Gs complaint because it had 
been raised more than six months after Grattan PLC sent her its final response letter.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint about the credit limit afforded to her. Our 
adjudicator didnt think Grattan had done anything wrong in its lending decisions.
 
Mrs G disagreed. As Mrs G did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
While I do not directly reference every communication sent by Mrs G to this service, I would 
like to reassure her that I have read everything and taken into account all information which 
is relevant to her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Grattan 
acted unfairly and lent to Mrs G irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Grattan needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs G could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Mrs Gs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Grattan says it conducted creditworthiness checks and completed an affordability 
assessment before it provided Mrs G with her account. I havent seen the outcome of these 
checks. Mrs G intimates that she couldnt afford the credit and that is why she asked for it to 
be limited to £100. We asked Mrs G to provide her credit file and bank statements from 
around the time she opened the account. This would have helped me understand what 
Grattan PLC might have seen when it completed its checks. Mrs G did not provide that 
evidence, so I havent been able to fairly say that Grattan lent to her irresponsibly or 
unaffordably. 
In support of her case Mrs G has also raised various issues about the legitimacy of her credit 
agreement. For example, she has indicated that as her agreement only included her title, 
initial and surname, rather than her full name it is illegal. She doesnt indicate that she 
never made the application or that it wasnt her who spent the money on her account. I am 
not satisfied that there was anything illegal or unlawful about Mrs Gs credit agreement.
Mrs Gs main complaint, though, is that she told Grattan that she didnt want more than a 
£100 credit limit and yet she was provided with £1,000. Mrs G says that she included a letter 
to that effect when she made her postal application for the account. 
When Grattan provided its evidence to this service it included a note dated 28 January 2018 
in which Mrs G requested that her credit limit not exceed £100. I clarified with Grattan why 
this hadnt been actioned. It explained that the note it provided as part of its submissions 
hadnt been from its own records but was a copy which Mrs G had sent to Grattan when she 
made her complaint. At the time of opening her account it says it had no record of the 
request so its not clear whether Grattan received this.
Ive thought carefully about whether this makes a difference. However, even if Grattan did 
receive the note and failed to action it I also must take into account that not only did Grattan 
write to Mrs G when her account opened to tell her of her credit limit, but that Mrs G spent 
considerably over £100 on the account during the years that she maintained it. She received 
statements each month showing her spending and how much her credit limit was. If Mrs G 
had only ever intended to accept a credit limit of £100 I think she would have contacted 
Grattan to rectify this at the first opportunity and not several years later when she wasnt able 
to make repayments on her account.
So, on balance, on the information available to me, I cant be satisfied that Grattan received 
the note in question and while its possible Grattan made an error when opening the account 
with a credit limit higher than Mrs G requested, I think Mrs G also needed to act to rectify the 
error as soon as she became aware of it. I dont think Grattan acted unfairly by lending to 
Mrs G in these circumstances and I dont think Mrs G lost out as a result of anything Grattan 
did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. It follows that 
Grattan PLC, trading as Witt International, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman