DRN-3169475
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, (NewDay) irresponsibly provided him 
with a credit card and limit increases on that card, which increased his debt. 
  
What happened
In November 2013, Mr B applied for an Aqua branded credit card with NewDay. At the time, 
he had an income of £22,125 and unsecured debt of £200. His application was approved 
with an initial credit limit of £250. The card had an APR of 49.9%. 
Mr B was then offered credit limit increases. Each letter notifying Mr B of the increase gave 
him the option to refuse it. Mr B didnt do this and increases were made as set out below. Im 
not able to consider the sale or original lending, due to the time this complaint was made, so 
Ive focused on the things I can consider - the credit limit increases in the table below. 
Date Amount of additional credit New limit
10 March 2014 £350 £600
11 July 2014 £200 £800
9 September 2015 £800 £1,600
22 February 2016 £1,000 £2,600
29 June 2016 £900 £3,500
11 November 2016 £3,500 £4,600
The balance on Mr Bs card increased to near to his new credit limit soon after each 
increase. Mr B went above his limit more, incurring fees, and generally only made minimal 
payments, which didnt cover the interest and further spending on the credit card.
As payments werent made as they shouldve, NewDay sold the debt in September 2017.
Mr B complained to NewDay. He says at the time of his application his credit rating was 
poor, he had payday loans and a previous account with NewDay which had been defaulted. 
He also said the credit limit was being increased even though he was using a high level of 
his credit limit as well as incurring over the limit and late payment fees. He had a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) from March 2015 recorded against him and late payment markers 
and defaults were on his credit file along with evidence of him taking out a lot of other credit. 
He doesnt think sufficient checks were made before NewDay accepted his credit card 
application or proactively offered him the credit limit increases.
NewDay didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it offers credit cards to people who have poor 
credit, which can help customers improve their credit rating. To accept his application, it took 
into account that he was employed earning £22,125 with £200 of unsecured debt at the time. 
Also, the information from credit reference agencies (CRAs) showed Mr B didnt have any 
arrears or public records and the last default was 30 months before application.
NewDay said Mr B hadnt informed it of his financial difficulties. It said all credit increases 
had been correctly offered and Mr B didnt opt out of any of them.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint in 
relation to the credit limit increases starting from March 2014. This is because he thought 
further checks shouldve been carried out by NewDay and, if this had been done, it wouldve 
realised the lending wasnt affordable. He felt a fair outcome would be for NewDay to refund 
all interest, fees and charges applied to the account since March 2014 and rework it, paying 
interest on any credit balance. He also asked NewDay to remove any adverse information 
from Mr Bs credit file recorded by it since March 2014.
Mr B accepted the investigators view. But NewDay didnt. It said it relied on data submitted 
by Mr B and from CRAs. So, it didnt find it acceptable to apply the information from Mr Bs 
bank statements retrospectively when this wasnt required during the application or at the 
time of the increases. In summary, it made the following points:
1. At the time of the increases, there were no internal account arrears nor financial 
difficulty or affordability triggers with the financial bureaus. And there was a much 
higher spend on retail rather than cash withdrawals.
2. Although there were late payments and occasions where Mr B exceeded the credit 
limit previously, the increases still went ahead in line with NewDays policy.
3. In terms of the over-limit fees, NewDays policy is to exclude customers from limit 
increases where theyve incurred an over limit fee in all three prior months. For 
example, when the first limit increase was made in March 2014, only one over limit 
fee had been charged in February 2014. So, the increases were within its policy.
4. Mr B couldve declined the increases and didnt have to spend up to the cards limit.
5. Its important how Mr B managed the account is shown accurately on his credit file. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 October 2021 and an extract of my findings from this is 
set out below.
Taking into account the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, there are 
three key questions for me to think about while looking at Mr Bs complaint. These are: 
1. Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself the 
increases to his credit limit would be repayable by Mr B in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that the lending was affordable? 
2. Should NewDay have realised it was increasing Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, so shouldnt have provided the lending? 
3. Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
While I accept its for NewDay to decide its approach to credit risk when considering 
applications for credit, creditworthiness is also relevant to affordability and this isnt simply a 
matter of commercial judgement for NewDay. I note NewDay explains the card applied for by 
Mr B was designed for and aimed at customers who have impaired credit records. I think its 
important that NewDays responsibilities as a lender should be considered in that context. 
And, its due to the nature of NewDays target customer base for this product, that the 
importance of reasonable and proportionate checks cant be overstated.
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make but lenders should consider a 
range of things such as the type and amount of credit, the borrower's income and credit 
history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well their personal circumstances.
Mr B was initially given a credit limit of £250. As explained above, the initial sale of the card 
and credit isnt something I can consider due to when the complaint was brought to our 
service. Instead, Ive focused on the increases we can consider from March 2014. Increases in March and July 2014 
Ive considered the increases in March and July 2014 - when the limit went up to £600 and 
then £800 - together. This is because I dont consider these to have been unfair lending 
decisions by NewDay. Ill explain why.
NewDay looked at information from external agencies as well as how Mr B had managed his 
account with it. The noticeable change externally was a hire purchase agreement entered 
into in late 2013 but the credit file shows Mr B was maintaining his payments for this. 
Otherwise, there was also nothing of particular concern on his credit file from the first half of 
2014. Internally, NewDay knew there was one small cash transaction on his Aqua account 
and one over limit fee in February 2014. However, from the time hed had the credit card 
until July 2014, Mr B was using it for everyday spending and hadnt missed any repayments. 
So, I dont consider Mr B had been managing his account in a way that wouldve alerted 
NewDay to the fact that further checks would need to be carried out nor have I seen any 
evidence there was concerning information from external agencies to suggest this either. 
Another important factor in deciding what reasonable and proportionate checks are is how 
much the increase was and the overall credit limit. Neither the limits nor the increases in 
March and July 2014 were particularly substantial so this didnt indicate further checks were 
required. It follows Im not persuaded NewDay made unfair lending decisions in relation to 
the credit limit increases in March and July 2014. 
Increases in September 2015 and February, June and November 2016
Ive considered the increases made from September 2015 - when the limit went up to 
£1,600, £2,600, £3,500 finally £4,600 - together. This is because I consider these to have all 
been unfair lending decisions by NewDay. Ill explain why.
External information from soon after the July 2014 increase shows someone who is 
struggling to manage their finances. By late 2014, two accounts were in a debt management 
plan and another was in an arrangement to pay. Payday loans and other forms of short-term 
lending are also shown from 2014 including one with overdue payments. This situation 
deteriorated further in 2015. By the time of the September 2015 offer, Mr B had a further 
CCJ against him from March 2015 and his unsecured debt had also increased significantly. 
In late 2015, a further account is defaulted while another enters an arrangement to pay.
By September 2015, internal information shows, over a sustained period of nearly two years, 
Mr B hadnt been handling his account responsibly. He quickly reached and remained at his 
credit limits very soon after the card was issued and the limits were increased. And he was 
only making minimal payments. The way he managed the account didnt improve either. By 
November 2015, cash withdrawals and over limit fees were a regular feature and, in May 
2016, betting transactions appear. Mr Bs spending on the card exceeds his repayments to it 
and the difference between what he spent and what he repaid was increasing. 
As mentioned, an important factor in deciding what reasonable and proportionate checks are 
is how much the increase was and the overall limit. The increase offered in September 2015 
was double the credit Mr B had and a substantial amount - more than Mr Bs net monthly 
salary. By November 2016, the limit was more than 3 times his monthly salary and 18 times 
more than his original limit despite a deterioration in his financial situation in this time.
The amount of the increases and overall credit limits in addition to the internal and external 
data paints a picture of Mr Bs increasing financial difficulties which shouldve caused 
NewDay to realise hed struggle to sustainably repay the credit balance he already had, let alone any increase to this, over a reasonable period. It follows NewDay didnt make a fair 
lending decision when it offered to increase Mr Bs credit limit in September 2015 and 
February, June and November 2016.
 
I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
NewDay responded to the provisional decision to confirm they agree with the provisional 
decision. 
Mr B replied. He says that, although the provisional decision says the only notable difference 
on his credit report at the time of the first two increases in March and July 2014 was the hire 
purchase agreement, there was a number of additional lines of credit including payday loans 
and mail order accounts being opened from November 2013 through to July 2014.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
I note Mr B says there were additional lines of credit including payday loans, short term 
lending and mail order accounts being opened by him from November 2013 through to July 
2014. I looked at the specific examples Mr B mentioned  those taken out or reported after 
the increase was offered wouldnt have been on his credit file so Ive only considered those 
which wouldve been visible before the March and July 2014 increases were offered.
As I explained in my provisional decision, NewDay looked at information from external 
agencies as well as how Mr B had managed his account with it. Having done so, whilst I 
agree it wouldve seen some payday loans and other forms of short-term credit, this wouldnt 
automatically prevent Mr B from reasonably being offered an increase by NewDay. Further, 
Mr B was using the payday loans and short-term credit as would be expected. The payday 
loans were taken out and settled the same month and the other forms of credit dont show 
any issues on the credit file until much later. So, I dont think this wouldve raised particular 
concerns on his credit file from the time before he was offered the first two increases.
In addition, NewDay knew from internal information that until July 2014, Mr B was using his 
credit card for everyday spending and hadnt missed any repayments. So, I dont consider 
Mr B had been managing his account in a way that wouldve alerted NewDay to the fact that 
further checks would need to be carried out nor have I seen any evidence there was 
concerning information from external agencies to suggest this either. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision, another important factor in deciding what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are is how much the increase was and the overall 
credit limit. Neither the limits nor the increases in March and July 2014 were particularly 
substantial so this didnt indicate further checks were required. 
It follows that my decision remains that Im not persuaded NewDay made unfair lending 
decisions in relation to the credit limit increases in March and July 2014. However, NewDay 
didnt make a fair lending decision when it offered to increase Mr Bs credit limit in 
September 2015 and February, June and November 2016 and so it needs to put this right.
I accept Mr B will be disappointed my decision on the first two credit limit increases hasnt 
changed, but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear. My decision now ends what we  
in trying to resolve his dispute with Halifax  can do for him.Putting things right
Its fair NewDay put Mr B in the same position he was in before the increase to the credit 
limit on 9 September 2015. In order to put things right, NewDay should: 
1. Remove all interest, fees, and charges (including late payment and over limit fees) 
applied to the account from 9 September 2015 and then rework it.
2. For any period the account was in credit, 8% simple interest should be added to the 
amount of credit until it went out of credit or the date of settlement. 
3. If an outstanding balance remains on Mr Bs account once all adjustments have been 
made, NewDay should  if it bought the account back from the third party - contact 
Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan.
4. NewDay should remove adverse information from Mr Bs credit file which it reported 
since 9 September 2015 in relation to Mr Bs Aqua account.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
NewDay sold the outstanding balance on Mr Bs account to a third-party debt purchaser. So, 
it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the necessary 
adjustments or pay an amount to the third party in order for it to do this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. NewDay Ltd must take the steps 
set out above to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman