DRN-3489209
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined their claim for 
subsidence on their home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had home insurance with Ageas. In June 2021 they made a claim for 
subsidence after noticing their conservatory was moving away from the main building. 
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster and subsequently declined the claim. It said the damage 
was due to lateral movement of the retaining wall which was pushing down on the soil where 
the conservatory was built, making it unstable. It said this meant the damage was due to 
settlement which was excluded from cover under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was fair. They instructed their own expert to inspect the 
damage. He concluded that the damage was due to lateral movement of the retaining wall, 
however thought it unfair that Ageas had declined the claim on what he thought was a 
technicality as the structure was subsiding. 
Mr and Mrs C made a complaint to Ageas and provided their expert report. However this 
didnt change Ageas position. It said their expert report agreed with the causation its loss 
adjuster had identified. And settlement was excluded under cover so its declinature was fair.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he thought Ageas had fairly applied the exclusion for settlement in the policy. And that 
both expert reports supported this conclusion.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim as it says the damage to their conservatory is 
caused by settlement rather than subsidence and this is excluded under policy cover. 
I can see the subsidence cover in the policy excludes damage caused by settlement. It 
states under what is not insured:
Loss or damage: to the buildings or their foundations by settlement, unless the settlement is 
caused by subsidence of the site on which the buildings stand;
I need to decide if Ageas has done enough to prove this exclusion applies and if its acted 
fairly by applying it in this case.
As part of the claim, two expert reports have been provided  one from Ageas and one from 
Mr and Mrs C. Both conclude that the damage to the conservatory has been caused by 
lateral movement of the retaining wall that has caused additional pressure onto the soil 
causing the conservatory to move. As both reports agree, Im satisfied that this is the likely 
cause of the damage.
However Mr and Mrs Cs expert comments in their report that they think it is unfair to decline 
the claim as the property has subsided so it has been declined on a technicality. 
Ive considered this but I dont think its enough to say Ageas has acted unfairly by relying on 
the exclusion. The policy defines settlement as Downward movement as a result of the soil 
being compressed by the weight of the buildings. And both reports have concluded that the 
lateral movement of the retaining wall has caused the conservatory to compress the soil 
beneath. And have not referred to any other external factors that may have caused 
subsidence. So it seems most likely that the weight of the structure is causing the 
movement. And this meets the definition of settlement in the policy. 
While subsidence occurs when there is downward movement of the ground, this is where it 
is caused by other external factors and not purely because of the weight of the structure 
itself. When the movement is just caused by the weight itself, this is generally described as 
settlement. Mr and Mrs Cs policy explicitly outlines this in its definition of subsidence, which 
is defined as: Downward movement of the ground beneath the buildings other than by 
settlement.
As both reports have concluded the same cause of the damage, and this meets the policy 
definition of settlement, Im satisfied Ageas has acted fairly by applying the exclusion here. 
Based on this, I wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman