DRN-3490560
The complaint
Mr W and Miss B complain about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc treated them at 
the end of their interest only mortgage term.
 
What happened
In 2007, Mr W and Miss B took out an interest only mortgage with RBS. The mortgage was 
for total borrowing of £350,000 and had a term of 11 years. The mortgage expired, with the 
full balance due to be repaid, in June 2018. 
Mr W and Miss B were colleagues and decided to purchase the property to live in but also as 
an investment as house prices were increasing. Unfortunately, due to ill health Miss B 
returned to her country of origin around March 2017 and since then the mortgage has been 
maintained solely by Mr W. 
In March 2017, Mr W contacted RBS and explained Miss B was no longer making payments 
due to health reasons. He enquired about extending the mortgage term or completing a 
transfer of equity and then extending the term. Mr W also explained that he would look to 
place the house on the market before the end of the term to sell it and pay off the mortgage 
 saying he was taking action now due to the health concerns of Miss B. No application for a 
term extension or transfer of equity took place at this time. 
RBS agree a 12-month extension to the mortgage in February 2018 giving a new mortgage 
expiry date of June 2019. RBS says this was agreed following previous contact by Mr W in 
October 2017 where he had explained he would ideally like to extend the mortgage term to 
allow him to sell the property. It says at this time Mr W also explained he had previously tried 
to sell the property but without success. 
In February 2019, Mr W contacted RBS to explain the property had been valued and it was 
in negative equity. RBS went through the options available to Mr W for his situation (the 
property being in negative equity) including the Assisted Voluntary Sale (AVS) scheme. RBS 
agreed to send Mr W information on the scheme and made a note this is what he wanted to 
do once the term had ended. 
Following the end of the mortgage term RBS sent Mr W the AVS scheme pack  which 
explains the process. Mr W and Miss B agreed to proceed with the AVS scheme and the 
property was sold in February 2021 for £260,000  leaving a shortfall of just over £90,000. 
Mr W and Miss B complained. In summary, theyre unhappy because:
- RBS didnt help them once the mortgage term had ended. They say it refused to 
extend the mortgage term and transfer the mortgage into Mr Ws name only  forcing 
them to use the AVS scheme.
- RBS undersold the property via the AVS scheme and didnt keep them updated 
about the sale of the property.  
- RBS didnt make them aware of the shortfall remaining after the property was sold or 
that they would be liable to repay it until about a year after the property sold. 
- RBS breached the terms and conditions of the mortgage by continuing to claim the 
monthly payments after the mortgage term had ended. 
RBS responded explaining that Mr W and Miss B never submitted an application to extend 
the mortgage term or transfer the mortgage into Mr Ws name only. It said it had granted a 
12-month extension to allow Mr W to sell the property and also provided information on the 
AVS scheme before Mr W and Miss B decided to enter it  including that they would remain 
liable for any shortfall. RBS said the agents selling the property liaised with Mr W and Miss B 
throughout the process and the property sold for a reasonable price considering the market 
conditions at the time  a price Mr W and Miss B agreed to.
It acknowledged there had been a delay in contacting Mr W and Miss B about the shortfall 
but explained this had been caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. RBS also referenced that the 
potential shortfall had been discussed with Mr W before the sale in September 2020. It also 
explained there had been no breach of contract by it continuing to collect payments after the 
mortgage term had ended as there was an outstanding balance. In recognition of any trouble 
and upset caused, it arranged for £100 compensation to be sent by cheque. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and felt the £100 compensation was fair. They 
said RBS had tried to help Mr W and Miss B by extending the term of the mortgage to allow 
for a sale to take place and hadnt forced them into entering the AVS scheme. They didnt 
agree RBS had undersold the property and felt Mr W and Miss B were regularly updated by 
the agent selling the property. They also said they felt Mr W and Miss B were made aware of 
the shortfall and RBS was entitled to continue collecting payments once the mortgage term 
had ended. 
Mr W and Miss B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Mr W said the 
Investigators opinion didnt capture the insincerity or motives of RBS  and its failure to 
apply reasonable due diligence throughout the process. He also said the opinion was based 
purely on RBSs records and notes.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease I will explain my reasoning and address each of Mr W and Miss Bs complaint 
points outlined above under separate headings.
RBSs treatment of Mr W and Miss B at the end of their mortgage term
Mr W and Miss B took out an interest only mortgage for £350,000 in 2007. The original term 
expired in June 2018 at which point the full outstanding balance became payable, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage, to RBS.I dont think its unreasonable for RBS to expect payment of the mortgage in line with the 
terms and conditions. However, where a customer may struggle to repay the mortgage by 
the agreed date, I would expect RBS to work with a customer to come to a suitable 
agreement to repay the outstanding balance. Having reviewed the available information, I 
think RBS did  Ill explain why. 
Mr W contacted RBS in March 2017 to discuss extending the term and transferring the 
mortgage into his name only. RBS explained what would be involved with an application, 
such as affordability assessments and stress testing. Its not unreasonable that RBS would 
want to ensure Mr W could afford the mortgage on his own, or that he had the means to 
repay the mortgage at the end of an extended term, so I dont think they did anything wrong 
by informing him of the process. In any case, Mr W still had just over a year left on his 
mortgage term and decided not proceed with an application at this stage, so I cant say RBS 
unfairly declined an application  this is because no application took place. 
Mr W next contacted RBS in October 2017 saying he would like to extend the mortgage term 
to give him time to try and sell the property. RBS agreed to a 12-month extension in 
February 2018 to allow Mr W time to sell the property and repay the outstanding balance. I 
think this shows RBSs willingness to work with Mr W to repay the balance  and is what I 
would have expected RBS to agree to in the circumstances. 
Unfortunately, Mr W was unable to sell the property and he contacted RBS in February 2019 
to inform it of this and to explain that the property was in negative equity. At this point RBS 
explained to Mr W his options and he decided to enter the AVS scheme. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest Mr W was forced into entering this scheme or that he requested any 
other options at this stage  such as another term extension. Therefore, I dont think RBS 
treated Mr W and Miss B unfairly by agreeing to the request to enter the AVS scheme  as 
ultimately this is what they wanted to do.
Price the property was sold at in the AVS scheme and communication about the sale
The AVS scheme is an option a customer can choose where they receive assistance in 
selling their property. It is designed to help customers who are experiencing financial 
hardship to sell their property and is an alternative to court proceedings and eviction. 
The key benefits of the scheme are that the customer can remain in the property whilst it is 
being sold, the bank will meet estate agent and solicitor conveyancing costs up to £10,000, 
and the customer will have access to the banks nominated panel of estate agents and 
solicitors.
I appreciate that Mr W and Miss B have said they werent kept informed by RBS about the 
sale of the property. However, having read the key conditions of the scheme Ive found 
nothing which says that RBS would keep them regularly updated about the sale. In fact, a 
key aspect of the scheme is that Mr W and Miss B would have a specifically appointed Asset 
Manager and Solicitor, separate to RBS, to communicate with throughout the process. 
Ive been provided with the correspondence between Mr W and Miss B and the agents 
appointed under the scheme. Having read these, I dont agree they werent kept up to date 
about the progress of the sale or the offers received. There is clear correspondence between 
the parties discussing these points  with Mr W and Miss B ultimately having the final say on 
the sale of the property. 
Mr W and Miss B dispute the price the property was sold for  with Mr W saying he could 
have achieved a higher price than the AVS scheme did. When a customer enters the AVS 
scheme I would expect a duty of care to try and sell the property at the best possible price.  RBS doesnt have the expertise to value a property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. 
I would expect the surveyor to be suitably qualified  a requirement which was met by 
appointing a member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). I can also see 
that an Estate Agent Appraisal took place with both the surveyor and estate agent valuing 
the property at £270,000.
Its not unreasonable for RBS to rely on the information provided by a suitably qualified 
surveyor and industry expert. The property eventually sold for £260,000 which is less than 
the valuation provided. However, I dont think this was unreasonable when looking at the 
circumstances. 
Firstly, Mr W had previously tried to sell the property for a year without success and the 
report indicated that the longer the property was on the market the more the value would 
decrease  evidenced by the projected market value for a sale after 90 days being 
£245,000. It was initially recommended that the property be marketed at £265,000 and an 
offer was received for £260,000. And at the time of the offer there were no other interested 
parties or viewings scheduled. 
Taking this into consideration, I dont think it was unreasonable for the agents to suggest Mr 
W and Miss B consider the offer. Any further delay to selling the property would have 
resulted in further costs for Mr W and Miss B. In any case, as mentioned above, ultimately it 
was Mr W and Miss Bs decision whether or not to accept the offer  and they decided to 
accept it. 
Remaining shortfall and RBSs communication about it
I appreciate Mr W and Miss B are unhappy they remain responsible for the shortfall, but I am 
satisfied that RBS is entitled to ask them to pay it. Ill explain why.
Mr W and Miss B took out a mortgage of £350,000 with RBS in 2007. The conditions of this 
mortgage were that they would repay the full outstanding balance at the end of the term, so I 
think its fair that this money is repaid to RBS. Unfortunately, the sale of the property didnt 
cover the full outstanding balance, but this doesnt mean that Mr W and Miss B are no longer 
liable for this. They borrowed the money, so it is only fair they repay it. 
I also think that before entering the AVS scheme Mr W and Miss B were fully aware they 
would be responsible for any shortfall from the sale of the property. The contact notes 
indicate both Mr W and Miss B had discussions with RBS about a potential shortfall before 
the property was sold and the AVS scheme documentation made it clear they would still be 
liable for any shortfall after the property was sold. So, whilst I understand their 
disappointment that they remain liable I cant say they were unaware. 
Mr W and Miss B have also said that it took RBS approximately a year to inform them of the 
shortfall. RBS has accepted this was the case and explained this was due to delays caused 
by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
I can understand that the Covid-19 pandemic affected the time it took for RBS to contact 
Mr W and Miss B about the shortfall. The pandemic was an unprecedented event which 
impacted many businesses operations and caused delays. However, I do think being 
contacted a year after the property had sold about a shortfall was too long and caused Mr W 
and Miss B some upset  and I think they should be compensated for this. But I dont think 
this means they are no longer responsible for the shortfall because as I have said, they were 
aware there would be a shortfall from the beginning  and it is money which they always 
would have owed. RBS has offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances, as I think it takes into account the delay Mr W and Miss B experienced 
with regards to RBS contacting them about the shortfall.
RBS collecting monthly payments once the mortgage term had ended
Mr W has raised concerns that RBS continued to take monthly payments once the mortgage 
term had come to an end. He says this is a breach of the terms and conditions as there was 
no longer a contract in place. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions for Mr W and Miss Bs mortgage, and Im satisfied 
RBS are able to continue charging interest on the outstanding balance until the loan is 
repaid. It isnt unusual for a bank to do this whilst a loan amount remains outstanding and 
this was explained to Mr W in April 2019 when he contacted RBS and queried the matter. 
Additionally, when Mr W and Miss B entered the AVS scheme the letter explained that they 
would need to continue making the current monthly payments until the mortgage had been 
repaid. So, Im satisfied they were aware the monthly payments would continue whilst on the 
scheme.
 
My final decision
My decision is that the £100 offered by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc for the trouble and 
upset caused is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This should be paid to Mr W 
and Miss B if it has not already been paid.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman