DRN-1671797
 
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, who administer her Post Office Credit Card, 
charged interest on her account. 
What happened
In October 2018 Ms C made several purchases using her Post Office credit card. These 
came to £1,329.03 and, on 16 November, Ms C paid £1,327 to her account.
Ms C has complained that, from her December statement onwards, shes been charged 
interest on the purchases on her account. She doesnt believe this is fair, as the payment 
she made on 16 November shouldve been allocated to the highest interest-bearing balance, 
which was the October purchases, and not the outstanding 0% promotional rate balance on 
her account.
Our investigator said that Post Office had acted reasonably. He said that Ms C had made the 
payment on 16 November, but her statement showing the purchases wasnt produced until 
20 November. Because of this, Post Office applied the payment to the outstanding balance 
on Ms Cs account at the time, and not the purchases  these hadnt been applied to her 
account at the time of the payment. So he didnt think Post Office needed to do anything.
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. She says she had a balance outstanding of almost 
£3,600, which was on a 0% promotional rate of interest until July 2019. But, because of the 
payment she paid in November 2018, she says that Post Office then charged her interest on 
the whole £3,600, which she thinks is unfair. 
And she thinks its unfair that Post Office charged any interest on a balance that wasnt 
supposed to be charged interest until July 2019. She considers that this makes it an unfair 
relationship under the Consumer Credit Act. She also unhappy that the statements she 
receives dont show when a promotional rate of interest is due to finish.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence, while I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms C, I agree with the investigators 
findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. And if I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions for Ms Cs account with Post Office. Ive also 
seen all of her statements from June 2018 to January 2020. With regards to payments, the 
terms say When you make a payment, we will apply the money we receive from you to your 
Account as follows:
Payments we receive will be applied  to the different amounts of your outstanding balance in 
the order of the highest interest rate to the lowest interest rate  in the order of Cash, Purchases (including Purchases made during the introductory period), Fees and Charges, 
and Promotional Balances  if you have more than one Promotional Balance at the same 
interest rate, your payment will be applied against the balance that ends first.
The statements show Ms C did a balance transfer of £3,600 in July 2018 onto a 0% 
promotional rate. At the time she also had a balance outstanding on another promotional 
rate, which was cleared in August 2018. This just left the £3,600 outstanding. Ms C made 
payments of £90 on 15 October and £88 on 14 November, which were applied against the 
outstanding promotional balance.
The November statement also shows Ms C made four purchases using her card, totalling 
£1,329.03, during October. The statement also shows that Mc C paid £1,327.00 to her card 
on 16 November. Because these purchases hadnt been applied to Ms Cs account when the 
£1,327.00 was paid, the payment was allocated in line with the terms of the account. This 
meant it was paid off the outstanding promotional balance. 
I appreciate that Ms C is unhappy that Post Office did this, but I cant agree they did anything 
wrong. They can only apply the payment against the balance outstanding at the time, and I 
dont think its reasonable for them to hold onto the payment to apply it against future 
transactions that come higher in the order of payment, even if those transactions have 
already been approved but not yet applied to the account.
This was a matter of unfortunate timing and had Ms C waited a week before making the 
payment, it wouldve been applied as she wished. But this isnt a reason for me to say Post 
Office got it wrong and need to do something to put it right.
The December statement shows Ms C was charged interest on the purchases only  not on 
the outstanding promotional balance. Subsequent statements also show Post Office charged 
interest on the purchases only, and the interest charged is reducing each month until July 
2019. This shows me that Post Office continued to apply payments in line with their terms 
i.e. purchases first.
In August 2019 Post Office started charging interest on the remaining balance that Ms C had 
transferred in July 2018. This would be because the transferred balance hadnt been repaid 
in full before the 0% interest period had finished. And this wouldve been the case even if the 
£1,327 payment in November 2018 had been applied against the purchases. The total 
payments Ms C had made from October 2018 to July 2019 were £4,529.00, but the balance 
transfer in July 2018 and the purchases applied in November 2018 totalled £4,929.03  Ms 
C didnt pay enough to clear both balances.
So I cant agree with Ms C that Post Office charged her interest on the £3,600 balance 
transfer she did in July 2018 during the 0% promotional rate period; or that they unfairly 
charged her interest on the remaining part of this balance after July 2019. So I wont be 
asking Post Office to make any interest adjustments to Ms Cs account.
Ms C is also unhappy how the promotional rates of interest are shown on her credit card. It 
isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell financial business how to structure 
their statements. This is a decision Post Office can make in line with its regulator  The 
Financial Conduct Authority. For this reason I wont comment further on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman