DRN-3117530
The complaint
 Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly applied an ERC when he sold his home 
and the way it dealt with a subsequent application to transfer  or port  his mortgage to a
new property. Mr F considers the original product was mis-sold as HSBC knew he was
planning to sell his home. 
What happened
 In 2019, Mr F took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage with HSBC on the advice of a third- 
party broker. The mortgage product had an early repayment charge (ERC) applied until 30 
April 2024. The loan-to-value was 73% - and the offer stated the maximum loan-to-value 
was 80%.
In December 2019, Mr F was selling his home. His solicitor received a redemption 
statement from HSBC showing an ERC of around £30,000 would apply if the mortgage 
was repaid. Mr F complained to HSBC that he intended to port the mortgage and his 
understanding was that he wouldnt have to pay the ERC in those circumstances. HSBC 
told him that it would apply the ERC when the mortgage was repaid but then refund it if 
the mortgage was ported.
In January 2020, Mr F applied to port his mortgage to a new property. HSBC initially 
declined the application. But it then said it hadnt applied its policy correctly and approved 
the application, but for a lower amount than Mr F needed - £515,625 at 73% loan-to-
value. But Mr F wasnt able to proceed. So he repaid the mortgage and incurred the full 
ERC.
Mr F found another property and HSBC agreed the application for £510,000, 79% loan-to- 
value., which again was less than Mr F wanted. As the amount that HSBC was prepared 
to port was less than the existing mortgage, part of the ERC was still payable. HSBC 
eventually refunded around £22,000 of the ERC. Mr F considers that HSBC hasnt treated 
him fairly.
I issued a provisional decision, saying that, subject to any further submissions, I intended 
to uphold the complaint in part. My provisional findings were (and which form part of this 
decision):
ERC
The mortgage was sold by a third-party broker. So HSBC was not responsible for the sale 
of the mortgage or any information Mr F was given about the ERC. I dont consider the 
evidence we have supports that HSBC gave any incorrect information about how the ERC 
would be applied if the mortgage was ported.
The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. I am satisfied that 
HSBC applied it fairly in line with the offer that Mr F accepted.
I consider HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when it applied the ERC. It is in line with 
good industry practice for ERCs to applied in this way and refunded if a porting application 
is successful in future. That reflects that it is impractical for a lender to refund an ERC 
when there is no guarantee that a borrower will actually port their mortgage in future. That 
would mean it would be difficult for it to recoup the ERC it was entitled to.
Mr F said that HSBC should take the ERC refund into account in the deposit calculation. 
But I dont think that helps him here. I say that as if Mr F paid a higher deposit, the loan-to-
value and the amount he was porting would be lower. So the ERC would be higher to 
reflect that.
porting
It appears that HSBC has carried out both an affordability and suitability assessment 
when Mr F wanted to port the mortgage. Under the relevant rules Mr F could port the 
mortgage to a new property as long as there was no material change to affordability. Mr F 
wasnt increasing the amount he wanted to borrow or making any other relevant changes.
In saying that I can see that Mr F asked about switching to interest only. That would be a 
material change that would entitle HSBC to carry out further checks. Although it isnt clear 
that is the reason why HSBC made those checks here. The evidence I have shows that, 
initially at least, it didnt understand its obligations and unfairly declined the porting 
application.
When HSBC did approve the application it limited the loan-to-value at 73%. The mortgage 
offer stated a maximum loan-to-value of 80%. I consider it would be fair for HSBC to apply 
the same limit when Mr F was porting. It had never led Mr F to believe a higher loan-to-
value was acceptable. And I dont think it would be fair for me to say that HSBC should 
agree a materially higher loan-to-value when its likely the interest rate it offered was 
based on that. But it wasnt fair or in line with the lower loan-to-value limit than
applied to the product Mr F had.
 I note the loan-to-value of the property Mr F bought was 79% - slightly below the 
maximum. I also note that Mr F would never have been able to port the full mortgage as the 
balance was higher than the purchase price of the new properties. So he would always 
have had to pay some ERC.
The starting point for me is to put Mr F back in the position he would have been in had 
HSBC acted correctly in the first place.
If HSBC had applied a loan-to-value of 80% to the first porting application, that would have 
meant that Mr F could borrow £564,000. That may have been sufficient for Mr F to go 
ahead. But as I understand it, contracts hadnt been exchanged by that point. So it is 
difficult for me to say that it was solely HSBCs decision that led to that that purchase falling 
through. I am prepared to consider any further evidence on that point  but unless it is clear 
that the sole reason the purchase didnt go ahead was HSBCs decision, I am unlikely to 
award any losses that resulted from that, such as the potential difference in ERC or any 
rental costs Mr F incurred. I would ask that Mr F provides any supporting evidence in 
response.
It is clear though that Mr F has been put through a great deal of stress and inconvenience 
by what happened. If HSBC had acted correctly this should have been a straightforward 
transaction. Mr F could port all of his existing borrowing to a new property providing the 
loan- to-value was 80% or below. The initial application should not have been declined and 
the restriction on the loan-to-value (on both the first and second property) was unfair.HSBC clearly added to what was already a stressful experience for Mr F. Looking at what 
happened I think it would be fair for it to pay £750 in total for any distress and 
inconvenience it caused to Mr F. HSBC and Mr F should confirm if it has made any 
payment already.
In regard to the financial losses. As things stand, I intend to say that HSBC should refund 
Mr F the difference between the refund he received to the ERC and the amount he would 
have received had he borrowed 80% loan-to-value on the property he bought, with interest 
at 8% simple from the date the refund was received until date of settlement. HSBC should 
confirm the amount in response. I may adjust this depending on the evidence I receive 
from Mr F.
HSBC said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr F replied to explain the impact this 
matter had had on his life and mental health. But the provisional findings were a fair 
reflection of what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again I see no reason to reach a different conclusion than I did 
in my provisional decision:
HSBC was entitled to apply the ERC when the property was sold  and refund it once 
the porting had completed.
In the circumstances it was wrong for it to decline the first application and then cap it at 
73% loan-to-value  and then cap second application at 79% loan-to-value. Mr Fs 
mortgage product had a maximum loan-to-value of 80%.
HSBCs actions have added unnecessarily to what was an already very stressful 
experience for Mr F.  
Putting things right
When I uphold a complaint I try and put the affected party back in the position they would 
have been if they had been treated fairly in the first place.
Mr F hasnt shown that he experienced any financial loss because the first application didnt 
go ahead and I havent seen any evidence that was solely as a result of HSBCs decision.
HSBC should not have limited the second, successful application to 79% loan-to-value. So it 
should refund the difference between the ERC Mr F paid and what he would have paid had 
he ported a balance equivalent to 80% loan-to-value of the new property. HSBC should also 
pay interest on that amount. HSBC has not told me what those figures would be. It should 
therefore provide a clear breakdown to Mr F.
I note what Mr F has told me about the impact on this matter to his life and his mental health. 
I still think that £750 is a fair amount to reflect what happened  and takes into account the 
significant impact on Mr F on HSBCs actions. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Refund the difference between the ERC Mr F paid and the amount he would have paid
had he borrowed 80% loan-to-value on the property he bought.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from date of refund to date of 
settlement.
Provide a breakdown of how it calculated the above amount.
Pay Mr F £750 in total for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman