DRN-2369383
The complaint
Mr W says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr W told us he was already struggling to pay essential bills and repay debt on his 
credit cards and payday loans. He says the lending was unaffordable for him and had a 
significant impact on his wellbeing. 
What happened
This complaint is about nine short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr W between 
March 2018 and September 2019. There are two chains of lending. Mr Ws borrowing history 
is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 31/03/2018 02/04/2018 6 £400.00 £169.60
2 05/04/2018 15/04/2018 6 £900.00 £381.60
3 17/04/2018 03/06/2018 6 £880.00 £380.16
Break in lending
4 20/07/2019 24/07/2019 6 £1,000.00 £359.92
5 09/08/2019 11/08/2019 6 £1,130.00 £358.00
6 25/08/2019 25/08/2019 6 £1,100.00 £382.87
7 29/08/2019 30/08/2019 6 £1,130.00 £383.60
8 09/09/2019 Outstanding 6 £1,130.00 £356.89
9 15/09/2019 Outstanding 6 £120.00 £393.24
When Mr W made his complaint to Lending Stream it offered to uphold loan nine. But as 
there was a balance outstanding on his account nothing was due to be repaid to him. 
The second of our adjudicators partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. Because of the pattern of 
borrowing that was developing at loans three, seven and eight (loan nine having already 
been upheld by Lending Stream) he thought that Lending Stream should have carried out 
more checks about Mr Ws financial circumstances. If it had done so it would have more 
likely than not seen that Mr W had multiple short-term loans with other providers and 
realised it was unlikely Mr W would be able to sustainably repay these loans. 
Lending Stream didnt reply to the adjudicator and as the complaint remains unresolved, it 
has been passed to me for decision in my role as ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr 
W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr W didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one, two and four to six 
shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending or about loan nine that has 
already been upheld by Lending Stream. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr W had with Lending Stream. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. And after doing so, Ive decided to 
uphold it in part. 
I should first say that I agree that there are two chains in lending. There was a break of 12 
months between loan three being repaid and loan four being taken. Because of this I dont 
think its unreasonable for Lending Stream to have assumed that Mr W had overcome 
whatever the financial circumstances were that caused him to take high-cost credit in the 
first instance. A break in a chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when taking into 
account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer.  
Lending Stream has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to any of the lending. 
This included asking Mr W about his income and expenditure and it increased Mr Ws 
expenses in its calculations if necessary. It also checked this information with an 
independent credit reference agency and again adjusted Mr W's expenses upwards if 
necessary. 
Its recorded that Mr W earned between £1,750 and £2,500 over the period of the lending 
relationship and his expenses were between £528 and £728. The highest monthly 
repayment was £393.24 so on a pounds and pence basis it would appear affordable as      
Mr W would be left with sufficient disposable income each month.
But I think a pattern of borrowing behaviour was beginning to develop at loans three and 
loans seven and eight. 
For loan three this was the third loan in less than a month taken by Mr W and he was 
returning for additional borrowing within days of a previous loan being repaid. And the 
amount borrowed at loan three  £880  was more than double the amount borrowed at loan 
one  £400. So, I think this suggested that Mr W may have been struggling to manage his 
money and was getting into financial difficultly.
And for the second chain of lending again I think there was a pattern developing when Mr W 
applied for loan seven. He was re-borrowing within days or weeks of repaying the earlier 
loans and loan eight was still outstanding when Mr W applied for loan nine which increased 
his overall debt with Lending Stream as well as his monthly repayment. 
So, for loans three, seven and eight, I think Lending Stream should have looked to build a 
bigger picture of Mr Ws financial circumstances. It could have done this by asking for copies 
of his bank statements or bill as examples. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ws bank statements and if Lending Stream had sought more 
information about Mr Ws financial circumstances it would have seen that Mr W had multiple 
loans outstanding with other short-term credit providers. I think it would have concluded that 
it was unlikely that Mr W could sustainably repay the loans. And which I note proved to be 
the case as loans eight and nine are still outstanding. So, I dont think Lending Stream 
should have agreed to Mr Ws applications for loans three, seven and eight. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans three, seven, eight and nine (which has already 
been upheld by Lending Stream) and Lending Stream should put thinks right. 
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W for loans three, seven, eight and 
nine, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ws loans (eight and nine) has been transferred to a 
third-party Lending Stream should buy the loans back if it can. If Lending Stream cant buy 
the loans back, then it needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is 
achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then Lending Stream should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. 
Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move 
to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr W. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to loans 
three and loans seven to nine. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
If after doing the above Mr W still has an outstanding balance due, then Lending Stream 
should try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr W in 
order to repay what is owed. But Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Mr W 
fairly. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman