DRN-1772003
The complaint
Ms Bs unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds actions when settling a claim 
under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Ms B was involved in an accident  and her car was passed over to one 
of Admirals approved repairers. She wanted to get her car fixed, so asked Admiral for the 
estimate of how much the repair would cost  and she was told around £6,900. Because of 
the repair costs Admiral decided Ms Bs car was a write off  meaning theyd offer her the 
market value for the vehicle.
Ms B wanted to keep the car and have it repaired. So, Admiral calculated that the market 
value was around £8,300, less her excess, and the salvage costs of around £2,300 for Ms B 
keeping the car meant around £5,100 was a fair settlement. Ms B accepted this figure and 
asked a different garage to get her car repaired as theyd quoted around £4,000 to do so 
initially.
This garage explained the bumper, camera and control module were all missing when they 
came to do the repairs. And because of that, the cost of the repairs was actually over 
£6,500. And, because these parts were missing, they couldnt make the car roadworthy.
Because of these issues, Ms B complained. Admiral said their approved repairer will strip the 
car down following an accident  removing the damaged parts so they can estimate the cost 
of repairs. Admiral said their repairer would dispose of any parts which are beyond repair  
and thats what happened to these missing parts. But Admiral did accept they should have 
read out a disclaimer to her, explaining they werent responsible for the condition of the car if 
she kept it. Because of this, they offered her £50. Admiral also offered to pay for half the cost 
of the bumper at £273, as they accepted this could have still had some value.
After receiving Admirals explanation, Ms B contacted them and asked for details of the 
repair estimates. She was surprised to find the repair estimate was no longer around £6,900 
that shed been quoted before but was now over £9,300. Admiral said the camera was not 
included on the original estimate, said sorry, and awarded Ms B £50 for the mistake.
Unhappy with all these issues, Ms B asked us to look into things. One of our investigators 
did so, and ultimately upheld the case. He said Admiral had given the wrong estimate to fix 
the car, didnt read their disclaimer, didnt give her the total car back as some parts were 
missing, and it wasnt clear if the night vision camera was damaged. He recommended 
Admiral pay Ms B half the cost of the night vision camera, and an additional £150 
compensation.
Ms B accepted this outcome, but Admiral didnt. They said they wanted it passed to an 
ombudsman without explaining why  so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
After review I asked our investigator to get in touch, and explain I planned to also award 8% 
on the camera payment, if I upheld the complaint. The case handler from Admiral who 
replied said they werent familiar with the complaint but said the camera had always been 
estimated to be replaced  as it was mentioned on a report. So, they couldnt agree their 
approved repairers havent been clear on whether the camera was damaged or not as they 
estimated the cost of replacing it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues Ms B is complaining about all stem from a claim she made in September 2019. 
After this claim Admiral offered to settle it and pay her the market value of the vehicle  so 
this is the starting point for this case.
Ive considered the market value offered and havent seen anything to suggest itd create an 
unfair outcome for either party, so Ive gone on to consider the specific issues raised.
Ms B has said had she known the true cost of repairs then she never would have taken the 
car back and tried to get it repaired.
The difference in repair estimates from Admiral is significant  from £6,900 to £9,300. The 
settlement offered was around £5,100, and the quote for the repairs by her own garage  
once everything had actually been factored in, was £6,500. Ms B understood the cost of the 
repairs, at the time she agreed to the settlement, was £4,000 which Ive seen proof of.
So, given that, I do agree with Ms Bs point here as she wasnt made aware itd cost her a 
significant amount of extra money  and had they told her the correct repair estimate of 
£9,300, its unlikely shed have accepted a settlement of £5,100.
Admiral have argued the camera  which given its cost is the reason for the discrepancy  
would have needed to be replaced anyway given it was a delicate piece of equipment. I 
accept thats a possibility. But neither Admirals staff or their approved repairer can actually 
confirm what happened to the camera. It could still have had some value but without being 
able to inspect it or know whats happened to it its now impossible to say. And Admiral have 
accepted the bumper may have had further value even though it was damaged  and agreed 
to pay 50% of the potential salvage cost of this. So, if theyre accepting that a damaged 
bumper may still have had some value, it seems plausible to me that the camera may still 
have had some value.
Unfortunately, by this item being removed, and no one knowing what happened to it I cant 
say for certain. But, given Admirals acceptance of paying 50% of the bumper, together with 
the repair costs that exceeded Ms Bs original understanding I do think its fair Admiral pay 
50% of the cost of the camera as it could still have had some value.
Our investigator also recommended an additional £150 compensation and I think this is 
appropriate. Admiral accept they didnt give her the right figures for the estimate and have 
awarded her £50 for this. But I dont think this really recognises the shock Ms B would have 
had when she was told about the additional costs, together with the extra time its then taken 
for the issue to be resolved. Because of that, I do agree an additional £150 compensation is 
fair.
Admirals case handler has recently raised an issue that the camera was always estimated 
to be replaced. But Admiral gave two different estimates, and the one Admirals case handler 
has drawn my attention to is the second one which includes it. For the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im still satisfied its appropriate for Admiral to pay out the costs Ive listed 
below.Putting things right
Admiral need to:
Pay Ms B 50% of the cost of the replacement camera
Pay Ms B 8% interest on this, from the date of the payment, to the date of 
settlement*
Send Ms B an additional £150 compensation  this is in addition to any 
compensation already paid for this complaint.
*HM Revenue and Customers requires Admiral to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Admiral must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if she asks them for one.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out 
the actions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman