DRN-4154773
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited disposed of his car without his consent 
following a claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants compensation 
for the costs he then incurred and the damage to his professional reputation. Mr W is a 
policy holder on a policy where his wife is the principal policy holder. 
What happened
Mr W made a claim to Aviva following an incident. Aviva took his car for repairs, but it was 
deemed to be beyond economical repair. Mr W told Aviva that he wanted to retain the car, 
but the car was mistakenly sold. Aviva then provided Mr W with short-term hire. It apologised 
and offered him £600 compensation. 
Mr W said the car had contained £700 of personal possessions. And Aviva offered to 
reimburse him £150 for these, which was the policy limit, and to consider evidence for any 
other items. But it didnt think it was responsible for Mr W being without a car as his own car, 
if it had been returned to him, would have been unroadworthy in any case. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He said hed lost work worth £5,000 and incurred £1,500 costs. He 
was also unhappy with Avivas valuation of his car. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Whilst Mr W thought 
his car was repairable, she thought Aviva was entitled to decide its was beyond economical 
repair based on the likely repair costs. She thought Avivas settlement offer for the cars pre-
loss market value was fair and reasonable. 
Aviva caused three days delay in providing a suitable hire car. But she thought it wasnt 
responsible for Mr Ws loss of earnings as his own car, if it had been retained, was 
unroadworthy and Mr W wouldnt have been able to work sooner. She thought Aviva wasnt 
responsible for Mr Ws later hire costs as he had received his settlement and it wasnt 
Avivas responsibility that he was too busy to source a new car. 
She thought Aviva had reasonably responded to the loss of Mr Ws personal possessions. 
And she thought Avivas payment of compensation was fair and reasonable as it was in 
keeping with our published guidance. 
Mr W replied that Aviva hadnt explained how the mistake occurred. He said Aviva had 
initially assessed his car as repairable. He said the car was roadworthy. He said Aviva hadnt 
paid enough for him to replace the car. He said Avivas delay in providing a hire car had lost 
him three days work. Mr W asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so 
its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated that his car was sold when he had made it clear 
to Aviva that he wanted to retain and repair it. And I can understand that he had a shock 
when he found out about this when he had a request for the cars V5 registration document. I 
can also see thats its now more than a year since the incident. I can understand that this 
has been a stressful time for Mr W. 
Mr W has helpfully provided detailed timelines of what happened after the incident and the 
subsequent claim. And Ive considered these, and his subsequent submissions, alongside 
Avivas file. Mr W has made the strength of his feelings clear, but unfortunately mistakes 
happen. And I think Aviva has reasonably tried to explain what went wrong and has 
apologised for this.
Aviva accepted that an error was made when it sold Mr Ws car without his consent. When a 
business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the 
consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error 
had on the consumer. 
To restore his position, Mr W wanted his car returned. But, as Aviva explained, that wasnt 
possible. And so it paid him the cars pre-loss market value. It said this was £3,850 after a 
reduction for pre-existing damage. But Mr W said this wasnt enough to replace the car with 
one of the same specification.
I can understand that Mr W would want a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that 
his policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. Our Investigator 
thought Avivas settlement was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she came to this 
conclusion. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that the Investigator looked in the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mr Ws car at the date of its loss. 
The average of the three closest valuations she found less the deduction for pre-existing 
damage was £4,021.50. This was within the range of Avivas valuation. And so I agree that 
Avivas settlement was fair and reasonable. And I dont require it to increase this.
Avivas engineer had deemed the car to be unroadworthy. And so it said that if it hadnt been 
sold in error then Mr W wouldnt have been able to drive it and so it wasnt responsible for 
his consequent losses. Mr W has detailed these as a loss of three days work as he was 
without a suitable car, the difficulty of using public transport, and the trouble of replacing the 
car when he was busy professionally. 
Ive looked at Avivas file and I can see that it decided that the car was unroadworthy based 
on its engineers statement in his assessment of the car. Further detail wasnt given. Im not 
an engineer. So I dont assess damage to a vehicle as this is a matter for the experts in 
these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. My role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision. 
Mr W said hed driven the car after the incident, and it was driven onto Avivas recovery 
truck. But being driveable is different to being roadworthy. Ive seen that the car is stated to 
be unroadworthy on Avivas engineers report. I havent seen any expert engineering 
evidence to contradict this. So I have no evidence to show that it was wrong for Aviva to rely 
on its engineers expert opinion. 
Mr W was also unhappy that Aviva had initially assessed his car as repairable. I dont think 
its unusual for insurers to rely on online tools to assess the likelihood of repairs being 
economic based on the consumers description. But I also dont think its unusual for the outcome to change once the car has been assessed by an engineer. So I dont think Aviva 
did anything wrong in this.
I can see that when Mr W complained about the loss of his car and explained his situation, 
Aviva provided a suitable replacement car for a week and then extended the hire for a 
further day. Mr W wasnt entitled to this under his policys terms and conditions as he had 
already received his settlement. And so I think it was reasonable for Aviva to provide short-
term hire in the circumstances. 
I can understand that this was a busy time in Mr Ws work life, but I cant hold Aviva 
responsible for that or for him not replacing his car after he had received the payment. This 
is because Aviva had met its liability under his policy. And we expect a consumer to take 
reasonable actions to mitigate their losses. 
Mr W didnt have the opportunity to remove his personal possessions from the car before it 
was sold. Aviva offered him the policy limit of £150 for these and it said it would consider 
evidence of further items. 
I think thats a reasonable approach, but, as our Investigator has explained, I cant comment 
further on this because this was raised after Avivas response to Mr Ws complaint. If Mr W is 
unhappy with Avivas offer he should complain to it and, if he remains unhappy, then he can 
bring his complaint to us.   
So I think the settlement, the short-term hire and Avivas offer to consider Mr Ws loss of 
personal possessions reasonably restored Mr Ws position in keeping with his policys terms 
and conditions. 
Mr W has described the impact the loss of the car had on his work, the amount of time he 
had to spend on calls to Aviva to try and resolve matters, and the stress and frustration this 
has caused. 
Aviva offered him £600 compensation for this. Im satisfied that this is in keeping with our 
published guidance where there has been distress, inconvenience, and a loss of reputation 
over several weeks. So I think its fair and reasonable compensation and I dont require 
Aviva to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman