DRN-1593355
The complaint
Mr S complained about the settlement figure offered by U K Insurance Ltd (UKI), trading as 
Direct Line, after his car was written off. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was assessed as a write-off (total loss) by UKI following an accident in May 2019. 
UKI said the pre-accident market value of Mr Ss car was £3,330 and offered him this 
amount, less the excess, to settle his claim.  
Mr S disagreed with the valuation. He said he spent a lot of money getting his car into 
pristine condition and he doesnt feel this is properly reflected in the valuation amount. Mr S 
felt his car was worth around £6,000.  
UKI said it uses widely recognised motor valuation guides when calculating the pre-claim 
value of a car. It said these provide a starting base value, which is then adjusted for mileage 
and condition. And it also makes allowances for non-standard options. UKI provided Mr S 
with a table showing how the valuation was calculated, which included a deduction of £85 
made because of the fair condition of the car. UKI said the value was a fair and accurate 
reflection of the market value at the time of the incident. 
Mr S was unhappy with the response from UKI and referred this matter to our service. 
Our investigator checked Mr Ss policy terms. These said UKI can pay the cost of repairing 
or replacing a vehicle up to its UK market value, which is the value of the vehicle at the time 
of the claim. And can be different to the amount paid for the vehicle by the consumer. 
Our investigator used three recognised guides to check UKIs valuation. He explained that 
these guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. So this 
service finds the guides more persuasive than other methods of valuing vehicles. He 
 worked out an average of the valuations provided by the guides, which is £3,705. This was 
higher than UKIs valuation, so he asked it to pay an additional £375.   
Mr S doesnt agree with our investigators findings. He said the guides shouldnt be used in 
isolation to value his car. He said the mileage is high, but he has spent a considerable 
amount of money and replaced many components of the car. He said he has looked at an 
on-line car valuation website and on this his car is valued at over £6,000. Mr S said he didnt 
ask for the vehicle to be declared a total loss. He said if a valuation cant be agreed on, he 
would like UKI to repair his car and remove the category N salvage marker thats been 
placed on it. 
UKI also didnt agree with our investigators findings. It said it calculated the value using the 
highest of the guides and considered its valuation reasonable. So this complaint has come 
to me for a final decision. 
I first of all contacted UKI about the £85 deduction made because of the condition of the car 
to find out why it had made it. It explained it was because the car didnt have an MOT at the 
time of the accident.  I then contacted both UKI and Mr S to let them know I intended to come to a different 
conclusion to that of our investigator and that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
gave both parties the opportunity to comment. 
Mr S responded and said he retained the car after it was written off and it was subsequently 
written off again following another incident. He said the amount paid by his insurers in 
relation to the second incident is more than UKI have offered as a settlement amount. He 
said that if UKI arent willing to pay what he wants for the car, then he would like it to pay 
what it cost him to have it repaired. Mr S said this amounts to around £4,500.
UKI also responded. It said it wont pay for the cost of the repairs, as the policy wording is 
clear that it wont pay more than the pre accident market value less the excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it.  
Ive looked at whether the pre accident value UKI used to settle Mr Ss claim is reasonable. 
Mr Ss policy says that UKI only has to pay the market value of Mr Ss car at the time it was 
damaged, less any excess that applies. The market value is defined as the cost of replacing 
your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the 
time of the accident or loss.
Mr S doesnt think UKIs market value is right, as hed kept his car in pristine condition. So 
he feels it would cost substantially more than UKI has suggested to replace it.
UKI used two guides to calculate the value. Ive used three, including the two used by UKI. 
And the market value UKI calculated falls within the range of market values in the guides Ive 
checked. The guide figures give the likely retail replacement cost. And they assume there 
are no issues with the car, including that it has been fully serviced and has a MOT. Mr Ss 
car didnt have a valid MOT and this also needs to be taken in consideration, as it would cost 
less to buy a replacement without a valid MOT. So, based on the guides, and allowing for 
the small deduction due to the lack of an MOT Im satisfied the market value UKI has used is 
reasonable. 
Mr S has said he didnt want the claim dealt with on the basis his car was a total loss (write-
off). Hes said if a settlement cant be agreed, then hed like UKI to pay him what it cost him 
to have the car repaired. Mr S said this was more than the market value. But I dont think 
UKI has to do this, as the policy says the most it will pay is the market value (as defined), 
less the policy excess. 
In summary, Im satisfied that what UKI has paid to settle Mr Ss claim is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Martina RyanOmbudsman