DRN-1588905
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that a payment he sent to a friend via PayPal wasn't received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
PayPal says it has a call recording that shows it referred Mr A back to his friend to 
trace the payment on 31 May 2019, but it isnt willing to share the call. When asked 
for his comments on the call, Mr A has confirmed that when he spoke with PayPal, 
he wasnt told to ask his friend to make contact to trace the missing payment. As I 
dont have a copy of the call recording and both parties have given different versions 
of what was discussed Ive based my decision on the balance of probability. That is, 
what I consider most likely to have happened. I think its most likely Mr A would have 
asked his friend to trace the funds if hed been asked to. 
Ive also considered the general level of contact and service and can see there were 
delays after Mr A asked questions and for information about the missing payment. I 
can't see that Mr A was ever given a firm answer by PayPal concerning what 
happened to his payment. 
Our investigator recommended PayPal pay Mr A £30 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I can see Mr A has experienced some trouble and upset 
when trying to get answers from PayPal and I agree that £30 fairly reflects the impact 
of these issues on him. As I agree that £30 is a fair way to resolve this complaint, I'm 
going to endorse the investigator's recommendation. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to pay 
Mr A £30.
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.Marco Manente
Ombudsman