DRN-4311858
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge Finance).
When I refer to what Mrs N and what Northridge Finance said or did, it should also be taken 
to include things said or done on their behalf.
What happened
In June 2021, Mrs N entered into a hire purchase agreement with Northridge Finance to 
acquire a brand-new car. The cash price of the car was around £24,000. Mrs Ns monthly 
repayments on the agreement were around £312 over a 48-month period. There was also an 
optional final payment of around £8,988. 
In November 2022 Mrs N contacted Northridge Finance to say that from the start of the year 
the car has been with the supplying dealership three times and, at the time she contacted 
Northridge Finance, she said that the car has been there for approximately six weeks due to 
a major breakdown. The car required a new body control module and keys. From the job 
sheet it seems that the fault was originally reported on 29 September 2022 and the first 
module that was supplied was incorrect. The car repairs were finally completed on 15 June 
2023 as per the job sheet. The cars mileage at the time was 7,498 miles. 
Mrs N is unhappy because, as she said, during the nearly nine months when she was 
waiting for the car to be repaired, she had to change the courtesy car that she was provided 
with by the dealership three times. She said that this involved driving back and forth to the 
dealership, which was difficult to fit in between her job hours. This caused her distress and 
inconvenience because she said that she had to constantly move and refit the childrens car 
seats and her travel equipment. In addition, she said, the hire company kept contacting her 
about the hire car payments not being made, which should have been taken care of by the 
supplying dealership. She also said that the situation had a detrimental impact on her mental 
and physical wellbeing, and shes unhappy that Northridge Finance provided no help 
whatsoever. So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was satisfied that the car Northridge Finance supplied to Mrs N wasnt of 
satisfactory quality because it was supplied to her brand new, and, when the fault occurred, 
it had only travelled approximately 7,500 miles. So, he didnt think a reasonable person 
would expect a brand-new car to have developed these sorts of faults after covering such a 
short number of miles. As the faults have been repaired at no cost to Mrs N, he felt that 
Northridge Finance was not required to take any further action regarding the car, but he felt 
that they should pay Mrs N £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. And he felt that 
they should also refund Mrs N 15% of her monthly rentals from October 2022 to June 2023 
to reflect that she wasnt always kept mobile in a like for like replacement cars.
Northridge Finance didnt agree with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Northridge Finance told our service that they werent involved in providing Mrs N with the 
courtesy cars, so they feel that they shouldnt be responsible for the arrangements Mrs N 
made with the dealership. They said that they have no remit to instruct the dealership to 
provide a certain specification of courtesy car. They also said that they were unable to speed 
up, nor influence, the time it takes a manufacturer, or a car dealership, to acquire a part for a 
car. So, they said that, whilst they sympathise with the delays Mrs N encountered, there was 
a global shortage of car parts which was having a wide impact across the automotive 
industry. They think that reasonable time frames were therefore likely to be months rather 
than weeks. They said that this also impacted the availability of courtesy cars due to a higher 
demand. 
Northridge Finance have also questioned whether there were durability issues with the car, 
and they feel that, as the issues first manifested over a year after the car was supplied, it 
was for Mrs N to prove that the car wasnt durable. They dont accept that the car was faulty 
at the point of supply, given the fact that the car covered around 7,500 miles with no issues. 
So, Ive considered all the above arguments. 
Mrs N acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Northridge Finance is 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with 
complaints about their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements 
such as the one Mrs N entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the 
goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered to 
be of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid, and 
other relevant circumstances. I think in this case, those relevant circumstances include, but 
are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability.
In Mrs Ns case the car was brand-new, with a cash price of around £24,000. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be of a higher quality than a cheaper and/or previously 
used car. I think it would also be reasonable to expect the car to last a considerable period of 
time before significant problems occur, and it would be reasonable to expect it to be free 
from even minor defects shortly after it was acquired.The CRA sets out that Mrs N has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, she would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that she expressed her wish to reject the car 
within that time and I dont think the faults in question were present at that time. The CRA 
says that, if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, then Mrs N 
would still be entitled to return it after 30 days, but she wouldnt have the right to reject the 
car until she has exercised her right to repair  this is called her final right to reject. So, Mrs 
N doesnt have an automatic right to return the car if theres a fault. For me to conclude that 
Mrs N can now exercise her right to reject the car, or ask for a replacement, I would need to 
see that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and that Northridge Finances one attempt at 
the repair has failed. 
Considering the age and mileage of the car and the faults Mrs N experienced with the body 
control module and keys, I think a reasonable person wouldnt consider it reasonable for the 
car to have faults of such significance so soon after acquisition. At the time the car 
developed the fault and was taken to the dealership it had only travelled around 7,498 miles 
and this was only about 15 months after supply. 
I know that Northridge Finance think that Mrs N needed to prove that the car wasnt durable 
because when it was brought to the dealership with the fault this was approximately 15 
months after it was supplied. And I agree with them that the burden of proof was on Mrs N to 
show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, but I think considering the circumstances of 
this specific case I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask her to provide further 
evidence to satisfy this burden in order to show that the car wasnt durable. I say this 
because the car was bought brand new, it had only travelled about 7,500 miles and 
considering the price paid, I dont think a reasonable person would expect a brand-new car 
with such low mileage to experience the major fault that Mrs N experienced when she did.
 
So overall, I dont think the car was sufficiently durable. For this reason, I dont think the car 
was of satisfactory quality. But considering that the repair done appears to have been 
successful, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs N to be able to now exercise 
her right to reject the car or to ask for a replacement.
During the approximate nine months when Mrs N was waiting for the car to be repaired, she 
had to change the courtesy car that was provided by the dealership three times. She 
described in detail how this has impacted her, and Ive already mentioned this above, so I 
will not repeat it again. But Ive considered what she has told our service and I dont think 
she wouldve experienced any of those things had Northridge Finance supplied her with a 
car that was of a satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So, I think Northridge Finance 
should pay £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
I understand that Northridge Finance feel they werent involved in providing Mrs N with the 
courtesy cars, so they feel that they shouldnt be responsible for the arrangements Mrs N 
made with the dealership. And that they were unable to speed up, nor influence, the time it 
takes a manufacturer or a car dealership to acquire a part for the car especially during a time 
of global shortage of car parts. But I dont think Mrs N wouldve experienced any of those 
things had Northridge Finance supplied her with a car that was of a satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Also, Mrs N made Northridge Finance aware of the issues she was 
experiencing in November 2022 and, as they are the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, they are responsible for dealing with complaints about their quality. The CRA 
stipulates that the repairs have to be completed in a reasonable time and, considering all the 
circumstances, I dont think nine months is a reasonable time.  Furthermore, while the car was waiting to be fixed, Mrs N was disadvantaged as the 
courtesy cars were not always like for like and as such fit for the purpose that she needed 
them for. As these werent always suitable for her needs, I think it is only fair and reasonable 
that Northridge Finance refund her 15% of her monthly rentals from October 2022 to June 
2023. I think this is a fair way to reflect that she wasnt always kept mobile in a like for like 
replacement car. And I dont think she wouldve needed to deal with the issues mentioned 
above had Northridge Finance supplied her with a car that was of satisfactory quality.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I think N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finances 
should:
- Refund Mrs N 15% of her monthly rentals from October 2022 to June 2023, plus add 
8% simple interest per year to these refunds, from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement.
- Pay Mrs N £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance considers tax should be deducted 
from the interest element of my award, they should provide Mrs N with a certificate showing 
how much they have taken off so she can reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman