DRN-4036147
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost, which she says was as 
the result of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
In or around September 2018, Mrs M was looking for a company to assist her in bringing an 
invention into the mainstream. Mrs M has said she saw a company that interested her and 
so she carried out some research on it. Shes said everything seemed positive and so, 
following a consultation with the company, Mrs M signed contracts and set up regular 
payments in return for advice.
Over the course of a number of months Mrs M made the following payments, totalling 
£7,506.82, to the company, using her Lloyds debit card;
26 September 2018 £76.37
15 November 2018 £38.82
7 January 2019 £1,981.72
28 January 2019 £2,298.45
29 January 2019 £76.12
26 February 2019 £38.34
7 March 2019 £2,003.95
11 March 2019 £492.09
11 March 2019 £500.96
Mrs M has said she first became concerned when she didnt receive a prototype of her 
invention that she had expected. But it wasnt until November 2022, that she raised the 
matter with Lloyds, through her representatives.
Lloyds looked into the complaint that Mrs M raised and issued its final response on 8 
December 2022 not upholding the complaint. In summary, this was because it didnt agree 
the bank was in error for allowing the payments to go through. It said that a payment that 
was made, on 4 January 2019, was stopped, which the bank believed was likely to be 
because it wanted to check that it was Mrs M who was authorising the payment. But due to 
the time that has passed, it didnt have any system notes to confirm this.
Lloyds added that where Mrs M had made the payments using her debit card, it can try and 
assist by requesting a refund through Visa. But it said the rules Visa sets for claiming a 
refund include a maximum timeframe in which to raise a claim, so, due to when Mrs M raised 
the matter with it, it was too late to make a claim.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs M then brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he said he was 
unable to conclude whether the company set out to defraud Mrs M, but in any event he didnt 
think the transactions made warranted Lloyds blocking them and speaking to Mrs M before 
allowing them to be processed. As well as this, our Investigator also didnt think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably in not raising a chargeback claim, as it was out of time to do so.
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, through her representatives, 
she said the payments she made were out of character, which is why Lloyds blocked one of 
the payments. She thought Lloyds missed an opportunity to intervene and prevent further 
financial harm. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im mindful that there is a dispute between the parties in this case as to whether this is a 
scam. I can see that Mrs Ms representatives have referenced articles, as well as confirming 
there are other victims, which they feel demonstrates what they believe was a cruel scam 
orchestrated by the company.
Ive thought about this. But, in the circumstances of this case, my findings would not differ, 
even if I considered this was a scam. So Im satisfied that to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome on this case, I dont consider it necessary to make a finding as to whether I think 
this is a scam. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Lloyds actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the payments to leave 
her account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money.
In her submissions to us, Mrs M has referred to The Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). This is a voluntary code that applies to APP 
scams. But the CRM Code doesnt apply to payments made by card, which is the payment 
method used in this case, so I cant apply it.
But that isnt the end of things, Lloyds along with other payment services providers, should 
be monitoring accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of 
fraud. Lloyds has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect 
unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. 
There is a delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each 
day and it would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in 
situations where Lloyds do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to 
the circumstances of the payment.
Ive thought about whether Lloyds ought to have intervened before allowing the payments 
Mrs M made to be progressed. But having thought about this carefully, Im not persuaded Lloyds ought to have intervened in these payments. Banks and other payment services 
providers are obliged to carry out their customers payment instructions. There is no dispute 
here that Mrs M authorised the transactions, so she is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
Having reviewed the payments and thought about things carefully, on balance, I dont think 
there was anything so unusual or uncharacteristic about the payments Mrs M made, that I 
think ought to have alerted Lloyds that Mrs M may have been at risk of financial harm. I say 
that as, in the circumstances of this case, the payments were spread over a number of 
months and included both larger and smaller transactions. And after the first couple of 
payments, which were relatively small in value, Mrs M would then have appeared to be 
making payments to a regular payee. As such, I dont think they would have appeared as 
suspicious in nature to Lloyds. Im also mindful that the payments didnt clear the balance of 
Mrs Ms account, which can sometimes, but of course not always, be an indicator to a bank 
that somebody may be at risk of financial harm.
I can see that Lloyds has said that it did block a payment Mrs M attempted on 4 January 
2019. Unfortunately due to the passage of time, it no longer has detailed notes for the 
reason why the payment was blocked, but it has suggested it was likely to check that Mrs M 
had authorised the payment. Mrs M disagrees, she thinks this was an opportunity missed 
and that the payment was blocked because Lloyds were concerned it was out of character. 
In cases when its not clear what happened or where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, as is the case here, I base my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Lloyds do not have any notes to suggest that it had a conversation with Mrs M about the 
payment it blocked and importantly, in her submissions to the bank and this service, Mrs M 
didnt raise that Lloyds had contacted her to express any concern over any of the payments 
she made.
With this in mind, Im persuaded that its more likely than not the payment was blocked by 
Lloyds for the purposes of checking for authorisation, rather than for any wider concerns it 
had that Mrs M may have been at risk of financial harm. Given, Ive found I dont think the 
payments would have appeared as suspicious to Lloyds, I think the check it most likely 
carried out was for authorisation purposes, which Im satisfied would have been 
proportionate and I wouldnt have expected it to do anymore.
But even if I considered Lloyds should have intervened and discussed the payments with 
Mrs M before allowing them to be progressed, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont, Im 
not persuaded it would have made a difference. I think it more likely than not Mrs M would 
have continued to make the payments. I should be clear that I cant know for certain how 
events wouldve transpired if Lloyds had handled things differently. I must reach a conclusion 
on the balance of probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the available 
evidence. Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that a proportionate 
intervention by Lloyds wouldve prevented Mrs M from making the payments.
I say that because Mrs M has explained that she carried out her research before contacting 
the company and she entered into a contract with them. I can also see, from the evidence 
provided, that she remained in contact with them throughout and for some time after the last 
payment was made. As such, I think its more likely than not Mrs M would have been able to 
speak confidently and plausibly, in response to any questions I could reasonably have 
expected Lloyds to have asked, without concerning it that she might be at risk of financial 
harm or the victim of a scam.Finally, Ive considered whether the chargeback process was an option for Mrs M. A 
chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from a suppliers bank when 
a consumer doesnt get the goods or services they paid for. It isnt a legal right and theres 
no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The process is 
subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Visa  and a strict criteria 
and time limits apply. To be clear, Lloyds doesnt set the rules and I cant change them. 
Visas rules say a chargeback must be initiated within 120 days of the last date that the 
consumer expected to receive the service  and one cant be initiated more than 540 days 
from the date of payment in any event. Where the evidence Ive seen shows that Mrs M 
didnt raise this matter with Lloyds until November 2022, it was more than 540 days from the 
dates of the payments she had made. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it 
chose not to attempt a chargeback in November 2022, as it was too late to do so under the 
scheme rules.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation that Mrs M finds herself in and it is 
unfortunate that she has sent money and clearly not received what she was expecting. But 
for the reasons Ive explained Im not persuaded Lloyds has done anything wrong and so it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to refund Mrs M the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman