DRN-3517076
The complaint
Mr C and Miss G complain that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) unfairly turned down their 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to the purchase of a timeshare 
on 7 August 2008.
Background to this complaint
Mr C and Miss G purchased membership of a holiday club at the time of sale from a third 
party (the supplier). And they financed that purchase by taking a loan with FHF in both of 
their names. 
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr C and Miss G made claims for misrepresentation under 
section 75 of the CCA in late 2017. 
FHF referred the complaint to the supplier in the first instance. It said that as all of 
Mr C and Miss Gs grievances were to do with what happened at the time of sale, it was not 
in a position to assess their claim. In response, Mr C and Miss G reiterated they were 
seeking to hold FHF jointly liable for the actions of the supplier under s.75 of the CCA  so 
FHF issued a final response referring Mr C and Miss G back to the supplier and to our 
service should they remain unhappy. The supplier did provide a response to the claim points 
made by Mr C and Miss G.
Unhappy with FHFs response, Mr C and Miss G referred a complaint to this service in 2018. 
While Mr C and Miss G were waiting for an answer to their complaint from this service, they 
instructed a professional representative to help them with their case. The representative 
raised new complaint points and sought to make a claim under s.140A of the CCA, claiming 
the lending relationship between FHF and Mr C and Miss G was unfair. 
The new claim and complaint points were put to FHF and the supplier, with FHF issuing a 
further final response. It did not uphold the representatives claim under s.140A, and it 
maintained its position in respect of the original s.75 claim. 
The combined complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who, based on the 
information available, concluded that Mr C and Miss Gs claim under s.75 of the CCA was 
out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). He also thought that while the new claim 
under s.140A had been made in time, there was insufficient evidence to suggest that an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship had arisen between the parties. 
Mr C and Miss Gs representative disagreed with our investigators assessment. In summary 
it said: 
Both the s.75 and s.140A claims had been made in time
The view had not considered that the product and finance had been sold by an 
unlicenced company
The monies were transferred within the cooling off period, contrary to relevant 
regulations
The terms and conditions were not provided until after the money had been 
transferred
The level of pressure during the time of sale was sufficient to make Mr C and Miss G 
sign the contract just so they could leave the meeting
The original membership held by Mr C and Miss G was a trial only, they didnt get to 
use this and were upsold a product they were already unhappy with
Mr C and Miss G had no chance but to pay back the loan
Mr C and Miss G have found the whole ordeal exceedingly distressing
Our investigator considered the points made by Mr C and Miss Gs representative but did not 
find that they changed his opinion on the case. He issued a follow up assessment letter 
explaining his reasons for this. 
FHF responded to the investigators assessment with the following points:
The product and finance were sold by a company licenced by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT)
The funds were transferred after the 14-day cooling off period
All documents that were required to be provided were provided
Mr C and Miss Gs representative responded to say:
The supplier breached its contract and misrepresented what Mr C and Miss G were 
buying. Mr C and Miss G joined a membership of a company that did not exist. The 
companies have no ownership of the properties they were selling rights on. It was not 
made clear that the contract was not an investment in real estate. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
And having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise
that this will be disappointing for Mr C and Miss G. But I hope theyll understand why Ive
come to the conclusion I have.Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
I will also note that Mr C and Miss G have made several purchases with the supplier and 
they appear to have complained about each purchase. In its submissions, their 
representative has often referred to purchases and circumstances that do not fall within the 
scope of this complaint. For clarity, this decision relates solely to the purchase in August 
2008, financed by FHF. 
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation 
FHF sought to direct Mr C and Miss G to the supplier instead of investigating their s.75 claim 
in the first instance. While FHF is correct in saying it was not present at the point of sale, it is 
obligated to respond to claims made under s.75 of the CCA. In its ultimate response to this 
claim, FHF forwarded on the comments made by the supplier. Setting out why, it did not 
think Mr C and Miss G had proven a claim for misrepresentation. 
Rather than comment on this response, our investigator noted that Mr C and Miss Gs claim 
for misrepresentation was likely out of time under the LA. So, he didnt think FHFs overall 
decision to decline the claim to be unfair. 
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. The limitation period for actions founded in tort is 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA). 
Mr C and Miss G made a like claim against FHF under s.75 of the CCA and the limitation 
period for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. So, this means 
that they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim. 
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr C and Miss G entered 
into the purchase and credit agreements in 2008. I say this because they say they entered 
into the purchase agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of the supplier. And 
as the loan from FHF was used to help finance the purchase, it was when they entered into 
the credit agreement that they suffered a loss. This means that Mr C and Miss G had six 
years from the time of sale to make a claim. But as they didnt do that until Late 2017, their 
claim is likely to have been late. And for that reason, I am not going to direct FHF to uphold 
their s.75 claim.
Grounds to extend time
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
The Section 140A claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr C, Miss G and 
FHF was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as it is relevant law, when deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is in this complaint given its particular circumstances, I 
still have to consider it along with what I think a court is likely to conclude.
And having done that, I am not persuaded a court is likely to reach the conclusion that the
relationship between Mr C, Miss G and FHF was unfair.
Mr C and Miss Gs representative says payment was taken in the cooling off period in 
breach of the relevant timeshare regulations. It considers this to be one of several reasons 
why a claim under s.140A should be upheld. 
I should first note that Section 140A isnt a right afforded to a debtor simply because of a 
breach of a legal or equitable duty. So, while the representative says that there were several 
breaches of regulations, for example, the effect of those breaches on Mr C and Miss G and 
the decision they made at the time of sale is also important.
I can see in this case that Mr C and Miss G signed the timeshare acquisition agreement (the 
purchase agreement) on 7 August 2008 and did not sign the associated loan agreement until 
September 2008, with funds being transferred in October of that year. So, I do not agree that 
the monies were transferred within the cooling off period afforded to Mr C and Miss G or that 
the timing of the money being transferred to the supplier gave rise to an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship in this case. 
Mr C and Miss Gs representative also says the supplier propositioned the purchase as a 
one time deal, only available to Mr C and Miss G on that day and that it applied so much 
pressure during the alleged nine hour sales meeting, that they signed the contract for the 
sole purpose of being able to leave. Mr C has said Miss G was so upset by the pressured 
sales tactics of the supplier, that she left the meeting in tears. 
I accept that the suppliers sales presentations could be lengthy. And I acknowledge that 
Mr C and Miss G may have felt worn down by a sales process that went on for several 
hours. So, I can understand why they argue that the prolonged nature of the presentation felt 
like a pressured sale  especially if, as they approached the closing stages, they were going 
to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not 
have been available at a later date.
However, against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I 
find it hard to argue that Mr C and Miss G upgraded at the time of sale when they simply 
didnt want to. 
Mr C and Miss G were existing timeshare members by the time they made this purchase  
having attended, it seems, two other presentations by the supplier on the purchase and/or 
upgrade of their membership. So, it seems reasonable to conclude that they would have 
been aware of the typical length of the suppliers presentations and what they would entail. 
In addition, while Mr C and Miss G say they didnt receive written confirmation of their right to 
cancel within 14 days until they returned to the UK, I can see that they signed a one page 
document during the sale which set out their right to cancel the timeshare agreement within 
14 days. And as this was not their first purchase with the supplier, I think its likely they had 
been made aware of their right to cancel previously. 
I also find it difficult to reconcile the notion that Mr C and Miss G only signed the contract in 
order to leave the meeting room, with the absence of any cancellation attempts while they 
remained at the suppliers resort for the rest of their holiday. Mr C and Miss G say they tried 
to cancel once they returned to the UK but no record of this has been supplied and I 
wouldve expected Mr G and Miss C to make attempts to cancel the agreement and/or complain of how they were treated if they felt they were harassed into a purchase they did 
not want to make. 
So, taking everything into account, I am not persuaded Mr C and Miss G made the decision 
to proceed with the upgrade because they felt they had no other choice. Instead, it appears 
they had an interest in purchasing further points from the supplier in order to holiday through 
its portfolio of resorts.
Mr C and Miss G say they were not provided with the terms and conditions or other key 
documentation at the point of sale. Their representative suggests this was a breach of the 
timeshare regulations so contributed to the alleged unfair debtor-creditor relationship. I can 
see that at the time of sale, Mr C and Miss G signed a document to confirm they had been 
provided with the documentation relevant to their sale. I am aware the supplier offered the 
service of having the paperwork bundle sent to a consumers UK address if they were 
holidaying at the point of sale. It is possible that is what happened in this case. But I am not 
persuaded this created an unfair lending relationship or detrimentally impacted 
Mr C and Miss G to such an extent that they did not know what the product was that they 
had taken out, how it worked in practice or their right to cancel. 
In its most recent response to this service, Mr C and Miss Gs representative argues that the 
supplier didnt make it clear that the contract was not an investment in real estate. It goes on 
to say that the companies had no ownership of the properties they were selling rights on and 
a suggestion that the company Mr C and Miss G had a membership with didnt exist. It 
suggests this is a breach of contract and misrepresented the product to such an extent that it 
generated an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
The representative has not provided evidence to support that Mr C and Miss G were told 
they were making an investment in property and the documentation they signed at the time 
confirmed it was not. The product Mr C and Miss G purchased was a points-based 
membership which enabled them to holiday across the suppliers portfolio and they have told 
this service they were hoping to use the product to holiday in Spain. So, I am not persuaded 
Mr C and Miss G thought they were buying an investment in property or that the product they 
ended up with was so different from what they thought they were purchasing that it 
generated an unfairness between the parties.
 
I also note the representative has suggested that an unlicenced company brokered the 
finance in this sale. But from the evidence provided to me, the specific company which 
brokered the sale was licenced by the OFT at the time. So, I do not see a need to comment 
on this point further.
Overall, therefore, I dont think a court is likely to conclude that the relationship between 
Mr C, Miss G and FHF was unfair. And for that reason, I dont think FHF has to do anything 
further in relation to Mr C and Miss Gs Section 140A claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman