DRN-4471808
The complaint
Mr M complains that Premium Choice Ltd unfairly charged him when he cancelled his car 
insurance policy within the 14-day cooling off period. 
What happened
Mr M bought car insurance through Premium Choice in early May 2023. He says he tried to 
contact Premium Choice on several occasions shortly afterwards because he wasnt sure if 
hed be covered while driving in Europe. As he couldnt get through, he told them a few days 
later that he wanted to cancel his policy. Premium Choice cancelled his policy about five 
days later and asked him to pay fees and charges amounting to about £90. They sent a final 
reminder to Mr M in June 2023 and then passed the matter to debt collection agents, who 
contacted Mr M in July 2023. 
Mr M complained to Premium Choice. He said he and his wife had been upset when theyd 
received the letter from the debt collection agents. And the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) had told him Premium Choice shouldnt charge him anything as he cancelled his 
policy during the 14-day cooling off period. 
Premium Choice didnt think theyd done anything wrong and explained why and how theyd 
applied the charges they were seeking to collect. They said theyd decided, as a gesture of 
goodwill, to waive their administration fee of £50. This left an amount of about £40 to be 
collected, which was the minimum amount the insurers charged for the time Mr M had been 
covered. Mr M wasnt satisfied so pursued his complaint with this service.
Our investigator didnt think Premium Choice had acted unfairly. She thought theyd made 
their charges sufficiently clear before Mr M had bought the policy. And noted that the 
Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) said that fees could be charged during 
the cooling off period as long as they were proportionate to the service provided. She said 
that Premium Choice had waived its fee and if Mr M wanted to pursue the insurers charge, 
hed need to complain to the insurer. She said shed be happy to help him do that.
As Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. He thought Premium Choice had breached the contract between them as they 
hadnt provided any service to him and so shouldnt be entitled to charge any fees. He wants 
a full refund.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know hell be disappointed 
with my decision, so let me explain why I think its fair.
As our investigator explained, ICOBS sets out how businesses are expected to interact with 
consumers. As Mr M has pointed out, a consumer has the right to cancel certain insurance 
policies without penalty and without giving a reason within 14 days of taking the policy out. 
But the rules go on to say that, if a consumer chooses to cancel in this way, they can be 
charged:
A proportionate premium for the time the policy was in force; and
An administration fee thats proportionate to the service provided, with no element of 
profit.
 
The rules also say a business can only charge an administration fee (which includes a 
cancellation fee) if it can show a consumer was duly informed about the amount payable 
before they took out the policy.
Premium Choice has said Mr M got a quote for his car insurance with them via a price 
comparison website. They said their Terms of Business Agreement and the insurers Policy 
Wording document were both available online prior to purchase. And Mr M had to click to 
confirm hed read and agreed to the Terms of Business Agreement before buying the policy. 
Looking at both of those documents, they set out what charges would apply if Mr M 
cancelled his policy in the 14-day cooling off period. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
him to have known what would happen if he did that. 
Mr M says Premium Choice didnt provide a service to him so he doesnt think they should 
be entitled to a fee. But Premium Choice has said it does incur costs when an insurance 
policy is bought and when its cancelled. It said this includes administration, staffing and 
system costs, as well as communicating with the customer and the insurer about the 
cancellation of the policy. I think thats fair and in line with ICOBS. 
Mr M says he was told by the FCA that Premium Choice couldnt charge him for any 
services in the 14-day cooling off period. I wasnt privy to those conversations so I cant 
comment on what was said. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied it was fair 
and reasonable for Premium Choice to charge Mr M a fee even though he cancelled within 
the 14-day cooling off period. 
In any event, Premium Choice have waived their £50 cancellation fee as a gesture of 
goodwill. So, Mr M no longer has to pay that amount.
The remaining amount of about £40 is the insurers fee for the time Mr M was covered under 
the terms of the policy hed paid for. I recognise this was only a few days, but Premium 
Choice has confirmed the insurer would have covered him had he needed to make a claim in 
that period. So, it only seems fair that Mr M should pay an amount for that service. As Ive 
noted above, ICOBS says businesses can charge a proportionate premium for the time the 
policy was in force, even when the policy is cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period. 
Like our investigator, I cant comment on whether the insurers premium was proportionate 
for the time the policy was in force. Our investigator has offered to help Mr M pursue a 
complaint against the insurer if he so wishes. What I can say is that the fee charged by the 
insurer was highlighted in the policy documents shared with Mr M before he took out the 
policy. They said he would be entitled to a pro-rata refund of his premium if he decided to 
cancel within 14 days of receiving the policy, subject to a minimum premium of £35 (plus 
Insurance Premium Tax). As this was a minimum charge, the amount wouldnt have been 
any different had Premium Choice cancelled his policy on the date he emailed them rather 
than the date they contacted him. 
In summary, I dont think Premium Choice has treated Mr M unfairly. They were entitled to 
charge him an administration fee when he decided to cancel the policy within the 14-day 
cooling off period. My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman