DRN-3235151
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn No.1 Limited. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr L acquired a used car under a five-year conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The car was five years old and had covered around 75,500 miles. Mr L paid a 
deposit of £200 and part-exchanged his existing car. The cash price of the car he acquired in 
October 2020 was around £6,700.
Mr L experienced several problems with the car and took it to a garage (who Ill call F) in 
February 2021. F noted that both front anti roll bar links had excessive play in the lower ball 
joints and that both upper joint gaiters were split. F also noted that the brake fluid was 
excessively contaminated, the front wheel alignment was out causing uneven wear to the 
front tyres and the filters and oil from the engine were in very poor condition. 
The car then suffered a mechanical failure while Mr L was driving it causing him to lose 
steering which resulted in the car veering across traffic on the opposite side of the road. Mr L 
says the car cabin filled with thick smoke and that this resulted in him being hospitalised for 
smoke inhalation and caused him to lose time off work sick. 
Mr L complained to Moneybarn who then commissioned an independent report into the 
condition of the car. The engineer noted that the handbrake was unusable, and the petrol 
cap had snapped off. He also noted that the turbocharger was rattling and suspected that 
the car had run on its own oil and had heavily smoked before the car had been starved of oil 
and had then switched off. The engineer said that he wasnt able to look at the condition of 
the oil and air filters, however he noted there was no oil shown on the dipstick and 
concluded that the car had likely failed because the car had starved itself of oil. The engineer 
said he thought the faults with the car wouldnt have been developing at the point Mr L 
acquired it and didnt think Moneybarn was liable as a result. 
The engineer did though note that the car needed to be stripped and investigated further to 
confirm the extent of the damage caused and the cause of the fault. 
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint as they felt there was no evidence of an inherent 
fault with the car and that it had failed because of a lack of engine oil. Mr L disagreed and 
said that he had made sure the oil level had been topped up sufficiently. He said that there 
was evidence that the car hadnt been serviced by the supplying dealership prior to him 
acquiring it. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ls complaint but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
said that she thought that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L 
and felt the faults with the car happened due to wear and tear. 
Mr L didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L acquired the car using a regulated conditional sale agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these types of agreements. Moneybarn is the supplier of 
the goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr L entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied are of satisfactory 
quality, fit for their intended purpose, and as described. The CRA says that goods will be 
considered to be of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid 
and other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, these circumstances might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history. 
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability. 
The car Mr L acquired was around five years old, had covered around 75,500 miles and had 
a cash price of around £6,700. My starting point is therefore that it would be reasonable to 
expect the car to likely need more maintenance than a brand-new car and have components 
which have suffered some wear and tear already.
The independent inspection that was carried out, and to which I referred above, didnt give a 
definitive reason for why the car broke down as it did. The engineer thought it likely that the 
car had run on its own oil and this ultimately led to oil starvation. However, I note that the 
engineer mentioned that the car needed to be stripped for further investigation to be carried 
out. So, while he felt it likely there wasnt something inherently wrong with the car when it 
was supplied to Mr L, I think it does open the possibility that further investigation might have 
led to a different conclusion. 
That being said though, the car is no longer available for further inspection as I gather it was 
sold at auction. That does present a problem as a more thorough examination of the fault 
and the cause of the fault cannot now happen. 
Having carefully considered the evidence, I cant discount the possibility that the car failed as 
it did due to the lack of servicing that had occurred prior to the point of supply. Ive seen the 
service history of the car and note that the last service was carried out in July 2017 at 
around 33,350 miles. This was over two years prior to Mr L acquiring the car and by the time 
he did acquire it, the car had covered a further 40,000 miles. F carried out what they 
described as a short service in February 2021. However, its possible that the lack of 
servicing prior to that still led to the cars components wearing and failing. 
Ive not seen how the supplying dealership advertised the car prior to Mr L acquiring it. So I 
cant be satisfied that they misrepresented the car to Mr L as being fully serviced in line with 
any of the manufacturers requirements or recommendations. Nor was there any legal 
requirement for the dealership to have ensured this was carried out prior to advertising it for 
sale. Mr L of course had the opportunity to ask the dealership about the service history, but 
Ive not seen sufficient evidence that this was asked and that the dealership gave a 
misleading answer.Clearly what happened to Mr L when the car failed was extremely frightening for him and the 
impact of this on Mr L cannot be understated. However, my consideration of this case 
centres on the quality of the car when it was supplied to Mr L. For the reasons Ive given 
above, I cant be satisfied that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at that time. So, while I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr L, I will not be upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman