DRN-3901723
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was advised by Portal Financial Services LLP to transfer two 
personal pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to be invested in investments 
that werent suitable for her. Causing her to suffer a loss in the value of her pension.
What happened
Mrs H was advised by Portal in 2014 about her personal pensions. She was aged 47 at the 
time. Portal identified that she had two separate personal pension policies that had 
combined fund values around £9,000.
Portal documented that, at the time of providing advice, Mrs H was:
Married with a dependent child
Mrs H was unemployed and receiving benefits
She had a debt management plan
She had no other savings or investments
Portal documented the following objectives for Mrs H:
To consolidate her pension plans
Higher investment performance
Passing benefits to her family
More flexibility and control
Invest in a specific area and move away from equity based investments
Would like to retire at age 55
It conducted a fact-find and determined Mrs H to have a balanced attitude to investment risk 
(ATR). 
It advised Mrs H to transfer her personal pensions to a SIPP and to invest her pension fund 
in the following way:
Lakeview UK Investments plc
Real Estate Investments USA plc
Strategic Residential Developments plc
Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond
Dimensional World Equity
Mrs H followed Portals advice. But has subsequently seen the unregulated structured 
investments fail which has caused her the loss of a large part of her pension portfolio. Mrs H 
complained to Portal about the suitability of its recommendation to transfer her pensions in 
August 2021. Portal didnt consider the merits of her case as it thought shed made the 
complaint too late. 
Our investigator explained why he didnt think Mrs H had brought her complaint late. And 
went on to give his opinion on the merits for Portal to consider. Portal didnt agree with what 
the investigator said and asked for an ombudsman to give a final decision on this case.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In it I gave my decision on jurisdiction. I 
explained why Mrs Hs complaint was made in time and said that I wouldnt specifically 
revisit my decision on jurisdiction again in my final decision unless Portal provided new 
evidence that caused me to reconsider the matter. 
In my provisional decision I then went on to consider the merits of Mrs Hs complaint. I 
explained my provisional findings for both sides to consider and respond if required. I 
explained why I considered that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. I explained what I 
thought Portal should do to put Mrs H into the position she would have been if shed not 
transferred. I suggested that Portal should compare what her pension would have been 
worth if shed never transferred, with what it ended up being worth. And paying Mrs H the 
difference. I also recommended that Portal pay an additional £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision, explaining that she wanted the full amount back 
that had been lost in the Lakeview investment and didnt think that £250 was enough 
compensation.
Portal havent responded with any further comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen no further evidence on the matter of jurisdiction. Ive considered the evidence that I 
do have again and remain satisfied that Mrs Hs complaint was made within the time limits. 
Specifically, that she brought her complaint within three years of when she ought to have 
had cause to complain. So I wont repeat the rationale for this decision again here. 
I havent been provided with further evidence following my provisional finding. And having 
considered everything in this case again, I still think that Mrs Hs complaint should be 
upheld. What follows are the reasons, that I set out in my provisional decision, why I dont 
think Portals recommendation to Mrs H was suitable for her.
Portal assessed Mrs Hs ATR as being balanced. Which, in summary, it described as 
meaning she had a moderate level of knowledge of financial matters, may have had some 
investment experience including investing in products containing risky assets such as 
equities and bonds. 
Portal shared the questionnaire that it used to assess Mrs Hs attitude to risk. It gives 
Mrs Hs responses, although doesnt share the scoring that implied she had a balanced 
ATR. Her responses indicated a lack of experience of investing, little experience of investing 
in property, being uncomfortable investing in the stock market, preferring bank deposits to 
riskier investments. Overall, I find it surprising that Portal had these answers, as well as 
understanding Mrs Hs circumstances and accepted that she was likely to have a balanced 
ATR. Other than the two pensions she held, which were occupational schemes, she seems 
to have had no investment experience. I think that a more cautious ATR might better have 
fitted the information Portal had. Equally important though is the capacity that Mrs H had to suffer investment loss on these 
pensions. She was seven or eight years away from being able to access her pension 
benefits. The pensions were small pots, and she seemed unlikely to have time or means to 
contribute or replace any losses. Whilst she would likely have wanted growth in the funds, 
her capacity for loss on these pensions was very low. Portal gave little comment to this in its 
suitability report other than to say that her capacity for loss was suitable for the 
recommendation that it made. But I dont think it was. I dont think that Portal considered 
Mrs Hs precarious financial position.
Mrs H had personal pensions that on the face of it seemed to already be appropriate for her. 
There is no documented evidence that Portal considered the question of leaving her 
pensions where they were. Which ought to have been considered as a starting point as they 
appear to have already met her objectives of leaving the fund to her family and being able to 
access benefits at 55. To recommend a transfer Portal needed to demonstrate that it was in 
Mrs Hs best interests to do so.
The larger of her two pensions had an annual management charge of 0.05%, plus a fund 
charge of 0.35%. It had a five year average performance of 11.18%. The smaller pension 
had an annual management charge of 1% a year and had a five year average performance 
of 10.79%. So it doesnt seem the case that they were obviously performing poorly, or that 
they had particularly high charges.
The SIPP that Portal recommended had a platform charge of 0.5%. But there would 
additionally be fund charges that Portal didnt specify. So I dont think that its clear whether 
the SIPP was the cheaper option for either pension. Also a SIPP is pension product intended 
for customers requiring more control or access to a wider range of investment choices. It is 
more complex and meant that Mrs H was more likely to need periodic reviews than if shed 
left her pensions where they were. Which added a further ongoing cost in the form of an 
additional 1% adviser charge to be paid to Portal each year. So, overall, I dont think Portals 
recommendation offered better value for money for Mrs H.
Ive also considered whether the overall recommended investment strategy was suitable for 
Mrs H. My starting point for this is that I think that Portal over estimated Mrs Hs ATR as Ive 
explained. And failed to properly consider Mrs Hs capacity for loss.
It recommended an investment strategy that required two separate wrappers to be set up in 
the SIPP. One of those received the transfer from the larger pension, around £6,800. And 
recommended that be invested across a short-dated bond fund and an equity fund. These 
were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) providing a balance of security and 
opportunity for growth.
The second wrapper received the transfer from the smaller pension fund, around £2,300. 
Portal recommended it be invested in the following:
Lakeview UK Investments plc
Real Estate Investments USA plc
Strategic Residential Developments plc
These investments were unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) which were not 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They were collective investments  
structures where many investors pool their money to be invested in the specified way. But 
Portal didnt explain this to Mrs H. It referred to them variously as: investment bonds; 
secured bonds and structured investments.At the time that Portal made its recommendation to Mrs H, the FCA had already published a 
report in 2010 about good and poor practice regarding UCIS. It highlighted its concern that 
UCIS were being recommended to customers for whom they werent suitable. These types 
of funds can have a high degree of volatility. They didnt provide a great deal of past 
performance on which Portal could base its recommendation. They ought to have been 
treated as speculative investments, only suitable for certain types of investors and only 
considered for a small part of an investment portfolio. Instead, Portal recommended that 
Mrs H invest almost a quarter of her pension into these types of investments.
I think that Portals description of these funds misrepresented them as potentially being quite 
safe. It should have made it clearer that these funds were unregulated and offered no 
protection through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in the event that 
the schemes defaulted.
For the reasons Ive given, these investments werent suitable for Mrs Hs ATR or her 
capacity for loss. These investments were speculative and it was unsuitable to recommend 
their being included in the portfolio for Mrs H. 
Portals overall reason for transferring the pension was that it met her objectives. So Ive 
looked at the objectives that Portal identified. 
Transferring both of her personal pensions did achieve the stated aim of consolidating her 
pensions. But Im not sure that, as an objective in itself, it would have been an especially 
compelling reason to switch. And not to be invested in the way that was recommended.
The transfer probably offered Mrs H greater investment choices and more flexibility and 
control. But I am not convinced that this was genuinely a compelling objective for Mrs H. As 
Ive said, she had no investment experience, and I think it was unlikely that she would 
exercise control or needed the greater fund choice.
Portal identified that Mrs H wanted potentially higher investment performance. Which is likely 
to be the case for every consumer. But Portal needed to weigh that up against her ATR and 
capacity for loss. These pensions were relatively small, so Mrs Hs options with them in the 
time remaining to being able to access them, was relatively limited. Portal provided no 
comparison of likely performance of its recommendation, including charges, with her existing 
schemes. It wasnt clear to Mrs H how or why the recommendation would outperform her 
existing arrangements. And given their sizes, whether any likely improvement warranted 
additional risk. 
It follows that I dont think Portals recommendation was suitable for Mrs H. The advice to 
invest in the way it recommended in the SIPP was given as a whole, deliberately including a 
balance of a bond fund, equity based fund and the UCIS. It was, overall, unsuitable for her. 
So I havent isolated the different wrappers in considering this. Further I cannot see a 
compelling reason for Mrs H to have transferred at all at that stage. She wasnt in a position 
to take her benefits, and no advice was given regarding that. But for Portals unsuitable 
advice to switch, I think its more likely than not that Mrs Hs pensions would have remained 
where they were.
Putting things right
To address Mrs Hs concerns following my provisional decision, I dont think its as simple 
as refunding the amount invested in the Lakeview investment. That amount would have 
remained invested elsewhere and would have been subject to the impact of that investment 
instead. My aim is that Mrs H should be put as closely as possible into the position she 
would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. Whilst it appears complicated, what Ive set out is, I think, the fairest way to do that. 
I think Mrs H would most likely have remained with her previous provider. However I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policies would have been 
worth. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when she was advised.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's SIPP with the notional value if it had remained 
with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is 
a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mrs H's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs H is likely to be a nil rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so no reduction would apply in this case.
In addition to putting right any loss that Mrs H has suffered  as set out in the steps 
above  Portal must pay Mrs H £250 for the distress she was caused in seeing a large 
part of her pension fund reduced to nil value as she neared the age that she could take 
her benefits.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs H how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs H asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
Portal should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the illiquid asset the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Mrs H provides an undertaking to 
pay Portal any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan.
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs H's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mrs H's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mrs H can discuss with the provider directly. But I 
dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment and illiquid investments remain in the SIPP, to provide 
certainty to all parties I think its fair that it pays Mrs H an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). 
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the Novia SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs H into that position. It does not mean that 
Mrs H would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs H could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to compensate Mrs H as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman