DRN-3503411
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) mis-sold their travel insurance policy. My references to Mapfre 
include its agents.
 What happened
Mrs and Mr L bought an annual travel insurance, insured by Mapfre. The policy says the 
business that sold the policy is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mapfre. 
In March 2020 Mrs and Mr L curtailed their trip abroad due the Covid-19 pandemic. They 
made a curtailment claim on the policy. They complained about the service they received 
around that claim including that they couldnt contact Mapfre for assistance and Mapfre had 
responded to their online claim form with the message there is no cover for this claim. 
Mapfre said there was an error with its online claim system which caused the claim to show 
as declined in error. It told Mrs and Mr L the claim was not declined and it would be 
assessed when they provided necessary evidence about their claim. Mapfre paid Mrs and 
Mr L a total of £275 in compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to the 
problems with its service, which was equivalent to a refund of the premiums from the time 
Mr and Mrs L first raised their claim online, and the full cost of cruise extension cover.  
Weve considered Mrs and Mr Ls complaint about having no full premium refund and 
Mapfres service as a separate complaint.
In their complaint form Mrs and Mr L said the policy was mis-sold as the policy stated there 
was cover for curtailment but no cover had been provided. So they wanted the full policy 
premium to be refunded. 
We considered the mis-sale complaint as a separate complaint. Our investigator said there 
was no evidence the policy had been mis-sold.
Mrs and Mr L disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary they said the proof 
the policy was mis-sold was that:
Mapfre hadnt paid their curtailment claim and although they hadnt continued this 
complaint for more money they want Mapfre reprimanded for the way they were 
treated. 
When they tried to claim for curtailment Mapfre hadnt given the assistance the policy 
said was provided. Although the policy said to contact Mapfre by phone before 
curtailing and submit their claim online those options werent available or faulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only about Mrs and Mr Ls complaint that the policy was mis-sold. My 
ombudsman colleague made a final decision on their complaint about Mapfres  service 
around the claim and not providing a full premium refund. That ombudsman decided the 
£275 compensation Mapfre had already paid Mrs and Mr L was fair and Mapfre didnt have 
to refund the full premium. 
I find that Mapfre didnt mis-sell the policy to Mrs and Mr L. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr L have said theyre not interested in pursuing their curtailment claim. But as they 
said in their complaint form that one of the reasons the policy was mis-sold was because the 
policy shows curtailment as being covered but their claim wasnt paid Ill address that issue.
The policy does cover curtailment subject to the policy terms and conditions. Mapfre has 
been clear it hasnt declined Mrs and Mr Ls curtailment claim and its waiting for further  
information from them to assess the claim. So if Mrs and Mr L were able to provide the 
supporting evidence it may be their curtailment claim would be covered. Even if the claim 
wasnt covered that doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. It would mean the claim 
circumstances werent covered by the policy requirements necessary for a successful claim.
The policy does say that a policyholder needs to get Mapfres permission if they need to 
curtail their trip (although on a fair and reasonable basis we may say that in some 
circumstances Mapfres lack of prior permission shouldnt mean a claim isnt paid). The 
policy also says a curtailment claim can be submitted online. 
Mrs and Mr L werent able to contact Mapfre when they phoned about curtailing and the 
online claim system had a technical error. They say that means the policy was mis-sold. 
Theyve referred to legislation which they believe is relevant and say Mapfre breached the 
legislation because of those problems.
Its for the court to decide whether a business had breached legislation. But I take into 
account the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards  in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. I dont think the   
problems with Mapfres service meant the policy had been mis-sold. The policy still provided 
Mrs and Mr L with travel insurance for the insured events detailed in the policy, subject to 
claims meeting the policy terms and conditions. 
As there were problems with Mapfres service an appropriate remedy was for it to consider 
whether to pay Mrs and Mr L compensation. It did so and my ombudsman colleague decided 
Mapfre had paid a reasonable amount.
Ive seen no evidence which shows Mapfre mis-sold the policy to Mrs and Mr L. Theres no 
basis for Mapfre to refund any remaining policy premium to them.
I note Mrs and Mr L asked that Mapfre be reprimanded. Were not the industry regulator and 
its not our role to punish/fine businesses. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman