DRN-3175303
The complaint
Ms P has complained that complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down her 
business interruption insurance claim after her business was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Ms P has been helped in bringing her complaint by a representative. However, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Ms P.
What happened
Ms P held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. She claimed on her policy
after her business was impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19.
Covea turned down the claim. It said while the policy did cover a specified list of diseases,
Covid-19 wasnt on that list. As Ms P was unhappy with Coveas response she brought her 
complaint to our service.
Ms P thinks that various parts of the policy provide cover. Ive set out her reasoning for this, 
below.
Damage
Ms P said that her business closed in March 2020 as a result of the Governments response 
to the pandemic. Ms P said the core loss of income cover under the policy covers accidental 
damage and although damage is defined as physical loss or destruction or damage to 
Property no further clarification is provided. As such, she thinks her claim should succeed 
under damage from any other cause.
 
Ms P referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) to 
support her view that the policy should cover losses flowing from the interruption of her 
business due to Covid-19. 
Extension for denial of access
Ms P said that as other businesses in the local area also had to close, this also caused 
interruption to her business. 
Extension for infectious diseases
Ms P thinks that her claim should be covered under two parts of the infectious diseases 
extension. She said as there were people within 25 miles of her business premises who had 
Covid-19 which is a human infectious or contagious disease and therefore covered by the 
policy. 
Ms P said that the list of diseases covered under the policy are the same diseases as those 
listed under the Health Protection (Notifiable) Regulations 2010, including SARS. She said 
there is nothing to say the list is exhaustive and if it was Coveas intention to exclude Covid-
19 then the policy would have specifically said it excludes new diseases in the same way it 
excludes AIDS or any AIDS-related conditions.  
Ms P also said that her premises had been closed due to defects in the sanitary 
arrangements. She said the dictionary definition of sanitary means relating to health or the 
conditions affecting health, especially with reference to cleanliness, precautions against 
disease, etc. Ms P said the Governments guidance was in order to close her premises for 
health reasons. 
Extension for public emergency
Ms P said that while this extension includes an exclusion for infectious or contagious 
diseases, it is contradictory to say that cover doesnt apply under both this extension and the 
extension for infectious diseases. 
Other factors
Ms P also said that she had expected to be covered following a statement made by the
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that her 
policy would provide cover in these circumstances. She added that where a policy is 
ambiguous it should be read in favour of the policyholder.
Ms P also said that she had complied with all claims conditions of the policy.
Initial assessment
Our investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of her claim.
Ms P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In particular she said as the policy 
covered SARS, it should also cover Covid-19. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will 
instead focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mrs P and her business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ms Ps claim.
Damage
The core loss of income section of Ms Ps policy provides cover for:Business Interruption at Your Premises resulting in Loss of Gross Income 
occurring in the Indemnity Period following an Incident during the Period of 
Insurance caused by the operation of a Specified Peril insured under the Material 
Damage Section
An incident is defined as:
an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business carried on at 
the Premises
The policy defines Damage as:
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property 
For this part of the policy to provide cover the interruption to Ms Ps business would need to 
be as a result of damage, caused by a specified peril, to insured property used by Ms P at 
her business premises. One of the specified perils is accidental damage and its under this 
peril that Ms P thinks her claim should be covered. However, I dont think this would provide 
cover for Ms Ps claim, because I dont think Covid-19 caused damage to property at her 
premises.
Ms P has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020). 
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. While Ive 
considered this case, Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to   
Ms Ps claim, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 
(Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands 
Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Ms Ps property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Ms Ps
premises. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings1 
doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive 
amount of SARS-CoV-2 on Ms Ps property. And the presence of any particular virus isnt 
automatically damage. So, I dont think Covid-19 has damaged Ms Ps property because 
there is no evidence that SARSCoV-2 has caused any physical change or altered the state 
of any property which resulted in interruption to her business. 
Extension for denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers 
interruption or interference with Ms Ps business in consequence of:
an Incident as insured by this Section, occasioned by Damage to Property in 
the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the use or access to the 
premises
The policy again requires there to have been damage to property. I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the vicinity of Ms Ps premises, 
therefore, I dont think this extension covers her claim. 
Extension for infectious diseasesThis extension says that it extends cover to include interruption or interference with Ms Ps 
business in consequence of closure (or part of) of the premises on the order or advice of any 
government or local authority as a result of:
1) any human infectious or contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any 
person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises

         4) defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the Premises
Under the heading Section Definitions the policy says that wherever the following words 
appear with an upper case letter they will have a specific definition. The definition for 
Disease sets out a list of any of the following diseases which doesnt include Covid-19.  
Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Covea might have known about when the policy 
was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable diseases. While I 
accept that this list reflects the list of other notifiable diseases, Ms Ps policy does not say 
that it covers notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of diseases which are 
covered by the policy.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded, 
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not 
included, including any new diseases which emerge. I think by setting out that the policy 
covers the following diseases this shows that it is an exhaustive list. 
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease. 
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the 
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are 
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same.
As I dont think this extension provides cover for any disease not listed in the definition, I 
dont think its relevant to Ms Ps claim whether or not there was anyone within Covid-19 
within a 25 mile radius of her business premises. 
For 4) to provide cover the closure of Ms Ps premises would need to be as a result of 
defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at her business premises. 
While the dictionary definition might relate to health or preventing the spread of disease, I 
think this extension would reasonably be taken to mean the closure was due to problems 
with the premises toilets or washing facilities, rather than to allow for social distancing or to 
prevent the spread of a disease. In any event, I dont think the Governments advice on 
social distancing or requiring businesses to close was due to a defect in their sanitary 
arrangements as businesses were required to close irrespective of their sanitary 
arrangements. 
Extension for public emergency
This extension covers the: actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely 
to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the premises; excluding:

4) Infectious or contagious diseases
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment is relevant to Ms Ps complaint, because the High Court 
considered a similar term to that within Ms Ps policy and this part of the judgment wasnt 
appealed.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the Court. I think Ms Ps premises
closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as
an infectious disease. 
I dont accept Ms Ps point that the exclusion doesnt apply. The word disease doesnt have 
an upper case D which indicates that the ordinary meaning of the word applies rather than 
the definition set out in the policy. Therefore, this extension doesnt cover Ms Ps claim.
Other factors
Although Ms P might have had an expectation that her claim would be covered, or 
understood the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still 
depend on the wording within her specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ms Ps policy 
provides cover for her claim.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and 
I dont think its relevant that Ms P followed the claims conditions in the policy, as her claim 
isnt covered. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms P was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Ms Ps claim. 
 
final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman