DRN-3494000
The complaint
Miss M complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly 
declined her pet insurance claim.
What happened
Miss M made a claim on her pet insurance policy after her dog required treatment for a limp. 
Casualty & General declined the claim based on the following policy exclusion: 
- Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
When the vet first saw the dog for the limp, she recorded his body condition score (BCS) as 
3.5/5, and five weeks later the score was recorded as 4/5. Casualty & General says the 
scores indicate the dog was overweight.
The vet who treated the dog, and recorded the scores, provided Casualty & General with the 
following comments over two emails:
- A BCS of 3.5/5 is not unhealthily overweight for a puppy of his age. Puppy breeds 
grow at different rates and the speed fluctuates for the individual animal. Even the 
most careful owner may have a puppy thats slightly heavier for a month or so if a 
growth spurt slows down for a period.
- As a diagnosis hasnt been achieved for the lameness, its impossible to say at this 
stage whether it could have been prevented by the dog being a BCS of 3/5. 
However, the vets involved believe it to be highly unlikely.
- The claim decision isnt backed by the clinical findings so far.
- A BCS of between 2.5-3.5 (out of 5) is acceptable with leeway given to puppies who 
are growing, especially for large breed puppies.
- Five weeks after the dogs BCS was recorded as 4/5, her colleague recalls him being 
a normal 3/5. His BCS has fluctuated, but this is to be expected for a growing puppy. 
No issue with his weight was noted.
Casualty & General maintained its claim decision, so Miss M brought her complaint to this 
service. In view of the vets comments, one of our investigators thought the exclusion had 
been unfairly applied. He thought Casualty & General should pay the claim (plus 8% 
interest) and £150 compensation. 
Casualty & General disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. Casualty & General has noted that when the breed in question is fully 
grown, at two years, its ideal weight should be between 29-36kg. However, the dog was 
29.6kg at ten months, and it had put on 10kg over a four-month period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Casualty & General wish to decline the claim based on a policy exclusion, it needs to 
demonstrate, on balance, that the exclusion applies. Im not persuaded its done so.
For the exclusion to apply, the claim and treatment must have resulted from the dog being 
over a vets recommended medical weight.
All the charts Ive seen from various on-line sources show 3/5 as the ideal weight. However, 
the BCS is based on a physical examination and its not an exact science. In my view, the 
BCS cant reasonably be relied on to decline a claim without considering the scoring vets 
supporting comments, particularly where its only 0.5 above the ideal weight score. 
Its evident from the treating vets emails she didnt consider the dog to be overweight when 
recording a BCS of 3.5/5, or that the dogs weight was the cause of the problem. It follows 
that Im more persuaded by her relatively detailed explanation, than a number she simply 
recorded.
It also follows that the dog could have put on some weight prior to being seen by the vet, due 
to the lameness limiting physical activity, rather than the lameness having been caused by 
extra weight.
Casualty & General has also relied on the fact the dog put on nearly 10kg over a four-month 
period. When he was five months old, the vet recorded his weight as 19kg. Three months 
later he saw the vet due to the limp, and about six weeks later the dogs weight was 
recorded as 28.9kg.
Although the dog put on nearly 10kg over four months, the vet has explained puppies grow 
at different rates, and importantly, no concerns were noted about the dogs weight when he 
was first seen for the limp. Furthermore, his weight wasnt recorded at that time. Therefore, 
Casualty & General dont know how much weight was put on between the age of five and 
when the vet first saw him for the limp. A relatively significant part of the 10kg could have 
been put on during the six weeks after the vet first saw him for the limp, due to the limp.
In conclusion, Im not persuaded that Casualty & General has, on balance, shown the claim 
and treatment resulted from the dog being over a vets recommended medical weight. As 
such, I find Casualty & General should now pay the claim. It will need to add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date Miss M paid the vet bills, to the date of settlement.
I also agree with our investigator that Casualty & General should compensate Miss M £150, 
for the upset and inconvenience caused by its unfair claim decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should:
- settle the claim, and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date Miss M paid 
the vet bills, to the date of settlement; and- pay Miss M £150 compensation.
If Casualty & General considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from any interest paid, it should let Miss M know how much its taken off. If requested, 
it should also provide her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman