DRN-2303491
The complaint
Mr F complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr F was given a log book loan by Loans 2 Go in May 2016. Here are the loan details: 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
1 May 2016 July 2017 36 £1,800 £248
The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was £8,928.
This was a loan provided on the basis that Mr F gave Loans 2 Go a bill of sale for his 
car. This meant that Loans 2 Go  owned the car and if Mr F didnt make his loan 
repayments, Loans 2 Go could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the 
vehicle.
In summary, Mr F mainly complained that the loan was unaffordable for him as he was 
already struggling to manage payday loan debt  and this loan added to his debt problems.
When Mr F first complained, Loans 2 Go said the information Mr F provided, along with 
what it could see on the credit checks it carried out, showed that the loan looked 
affordable for him. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Fs complaint. He came to the 
view that Loans 2 Go shouldve seen from the credit checks it did that Mr F was already 
experiencing serious problems managing his finances and he said this shouldve 
prompted Loans 2 Go to decline Mr Fs loan application. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps he thought Loans 2 Go  should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. So it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr F the regulator was the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). I have considered the relevant regulations and guidance, and 
this includes the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. FCA regulations obliged lenders to 
lend responsibly. This meant that Loans 2 Go needed to make a reasonable assessment of 
Mr Fs creditworthiness before it agreed any lending. It had to consider whether or not Mr F 
could afford to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. This meant that Loans 2 Go had to satisfy itself that Mr F would be able to repay 
the loan out of his normal income while meeting his other reasonable commitments, without 
putting him in the position of needing to raise extra money to do this, for instance by 
borrowing elsewhere to pay the loan. 
The regulations leave it up to lenders to decide what checks to carry out before lending  but 
checks should be reasonable and proportionate having regard to the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments 
and the total cost of the credit.
The assessment needed to be consumer-focussed. It was not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender, but of the risk to the consumer. So even in this case where Mr F had provided 
security for his loan in the form of a bill of sale for his car, Loans 2 Go still needed to assess 
whether he would be able to make the loan repayments without this being a problem for him.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id expect a lender to carry out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make 
repayments for an extended   period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Fs case, I have 
carefully considered the following questions:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Fs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
 Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
 Did Loans 2 Go act in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable?  
Loans 2 Go asked Mr F for details of his income and expenditure and carried out a 
credit check to establish his identity and gain an understanding of his financial situation. 
It also asked Mr F for his pay slips to verify his employment situation and the income 
that he had declared. 
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go had gathered when it agreed to provide this 
loan. 
Mr Fs average monthly salary was around £2,917. Loans 2 Go deducted from this the 
monthly expenditure and existing credit commitments it had recorded for Mr F. It said in its 
final response letter to Mr F that this figure came out at around £1,907.Loans 2 Go allowed £60 for any fluctuations in Mr Fs income or extra unplanned 
spending and worked out on this basis that Mr F should have around £1000 left to spend. 
So, on the face of it, it seems that he had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
contractual loan repayment of £248, particularly bearing in mind that Mr F had said the 
loan purpose was debt consolidation - in other words, he would use this loan to pay off 
other debt in order to help reduce his monthly outgoings. 
But Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. 
Mr F said that he was in a debt cycle, reliant on payday lending and I think the credit search 
results Loans 2 Go obtained supports this. The information gathered by Loans 2 Go 
showed that Mr F had regularly been borrowing from a number of high cost short term 
lenders over the previous 2 years. Its credit checks showed a total of 70 accounts - 54 of 
these were settled but 16 were active when he applied for this loan. 
Of these, 11 credit accounts had been opened by Mr F within the previous 6 months - and 
at least 2 of these loans appear to have been taken the same month that Mr F approached 
Loans 2 Go for this loan. 
I've taken into account that Loans 2 Go said Mr F had confirmed that the purpose of the loan 
was consolidation so it understood that it was intended to pay off all of the borrowings hed 
taken out in the past 6 to 12 months. And Loans 2 Go also relied on the fact that it had seen 
no court judgements or defaults registered against Mr F and all of his accounts were either 
up to date or settled. 
But Loans 2 Go hasnt shown me it knew which debt was going to be repaid. And the loan it 
provided was paid direct to Mr F and not to any of his other creditors. So Loans 2 Go had no 
control over whether it would in fact be used to pay off other credit. 
Mr Fs recent borrowing track record suggested he was repeatedly borrowing  and that 
this was an established borrowing pattern. I think the lending history Loans 2 Go could 
see on its credit checks should have alerted Loans 2 Go that, as Mr F was regularly 
borrowing from other short-term lenders, it was likely that he was having difficulties 
managing his money.
I think thats borne out by the fact that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did showed Mr F had 
3 credit cards over their credit limit  and they had all been at or near their limit for an 
extended period of time.
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr F wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debt. Given his recent borrowing, there was a real risk that Mr F might 
use this loan to help him meet his immediate need to make loan repayments with the result 
this loan would simply add to his existing debt. 
And even if Mr F had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Loans 2 Go 
was able to safely say this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation given the extent of his debt.
So for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint about this loan.  I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly towards Mr F in 
any other way. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been 
provided to him. So Loans 2 Go should now take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr F shouldnt have repaid more than the 
capital amount he borrowed.
To put things right for Mr F, Loans 2 Go should:
refund everything Mr F paid over and above the principal loan amount and repay this 
to Mr F with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest.
Loans 2 Go must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman