DRN-3965212
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about the handling by Barclays Bank Plc 
(trading as Barclaycard) of its defence of a chargeback request.
Mr S, the director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
The events giving rise to this complaint are well known to both sides. In summary:
On 13 September 2021, Barclays wrote to B notifying it of two chargeback requests 
against B, totalling over £3,000. Barclays requested information within 14 days if B 
wished to defend the chargebacks.
On 17 September, Mr S emailed Barclays with information and evidence to defend 
the chargebacks. However, on 20 September, Barclays responded that Mr Ss email 
couldnt be accepted as it didnt meet the requirements for how a defence needed to 
be provided. Barclays explained how both the email and documents needed to be 
labelled, and the format in which the information needed to be supplied. Barclays 
provided contact details should Mr S have any questions.
On 21 September, Mr S emailed Barclays again with the information and evidence to 
defend the chargebacks. But, the following day, Barclays again responded to say that 
it didnt meet the requirements for submission. Barclays again set out how the 
information needed to be provided.
In October, Mr S tried again but by this time the 14-day period in which to defend the 
chargeback had expired. 
Mr S complained, saying hed provided the evidence to defend the chargebacks. But 
Barclays said it had done nothing wrong. It explained that it had clearly set out the 
requirements for how information had to be provided, and these requirements were not met. 
Therefore, it couldnt be held responsible for the chargeback going through.
Not content with this response, Mr S brought Bs complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things but said that, in her view, Barclays had processed the chargeback request 
in accordance with the terms and conditions and had explained clearly to B how its 
information needed to be provided. She said there was no basis for requiring Barclays to 
take any further action.
Mr S didnt agree with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained to Mr S by our investigator, it is not for me to determine whether Bs 
customer had grounds for raising the chargeback, or to evaluate Bs defence. The 
chargeback process is run by the card scheme and operated according to its rules. 
Bs complaint is against Barclays, so the question for me to consider is whether Barclays 
fulfilled its responsibilities in relation to this chargeback request.
When a chargeback is raised, Barclays must inform its customer quickly, which in this case I 
can see that it did. And Barclays appropriately informed B that it had 14 days in which to 
supply its defence. These matters are not in dispute. The issue in dispute is whether 
Barclays requirements for the format of Bs defence were reasonable, and whether it should 
have done more to support B in providing the information and evidence to defend the 
chargeback.
I have seen that the letter sent by Barclays to B on 13 September notifying it of the 
chargeback specified various pieces of information and evidence which B might supply to 
defend the chargeback, but didnt specify the format in which the information should be 
provided. However, this letter did state clearly in its first paragraph that further information on 
chargebacks was available on the Barclaycard website, providing the necessary link.
On the linked website page, it states clearly:
Were not able to accept any responses by post right now. Instead, you can email us 
at: disputeresponses@barclays.com. But its important that you make sure:
your full case ID is detailed in the document name and the subject line of the 
email 
you provide your response in a single attachment 
you include any important information in the attachments 
your attachments are compatible  we accept Tiff, PDF, JPEG and word 
documents
This sets out very clearly how information is to be provided to Barclays, so that Barclays can 
pass it on to the card scheme in accordance with the card schemes requirements.
Mr S has said that this information was not made sufficiently clear to him. However, in its first 
follow-up email, sent to B on 20 September, Barclays said:
Thanks for your email. Were unable to accept this as its not in the correct format. 
Please re-send your response ensuring that the response meets the below criteria: 
The full case ID (e.g. 1234-15AUG20) is detailed in the document name and 
the subject line of the email
All the information is included in a single attachment as the body of the email 
will not be reviewed
Your attachment is compatible  we accept Tiff, PDF, JPEF or word 
documents
This information was repeated in Barclays second follow-up email to B on 22 September.
While I acknowledge that Mr S might not have understood the requirements for how to 
submit his information and evidence from Barclays first letter on 13 September, I do think 
this was made clear in Barclays emails on both 20 and 22 September.I have also noted that, in the terms and conditions of Barclays agreement with B, it says:
Some examples of the circumstances where condition 4.1 [ie to refund payment due 
to a chargeback] may apply are as follows (although this is not a full list):
a) If you do not give us evidence that the genuine cardholder or account holder 
has authorised the payment or if the evidence you provide to us does not 
keep to the requirements set out in the procedure guide or any operating 
manual.
Operating manual is defined as: 
any operating manuals (including but not limited to any instructions, guides and 
manuals relating to any additional service conditions) which apply and which we (or 
our authorised representatives) make available to you, as updated, amended or 
replaced from time to time.
It appears to me that the instructions made available to Mr S through Barclays website and 
in its two emails on 20 and 22 September would satisfy this description, explaining why, 
according to Barclays terms and conditions, Bs customer might be refunded.
I also believe the requirements set out by Barclays were reasonable. As noted above, the 
chargeback process is governed by the card scheme. Barclays specified how information 
and evidence needed to be provided so that it could be forward to the card scheme quickly, 
in accordance with the card schemes rules. I do not believe Barclays did anything wrong in 
specifying these requirements.
I have looked at the information provided by Mr S to Barclays on 17 and 21 September and, 
although Mr S provided photo evidence, copies of emails and a letter of defence, it was not 
all headed correctly. Therefore, I can see that it did not meet the requirements set out.
As Barclays is unable to alter evidence prior to sending it on to the card scheme, I dont think 
it was possible for Barclays to re-format the information into the format required. Similarly, as 
Barclays is committed under its agreement with the card scheme to ensure the process and 
procedures specified by the card scheme are met, it would not have been appropriate for it 
to forward the information in the incorrect format. Moreover, following the email from 
Barclays to B on 22 September, Mr S still had sufficient time to respond with the information 
in the required format. So I dont believe Barclays did anything wrong in not forwarding Bs 
defence to the card scheme.
It appears to me that Barclays communicated clearly with B, responded quickly to its 
submissions and stated clearly on its website and in two emails to B how information should 
be provided. I also note that Barclays provided a phone number and contact information 
should Mr S have any questions. In these circumstances, I do not believe that I can 
reasonably expect Barclays to have done any more to support B in its defence of the 
chargebacks.
I am very sorry for this situation, as Mr S believes he had strong grounds to defend the 
chargebacks and invested a considerable amount of time and effort in pulling together the 
material for Bs defence. He is understandably aggrieved that his customer has been able to 
claim back funds to which he believes he is legitimately entitled. 
However, I do not believe that I can hold Barclays responsible that Bs defence didnt meet 
the requirements for submission. Overall, it appears to me that Barclays requirements for 
the format of Bs defence were reasonable; and Barclays responded quickly and clearly to 
inform B of these requirements. I dont believe that I can reasonably say that Barclays should have done any more. Therefore, I believe Barclays fulfilled its responsibilities to 
support its customer through the chargeback process and I dont require it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman