DRN-3793652
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2019, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In March 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
Mr H was advised at the point of sale that the monthly loan repayments would be met 
or exceeded by a combination Feed-In-Tariff (FIT) and savings in electricity bills. 
As such, the installation would not result in any additional financial outgoings and 
would ultimately produce a financial benefit once the initial system cost had been 
recovered.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Amongst other comments, the CMC  
reiterated the main points it had already made  primarily that Mr H had been told the 
system would be self-funding. It also said that Mr H didnt recall seeing or being sent multiple 
quotes. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
funding and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quotes, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Three copies of the quotes have been provided to us. Two of them appear to be identical. 
The first shows a higher expected annual generation figure (3,579 kWh) than is shown on 
the MCS certificate (which shows information about the actual system installed). The second 
shows a figure that matches the MCS (2,838 kWh). 
I have set out information below from both quotes. 
I think the first version was most likely generated during the initial sales meeting, and the 
second version was generated on the day of installation, when the details of the system 
changed due to factors on site. Im satisfied that Mr H agreed to the installation having been 
informed of the changes. So, Im satisfied that he agreed to the system being installed with 
expected annual generation of 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Hs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. The CMC has confirmed 
that Mr H discussed was shown and discussed the estimated benefits of the system. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Hs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the system, the amount being 
borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the 
contractual monthly repayments. 
On balance Im satisfied that Mr H was told that the cost of the system was £9,443.95. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,443.95. The monthly payment was £114.02. The total 
amount of credit is £9,443.95 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£13,682.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Hs recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,443.95, it would cost 
Mr H more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Mr H has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
the Mr Hs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely 
to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
First quote
Second quote
I think that from this it is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT income in year 
one of between £229.47 and £181.95 and an electricity saving of £234.10 to £234.25. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement set out that there would be a monthly 
loan repayment due of £114.02. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the Mr H was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment and electricity 
savings from the solar panels generating electricity.
The quotes go on to show the total income and savings Mr H could expect from the system 
(which included voltage and boiler optimisers). This is shown as being £657.01 on the first 
quote and £609.64 on the second. The CMC says that Mr H discussed this figure with the 
salesperson and was told the figures provided were a bare minimum and he should expect 
to receive three to four times the figures provided depending on the weather. Im not 
persuaded by Mr Hs testimony on this point, given the information in the quote. I think it is 
more likely that the salesperson may have said the benefits would increase over time with 
inflation to be three or four times the first years figure. 
The quotes contain the following graphs comparing the benefits (returns) with the cost of the 
system (including loan interest). This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the 
savings and income the entire loan term, with the overall cost being recouped in the 
following years. So, the system would not be self-funding during the term of the loan but 
would have paid for itself by about 15 years after installation.
First quote 
Second quote
Theres a section headed All of our payment options with three tables showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months 
because this is the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £112.59 (slightly less than Mr H 
paid due to him deferring the first loan repayment for three months). For each year of the 10-
year loan it shows the expected annual benefits (FIT payments and energy savings) of the 
system. It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the assumed monthly loan 
repayment of £112.59, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
First quote
Second quote 
I think these tables clearly set out that the overall benefits Mr H could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and energy savings would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments in any year of the ten-year loan term. 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Hs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone. 
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding overall. In doing 
so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the tables are clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
While the first quote showed slightly higher benefits, the difference does not appear 
significant, and it clearly shows the system would not be self-funding within the term of the 
loan. Mr H agreed to the installation of the system, and I think he wouldve known the system 
would generate less electricity and result in slightly lower benefits. 
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by the end of year 15 the overall benefits that 
Mr H could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
First quote
Second quote
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for itself by the 
end of year 15, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced Mr H to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr H. I have looked at Mr Hs FIT statements and Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr H hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman