DRN-2810244
The complaint
Mr T and Mr J complain about the way BUPA Insurance Limited has administered Mr Js 
private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr J was a member of Mr Ts family private medical insurance policy. Hed made claims for 
anxiety and depression. The terms of the family contract provided cover for mental health 
conditions for up to three years, before theyd be excluded. 
Due to an administrative error by BUPA, Mr J was left off the policy at renewal in 2012. Mr T 
complained about BUPAs mistake and it offered Mr T two options. Either he could add Mr J 
back onto the family policy and pay backdated premiums. Or Mr J could take out a new, 
independent underwritten policy at a cheaper price. However, if Mr J took up this option, 
BUPA explained that Mr Js pre-existing conditions of depression and anxiety would be 
excluded from cover. Mr T took up the choice of a new, underwritten policy for Mr J. The 
policy year ran from 5 April 2019 until 4 April 2020.
In 2020, BUPA wrote to Mr T to let him know that the three-year limit for mental health 
claims was being removed from the family policy. But it said that Mr J wouldnt benefit from 
the removal of the limit, due to the depression and anxiety exclusions which already applied 
to his policy.
Mr T was unhappy with the way BUPA had administered Mr Js policy. He felt that Mr J was 
being treated unfairly, given hed have benefited from the removal of the limit if hed still 
been covered by the family policy. He said hed never have taken out the new policy for Mr J 
had he known that the three-year limit would be removed. He was also upset because 
despite being told to only correspond with Mr T due to Mr Js mental health issues, BUPA 
had got in touch with Mr J. This had caused Mr J a lot of distress.
BUPA maintained that as Mr Js policy was fully underwritten, he couldnt benefit from the 
removal of the three-year limit. But it accepted that itd failed to call Mr T back when it had 
said it would and that itd failed to update its records to show that Mr J shouldnt be 
contacted. So it offered Mr T and Mr J compensation of £100 to recognise its poor service.
Mr T remained unhappy with BUPAs position and so he and Mr J asked us to look into this 
complaint.
Our investigator partly upheld Mr T and Mr Js complaint. He was satisfied that based on the 
information available at the time, to both parties, Mr T had decided to take up the 
underwritten policy option. He didnt think he could fairly ask BUPA to change the policy 
terms at this point, following new and unforeseen events. But he didnt think BUPA had 
offered Mr J enough compensation to recognise its error in contacting Mr J. So he 
recommended that BUPA should pay overall compensation of £300.
Neither party accepted the investigators view and so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for BUPA to pay Mr T and Mr J 
£300 total compensation. Ill explain why.
Should BUPA offer Mr J cover without mental health exclusions?
Theres no dispute that following BUPAs error, Mr J was wrongly removed from the family 
cover. This left Mr J without insurance, although it doesnt appear that he needed to make a 
claim during that period. BUPA recognised itd made a mistake and offered Mr T either the 
choice of re-adding Mr J back onto the family policy, on the payment of backdated 
premiums. Or it offered Mr T the option to take a new, underwritten policy, with a lower price. 
It also paid Mr T some compensation. So it appears BUPA dealt with the complaint at that 
time.
Its also clear that Mr T opted to take up the option of an underwritten policy for Mr J. He 
acknowledges he knew that Mr Js pre-existing anxiety and depression wouldnt be covered 
if he made this policy choice. The policy schedule Ive seen also clearly states that Mr J 
wont be covered for anxiety or depression. So it seems to me that Mr T proceeded to take 
out this policy with an awareness of the conditions the policy wouldnt cover.
BUPA has since decided to remove a clause limiting mental health benefit to a three-year 
period from its policies. I appreciate how frustrated Mr T and Mr J must feel, given the 
removal of this clause does apply to Mr Ts family policy and future claims under it, but given 
the exclusions on Mr Js policy, is of no real benefit to him. And I understand why Mr T may 
now make a different decision and add Mr J back on to the family policy.
But as the investigator explained, I need to consider this complaint based on the knowledge 
available to both parties at the relevant time, rather than looking at the issues with the 
benefit of hindsight. In April 2019, neither BUPA nor Mr T knew that BUPA would go on to 
make such a change to its policies in the future. So BUPA couldnt have let Mr T know about 
a future change at this point. Based on all Ive seen, BUPA did give Mr T enough information 
about the underwritten policy to decide whether or not he wanted to take it up. He chose to 
take a policy which wouldnt cover Mr Js existing conditions. So while Mr T may likely now 
make a different choice, given the unforeseen policy changes, I dont think I can fairly direct 
BUPA to cover Mr J for depression and anxiety-related claims going forward. 
Has BUPA offered fair compensation?
BUPA acknowledges that it didnt deal with Mr Js complaint as well as it shouldve done. It 
accepts that Mr T didnt get call backs when he was told he would and emails werent 
followed up. It also accepts that despite Mr T specifically asking for all contact to be through 
him, BUPA still wrote to Mr J. It considers its offer of £100 fairly reflects the moderate 
distress and inconvenience these failures caused Mr T and Mr J.
Like the investigator though, Im not persuaded that £100 is enough compensation to 
recognise the impact BUPAs errors had on Mr J. I say that because BUPA is aware that Mr 
J suffers from anxiety and depression. Its also aware from a claim that Mr J made around 
the relevant time, that hed been diagnosed with a further condition, which he was 
undergoing treatment for with a consultant psychiatrist. Mr T told us that receiving BUPAs 
correspondence caused Mr J to shake and become very distressed and that its handling of 
the matter negatively impacted on his symptoms of anxiety. I dont doubt that receiving these letters, on top of coping with the symptoms of his existing conditions and suffering from a 
new condition, caused Mr J significant trouble and upset. And it seems that had BUPA 
correctly recorded Mr Ts request, this couldve been easily avoided.
Overall then, I agree with the investigator that on the specific facts of this complaint, given 
Mr Js health and the impact I recognise this matter had on him, £300 is fair compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset BUPA has caused both him and Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
I direct BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Mr T and Mr J £300 total compensation. (It may 
deduct any compensation its already paid from this amount.)  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman