DRN-4452587
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a holiday product bought 
using her credit card.
What happened
In May 2015, Mrs K purchased holiday club membership from a business Ill call 
Business C. It cost £5,598 and it was paid for by Mrs K  in part  using her Lloyds credit 
card1.
The purchase agreement entered into by Mrs K was made between her and Business C. 
However, the credit card payment wasnt made directly to Business C, rather it went to a 
different business Ill call Business F.
Mrs K made three payments using her credit card to Business F as follows:
05/07/2015 - £500
04/08/2015 - £500
03/09/2015 - £4,098
In 2021, using a professional representative (PR), Mrs K made a claim to Lloyds under
section 75 of the CCA. The reasons for the claim are familiar to both sides so I dont intend 
to repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, Mrs K said Business C made 
misrepresentations at the time of sale and that, under section 75 CCA, Lloyds was jointly 
responsible to answer for them.
Lloyds responded to the letter of claim by explaining that its section 75 team had not had the 
opportunity to review a claim as there was no evidence of a claim having been made. It went 
on to say that the relevant documents had been forwarded to its section 75 team and they 
would be in touch in due course.
Unhappy with this response, the complaint was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into matters and issued their findings in November 2023. In 
short, our investigator said there wasnt the right arrangement in place to make such a claim 
because Mrs K hadnt used her credit card to pay Business C directly. 
PR disagreed with our investigators findings. And, as an informal resolution couldnt be 
reached, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 Although the membership was in the names of Mr and Mrs K, as the credit card used was in Mrs Ks
name, only she can make this complaint.
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Section 75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b)
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and
severally liable to the debtor
Section 12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements,
between himself and the supplier.
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier)
other than the creditor.
The upshot of this is that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the lender
(Lloyds) to be liable to the borrower (Mrs K) for the alleged misrepresentations of the 
supplier (Business C). But, on the face of it, there was no such arrangement in place at the 
relevant time. 
The law in this area was clarified by the High Court in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank 
plc [2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner).
The late Mr Steiner (the Estate) paid for a timeshare provided by Club La Costa Vacation 
Club Ltd (CLC) using his NatWest credit card. So, for the purposes of s.11(1)(b) of the 
CCA, NatWest was the creditor, the late Mr Steiner was the debtor and CLC was the 
supplier. But the payment of £14,000 was in fact taken by FNTC.
The Estate initially argued that the right arrangements were in place because there was a 
Deed of Trust between CLC and FNTC under which CLC would receive payment. But the 
High Court was not persuaded by this. On appeal, the Estates claim sought to demonstrate 
that the credit agreement was made under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation 
of future arrangements and extended to CLC under section 12(b) CCA.
But the High Court dismissed the appeal. And in doing so, the Court held that arrangements
could not be stretched so far as to mean that NatWest made its agreement with the late Mr
Steiner under the Deed of Trust (of which it was presumably unaware) as well as under theMastercard network. Therefore, the existence of the Trust Deed didnt help to create a valid 
D-C-S agreement for the purposes of the CCA.
The circumstances of Mrs Ks case are very similar to the circumstances in Steiner. In this
case, Business F took payment for Mrs Ks purchase of Business Cs holiday club 
memberships. So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I think a court would come to a similar 
conclusion and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid section 
75 CCA claim.
I say this because it seems to me to be difficult to argue that Lloyds entered into the credit 
agreement with Mrs K under, or in contemplation of, any arrangements other than the 
relevant card network. And while there may well have been arrangements between Lloyds 
and Business C (the relevant card network) and arrangements between Business F and 
Business C (the Deed of Trust), as the High Court recognised in Steiner in the natural and 
ordinary meaning of the words used in section 12(b) of the Act does not extend to saying 
that NatWest made its agreement with Mr Steiner under both the Mastercard network and 
the Trust Deed (or under both the Mastercard network and any other arrangements which 
parties to the Mastercard network might have with third parties).
Under section 187 of the CCA, there are also ways in which there might exist a D-C-S
agreement even if a supplier isnt paid directly using a credit card. For example, if Business 
F and Business C were associates as defined by section 184 of the CCA, there might have 
been the right arrangement in place at the right time. I havent seen anything to persuade me 
thats likely to have been the case here.
PR has said that the court in Steiner was unaware of the nature of any contractual 
relationship between CLC and FNTC and, therefore, for the purposes of this complaint, it 
would be reasonable for our service to assume that the relationship was identical to the 
relationship outlined in another decision made by our service. In other words, PR says it 
seems reasonable to assume Business F was acting solely as a payment processor for 
Business C and, therefore, there was a D-C-S agreement in place at the right time.
However, I do not agree with this assumption. I say this because traditional payment 
processors act as a way for a supplier to receive its money. In Steiner the court set out 
various clauses within the Deed of Trust that indicate FNTC provided more than a financial 
transaction service. For example, Clause 4.1 of the Deed of Trust provided as follows: 
The Trustee shall hold the Property upon trust to secure for the Members the rights of 
occupation in the Scheme Accommodation under and in accordance with and subject to the 
provisions of the Articles.  
Further, in Steiner the judge said:
There was no evidence before me as to the general practice as to the structure of time 
share arrangements, but it was not disputed that the use of a trustee in such an 
arrangement, while not required by law, is common in the United Kingdom and has as its 
purpose, as one would expect, the protection of consumers.
I recognise PR has cited another decision made by our service, but it is important to be clear 
that each case turns on its own facts. And, in this case, I havent been provided with 
anything to suggest the services provided by Business F were any different to those set out 
in Steiner. With that being the case, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Business F 
were acting solely as a payment processor. It follows that, for the reasons Ive already 
explained, I do not think the right arrangements were in place to give rise to a valid section 
75 claim.Finally, in response to our investigators findings, PR said the Financial Ombudsman Service 
is dealing with complaints, not legal causes of action. And PR went on to say that our service 
is free to depart from the relevant case law when doing so would result in a fair and 
reasonable answer being reached.
 
Under the rules set out above, I explained that I must take into account the law, but come to 
my own determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair to make Lloyds responsible for 
Business Cs alleged failures when the law didnt impose such a liability.
It follows that I dont think Lloyds needs to answer the claim made.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ross Phillips
Ombudsman