DRN-3613209
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (firstdirect) declined his 
application for a loan.
What happened
Mr L had a current account with firstdirect and on 18 October 2021, applied for a loan of 
£30,000 payable over 60 months. Firstdirect declined the application.
Mr L complained. He said hed been a loyal customer of firstdirect for over 20 years and had 
a perfect credit score with credit reference agencies. He said he maintained an impeccable 
account and the balance on his current account was more than he was asking to borrow.  
Hed had, and repaid, a similar loan in the past. He wondered if he was declined because he 
was a small business owner and was paid in drawings/dividends. He was frustrated because 
firstdirect wouldnt give him a reason why they wouldnt agree to the loan. Because they 
declined his application, he had to borrow money elsewhere at a higher interest rate.
Firstdirect said Mr L hadnt met their credit scoring criteria. This included Mr Ls track record 
with the bank; his income and affordability to repay the loan; and information from credit 
reference agencies. But any further details were commercially sensitive and therefore they 
couldnt provide any more information to Mr L. 
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said it was up to firstdirect whether they 
lent to a customer or not. And firstdirect were within their rights to decline Mr Ls application 
if they wished. She could see that Mr L didnt meet firstdirects credit score. And our service 
cant interfere with a banks commercial judgement when assessing loan requests.
Mr L asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr L feels frustrated here. I can see that hes had an account for a long 
time and maintains it in credit  at least for the year before his loan application. As he said, 
he had a credit balance of over £34,000 in the months prior to his loan application, I can also 
see that he pays into his account from drawings or dividends from his company.
But our investigator is right here. In this case, its for firstdirect to take its own commercial 
decisions about Mr Ls loan application, based on its own lending criteria. And that will take 
information from several sources  as firstdirect has said. Thats for firstdirect to decide  
and we wont interfere with that. So, I cant make firstdirect lend the money to Mr L. Neither 
do firstdirect have to explain the detail of their decision to Mr L.
I can see that Mr L didnt pass firstdirects credit score and was advised of that at the time of 
his loan application. I cant interrogate firstdirects credit score process or see exactly what 
feeds into it. Im afraid thats all I can say and do here.
I know this will leave Mr L feeling frustrated and disappointed, but in the circumstances of his 
complaint, I wont be asking firstdirect to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman