DRN-1850369
 
The complaint
Miss L complains that etika Finance UK Limited (formerly known as PayBreak Limited) 
declined her claim for a refund when the schedule and venue of a course she had booked 
were changed at short notice.
 
What happened
In November 2018 Miss L signed up for a course in IT, financed by PayBreak Limited (as it 
then was). In December, she changed to a digital marketing course instead (with the same 
course provider). This course was in two modules: the first was due to start in February 2019 
and the second in March. But due to the tutor falling ill, the first module had to be delayed by 
one week, which meant that the second module was put back to May. The tuition days were 
also moved to different days of the week, which was inconvenient for Miss L because she 
had to make adjustments to her schedule at work. But the biggest problem for Miss L was 
that, shortly afterwards and with very little notice, the venue also changed. She insists that 
one of the reasons she chose that course provider was because the location was convenient 
for her as it was between her home and her workplace, where she works night shifts. The 
new location was far out of her way. So in April she complained, saying that there had been 
too many last-minute changes, and she couldn't adapt.
PayBreak did not uphold Miss L's complaint, saying that the problem had arisen due to 
circumstances beyond the course provider's control, and that the course was still available 
for her to complete. It also said that the course provider had told it that refunds are not 
available once a student has attended a class. So Miss L brought this complaint to our 
Service. Meanwhile, the course provider ceased trading. In December 2019 PayBreak put 
Miss L in touch with another course provider so she could continue her classes. But the new 
course provider told her it had no contract with PayBreak. In February 2020 PayBreak found 
a third course provider, which agreed to let Miss L take a course for no extra charge. But she 
did not wish to accept that remedy, because she was supposed to have graduated from the 
original digital marketing course in August 2019, and it was now a year since that course had 
been scheduled to begin. She said she wanted to move on with her life. PayBreak 
suggested that Miss L had simply changed her mind about doing the course.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She agreed that there had been a breach of contract 
by the original service provider, and that an adequate remedy had not been provided. She 
recommended that PayBreak cancel the finance agreement and refund all payments made.
PayBreak did not accept that opinion. It said it had been Miss L's choice not to attend the 
course, and the original course provider had been in touch with her regularly about 
alternative arrangements. A suitable course was still available for her to complete. PayBreak 
did not think it should be responsible for what had happened. It asked for an ombudsman's 
decision, and so this case has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 can make a provider 
of credit equally liable with a supplier of services if the supplier is paid with the credit and 
there is a breach of contract by the supplier. Here, PayBreak is the provider of credit, and 
the course provider is the supplier. So if there was a breach of contract by the course 
provider -- and I agree that there was -- then PayBreak is liable for that.
I don't think that the cancellation of the first lecture was a breach of contract. It happened 
because the tutor was ill, and that is something to be expected from time to time as a fact of 
life. It was outside anyone's control, and whether or not the course provider's terms and 
conditions provide for that eventuality, I would not have upheld this complaint just because of 
that. The slight delay in the beginning of the two course modules which resulted could not be 
helped. I don't need to decide whether changing the days of the week was a breach of 
contract, because I have seen an email Miss L sent to the course provider in which she said 
that she was willing to put up with it and to change her arrangements in order to attend on 
the new dates, although she was still displeased about it.
The real issue in this case is the change of venue, which does not appear to have had 
anything to do with the tutor's illness. It would have happened anyway. I think this was a 
breach of contract because there is nothing in the terms and conditions which says that the 
course provider may change the venue and, unlike a tutor's illness, it was not something that 
could reasonably have been foreseen by Miss L when she signed up for the course.
I accept that the location of the original venue was important to Miss L, because her 
explanation is plausible, and it is not contradicted by any evidence I have seen. I accept that 
the original course provider kept in touch with her and offered her alternative dates, but that 
was not the real issue. I think she would have accepted the new dates (reluctantly) if that 
had been the only problem. The course provider offered her another venue, which I think 
was a genuine and good faith attempt to resolve the problem, but that other location, while 
closer to the original, was still a significant distance out of her way. So on balance, I think it 
is more likely than not that Miss L wished to withdraw from the course for this reason and not 
just because she had buyer's remorse. I have taken into account the fact that she switched 
courses from IT to digital marketing, but I don't think that demonstrates that she had no real 
interest in the latter subject, or that she made that choice in bad faith. She couldn't have 
known at the time that any of the problems with the digital marketing course were going to 
happen.
I accept that the course provider did its best to remedy the problem, but I also accept that its 
proposed remedies were not adequate to meet Miss L's needs or her reasonable 
expectations. It was certainly her choice not to attend the course at either of the new venues, 
but given how important the location was to her, that is not surprising. Indeed, if she had 
continued to attend the course, I would probably have decided that she had forgiven the 
breach of contract and had accepted the new arrangement. Instead, she treated the change 
of venue as a repudiatory breach of contract. I think that was reasonable.
 
Putting things rightHaving decided that, it follows that the proper and fair remedy is to cancel the finance 
agreement and to refund all payments, including the deposit because the original course 
provider would have been liable for that.
In coming to that decision, I have taken into account the fact that a new course provider has 
been found with an equivalent course. That might well have been a suitable alternative, but 
balanced against that is the fact that the course was due to start a full year after the original 
course, when Miss L originally expected to graduate in August 2019. So although I think 
PayBreak has tried to find a remedy, I can understand why Miss L doesn't want it.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order etika Finance UK Limited to:
Cancel the finance agreement,
Refund all payments made under the agreement, and
Refund the £400 deposit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman