DRN-2303796
The complaint
Mr M has complained about One insurance Limiteds (OIL) handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to OIL includes its agents.
What happened
A named driver on Mr Ms policy was driving when his car was damaged by another driver 
(the third party). Mr M asked OIL to deal with the claim. He was very unhappy with OILs 
service and complained. OIL agreed there were unacceptable delays and offered Mr M £75 
compensation for the impact of that.
Mr M didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said OIL hadn't handled the matter fairly and recommended it 
pay Mr M a further £150 compensation on top of the £75 it had already offered. OIL said it 
was prepared to offer Mr M a further £75 (so £150 in total).
As OIL didn't agree with our investigators recommended compensation the complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
 
Despite requests OIL didn't ever send us its full business file. But its clear from Mr Ms 
evidence that OIL has been slow to progress matters. And as a result Mr M seems to have 
suffered a lot of frustration and has often chased both OIL and the third partys insurer 
himself. Thats not something he should have had to do.
OIL acknowledged at a relatively early stage that it hadnt got everything right and offered 
Mr M £75 compensation to recognise that. But it appears that this didn't spur OIL into action 
and the delays continued. I don't think that was fair. To address the further impact on Mr M I 
think OIL should pay him another £150 compensation, on top of the £75 it had offered 
previously. 
For completeness Ill add that Mr M had complained that he had to pay his excess even 
though the accident wasn't his fault. But its usual for the excess to be payable on any claim 
regardless of fault. Some insurers may decide not to collect an excess when the claim is 
clearly not their policyholders fault and liability isn't disputed. But that's not something an 
insurer has to do and, generally, whether they charge an excess or not is at their discretion. 
But I do understand that OIL hadn't made this clear to Mr M when he initially claimed, and 
this is something Ive factored in when awarding the compensation I've referred to above.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Company 
limited to pay Mr M a further £150 compensation. It should pay the compensation within 28 
days of us telling it that Mr M has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also add interest to that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a rate of 8% a year simple1.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If OIL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.