DRN-3542908
The complaint
Mr T says that, contrary to his instruction that the transfer value paid in respect of his final 
salary pension should be held in cash, True Potential Investments LLP (TPI) invested it, 
which caused Mr T a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr T was advised in connection with the transfer of his final salary pension benefits by 
another business, True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM). Following TPWMs 
advice that Mr T transfer, TPI (the pension provider) was instructed by TPWM in January 
2020 to invest the transferred funds in TPIs Cautious Plus portfolio. 
On 7:20pm on 10 March 2020 Mr T sent a secure message to TPWM saying: 
I understand that the money for my pension has arrived with you ready to be invested. In 
view of the volatility around the market at present I would like to immediately withdraw my 
25% tax free cash amount. Please confirm this will happen immediately the money is 
invested to ensure there are no further losses.
My understanding is that TPWM asked TPI about the status of the transfer on 11 March 
2020. TPI said the funds hadnt been received but were expected in the next three to five 
working days. When TPWM asked TPI if it could accept an instruction to hold 25% in cash, 
TPI said it needed to check if this was possible as it was different from the advice given to 
Mr T in January 2020. 
TPI confirmed, on 12 March 2020, to TPWM that Mr T would need to request the whole fund 
was held in cash. I understand TPWM called Mr T on 12 March 2020 to explain that. I think 
Mr T told TPWM that he didnt want any of the funds invested. I understand he was 
concerned about the effect of the falling financial markets on the value of his pension fund. 
TPWM contacted TPI the same day (at 15.59) to ask TPI to hold the funds once they arrived. 
TPI responded with some queries (at 17.16). TPWM didnt get back to TPI as TPWMs 
normal office hours were until 17.30.
On 13 March 2020 TPI found out that Mr Ts funds had been received and were in the 
process of being invested. According to TPI, the funds were received on 11 March 2020 and 
the automatic investment process started on 12 March 2020. The first trade placed was for 
an investment of £95,127.16.          
TPI emailed TPWM saying the trades couldnt be stopped and that Mr T needed to be 
informed. TPI says it fast tracked Mr T to the top of the drawdown call waiting list to 
complete a (non advised) drawdown appointment the same day. During that call Mr T said 
he wanted to take his 25% tax free cash. TPIs call handler took Mr T through its drawdown 
questionnaire. TPI said the paperwork would be emailed to Mr T which hed need to 
complete and return. After being told that it would take 10 to 15 days for the payment to be 
made, Mr T asked where his money was  was it invested or held in cash. TPI said it was 
invested and subject to market fluctuations. Mr T said hed made it clear the previous day (I 
think here Mr T was referring to his call with TPWMs adviser) that wasnt what he wanted 
and hed been assured the money would just sit in cash. 
TPIs call handler then said that only £95,000 had been invested with the rest in cash and no 
pending trades. Mr T said he didnt understand why that had happened and it wasnt what he 
wanted. The call handler said shed get someone to call Mr T back. Ive seen that she 
emailed her manager saying that Mr T had been told his money would remain in cash and 
he was now worried that it was at risk. 
I understand that Mr T received a call back and was advised to email TPI with an instruction 
to disinvest the £95,000. Mr T also spoke to one of TPWMs advisers on 14 or 15 March 
2020. The adviser explained the risks of moving the pension fund to cash but Mr T still 
wanted to do that. He sent an email to TPI on 15 March 2020 (a Sunday) requesting the 
disinvestment of the £95,000. TPI had also sent the paperwork to Mr T to complete for the 
withdrawal of his tax free cash. Mr T returned the signed documents which TPI received on 
16 March 2020 along with Mr Ts email about disinvesting the £95,000.  
As part of its usual process to verify Mr Ts written instruction (to disinvest the £95,000), TPI 
contacted Mr T by telephone. After a failed attempt on 16 March 2020, TPI spoke with Mr T 
on 19 March 2020. During this call, Mr T made clear to TPI that he wished to disinvest his 
entire pension and hold it in cash.
On 20 March 2020 the paperwork Mr T had returned for the payment of the tax free cash 
was processed and the sell trades to disinvest the tax free cash entitlement were placed. On 
24 March 2020 the sell trades to disinvest the remainder of the portfolio were placed. The 
transfer value TPI received was £864,796.49. When Mr Ts portfolio was fully encashed on 
24 March 2020 the value was £830,472.16, some £34,324.33 less.
Mr T complained to both TPWM and TPI. In response to Mr Ts complaint TPI said:
It had acted in accordance with TPWMs instruction by investing the total transfer 
value in the Cautious Plus portfolio as soon as the transfer funds were received. 
Unfortunately TPI received Mr Ts request to change his instructions too late as the 
funds had already been received and investment had started. 
Mr T gave two separate instructions to TPI in very close proximity: a drawdown 
request to access his tax free cash on 13 March 2020 and a disinvestment instruction 
to liquidate approximately £95,000 on 15 March 2020. The transactions were carried 
out by separate teams from different departments of TPI. It was unreasonable for 
either to know about the separate instructions being carried out at the same time. 
Mr Ts drawdown paperwork was received by TPI on 16 March 2020 and processed 
on 20 March 2020 and included placing the disinvestment trades to release Mr Ts 
full tax free cash entitlement. 
Mr Ts instruction to disinvest £95,000 of his pension was verified on 19 March after 
the initial call on 16 March was unsuccessful. During the call it became clear that the 
original instruction had changed to selling all of the investments and holding in cash. 
When TPI tried to sell the remaining assets the following day, it became clear that 
trades for the tax free cash had already been placed and were pending settlement. 
The second tranche of trades could only go to market once the initial trades had 
settled. The remainder sell trades for the portfolio were initiated on 24 March 2020. 
Both tasks, separately, had been carried out in accordance with TPIs internal 
procedures including the expected timescales. The timing of Mr Ts instructions had 
unfortunately led to a reduction in the value of his portfolio linked to the movement of 
the financial markets but TPI cant be held liable for losses due to market 
movements. But TPI upheld his complaint in part and offered a payment of £500. TPI told us that 
was in recognition of the fact that Mr T had been told incorrectly that only £95,000 of 
his fund had been invested when in fact the remaining funds had been sent to market 
and were in the process of settling. And TPI felt the customer service Mr T had 
received throughout the process had been below standard. 
Mr T responded saying TPWM had said TPI was responsible for his losses. And a member 
of TPIs staff had told Mr Ts IFA that TPI had dropped the ball on this one. Mr T referred to 
the secure message hed sent on 10 March 2020. His instruction to disinvest the £95k also 
clearly said the rest of his money shouldnt be invested. Mr T said he was making a subject 
access request (SAR) to include transcripts of calls hed made to and received from TPWM 
and TPI. He asked for the advice charges to be suspended. 
TPI replied saying Mr Ts message on 10 March 2020 didnt instruct that all the funds remain 
in cash but that he wanted to take his tax free cash. A transaction history was provided. 
When TPI was told to change the investment instruction to 100% cash, the investments had 
unfortunately already been made. The first trade was for £95,127.16. During the call on 13 
March 2020 Mr T was told only that investment had been made. The call handler wouldnt 
have known the remainder of the trades had also been placed and would be visible on the 
account the following day. TPI acted promptly to disinvest the £95,127.16 and, once it 
became clear that the entire portfolio needed to be held in cash, made similar efforts to meet 
Mr Ts requirements. The position was complicated by two separate instructions given so 
close together. TPI confirmed the ongoing adviser charge had been suspended with 
immediate effect and the SAR forwarded to the relevant department. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He raised a number of enquiries with TPI 
before he issued his view on 24 November 2021. In summary he said:
TPI had provided the terms of its agreement with Mr T along with the protocols for 
processing investment instructions. TPI require investment instructions to be 
submitted in writing before being verified with the customer over the telephone. As 
this is outlined in their terms and conditions and is for the security of their customers, 
it is reasonable for TPI to process and verify requests in line with these terms.
Initially, when responding to TPWMs query about the status of the transfer on 11 
March 2020, TPI was unaware the money had arrived and was being invested. TPI 
informed TPWM as soon as TPI became aware the trades had been gone ahead.
Mr Ts initial instruction to TPI, which came via TPWM on 19 January 2020, was that 
the transferred amount should be invested. TPI only became aware Mr T wanted to 
change his instruction on 11 March 2020. There wasnt enough time to verify and 
action the instruction before the money was invested. It isnt reasonable to expect 
TPI to have prevented Mr Ts pension fund being invested at such short notice.
When Mr T spoke with TPI on 13 March 2020, he was given incorrect information. 
TPI assured Mr T only £95,000 was invested and the remainder was held in cash. 
TPI told Mr T thered be no further trades. But the remainder of the fund was in the 
process of being invested. During this call Mr T shouldve been given correct 
information about his investments. TPI had said the call handler cant have been 
expected to know the rest of the funds had been invested, as the trades hadnt 
settled. However, TPI were aware the trades had been placed as they told TPWM 
about this on 13 March 2020. Having listened to the call, Mr T clearly wanted to find 
out about his investments.
Had Mr T been told all his pension money was invested on 13 March 2020, hed have 
instructed TPI to disinvest everything and hold it in cash, rather than requesting a 
drawdown. His priority was clearly to protect his pension from market volatility and encashing his entire pension wouldve been the most logical way to do this. He then 
couldve withdrawn the tax free cash and invested the rest later. 
Instead, the drawdown paperwork he completed meant the disinvestment of his 
pension was delayed while the trades for the drawdown settled. This meant the 
disinvestment trades couldnt be placed immediately after the verification phone call 
of 19 March 2020 and were placed on 24 March 2020 instead. 
As a result of TPIs errors, Mr T was invested in the market for longer than he 
shouldve been. Had TPI given Mr T correct information during the drawdown call, 
the trades to cash out his entire pot couldve been placed on 19 March 2020. 
The investigator recommended that TPI calculate the value of Mr Ts pension pot had 
his sell down trades been placed on 19 March 2020 and compare that with the value 
when his trades did settle after 24 March 2020. If there was a loss, TPI should 
calculate the current value of Mr Ts pension had he invested the higher amount in 
subsequent investments. TPI should then compare this nominal value with Mr Ts 
current pension value and pay him any loss. That was in addition to the £500 had 
already offered for the inconvenience caused to Mr T. 
TPI undertook a price comparison showing that, had the trades been actioned at the earliest 
opportunity on 20 March 2020 (following the call to verify Mr Ts email instruction at 15.30 on 
19 March 2020 after the trading cut off for that day), Mr Ts portfolio wouldve been worth 
£10,996.19 less than if the trades had been placed on 24 March 2020 (the actual date). 
In response to the investigators view Mr T said TPI had told him he only needed to disinvest 
the £95,000 and the rest wouldnt be invested. It was only on 23 March 2020 that he realised 
the whole amount had been invested. On 12 March 2020 both TPWM and TPI understood 
his wishes. Although TPI had questions following the instruction from TPWM, TPI shouldve 
protected his money and put the investment on hold until they got the answers to the queries 
theyd raised with TPWM (at 17.16 on 12 March 2020). 
TPI then asserted Mr T only had to request that £95,000 was disinvested. TPI shouldve 
known the investment of the rest of his fund was already in progress. Hed only requested 
that £95,000 be disinvested because he understood that was all that needed to be 
disinvested. It had been completely clear from 10 March 2020 that he wanted the entire 
portfolio disinvested. Hed have said the whole amount if hed been told what was really 
happening. Mr T also said the prices were different to those shown on the portal. 
There were further exchanges with the investigator, including about how long it shouldve 
taken TPI to verify Mr Ts instructions and the values used. As Mr T remained unhappy the 
complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the views expressed by the investigator and the reasons he 
gave as to why he didnt think TPI needed to do any more.  
Ive read and considered everything, But Im only going to comment on what I see as key. 
Ive looked at Mr Ts initial instruction (the secure message he sent on 10 March 2020); what 
information TPI provided about where his fund was; the drawdown call on 13 March 2020; 
whether Mr T has suffered any loss because of anything TPI did wrong; and if the £500 
offered for distress and inconvenience is enough. Id also reiterate that TPWM and TPI are separate businesses. TPWM is the adviser and TPI 
is the pension provider. But they work closely together. Mr T was dealing with both TPWM 
and TPI and messaging/speaking to both. TPWM and TPI were also liaising with each other. 
Im only looking at TPIs part in the matter. TPWMs view may have been that TPI was 
responsible for Mr Ts losses but I have to come to my own conclusions about that.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ts initial instruction (given to TPI via TPWM) was that the full 
amount of the transfer value received by TPI would be invested. Mr T initially wasnt going to 
take any tax free cash. Had that been agreed at the outset then TPI wouldve ensured that 
the 25% of the transferred fund to be withdrawn as tax free cash wouldnt have been 
invested. 
On 10 March 2020 Mr T told TPWM that he wanted to do something different  he wanted to 
take his tax free cash. Because Mr Ts message was sent outside normal business hours, 
TPWM wouldnt see it or be able to act on it until the following day. 
The message was about taking tax free cash. Mr T didnt, at that stage, say he didnt want 
the remainder of the fund invested. The implication was that he wanted to take his tax free 
cash first, with the remainder of the fund then being invested. Thats what TPWM understood 
the position to be, hence it contacted TPI to see if 25% of the transferred funds could be held 
in cash. But TPI said Mr T would need to ask that none of the funds should be invested. And, 
after his tax free cash had been paid, he could then ask for the remaining funds to be 
invested. 
I dont think it was until 12 March 2020 that Mr T told TPWM that he didnt want his 
remaining fund to be invested. I say that was the date because Mr T said in response to the 
investigators view that on 12 March 2020 both TPWM and TPI understood his wishes. And, 
during the drawdown call with TPI on 13 March 2020, Mr T refers to his telephone call the 
day before and during which hed made it clear that he wanted his fund to remain in cash. 
Mr T says that following the instruction from TPWM on 12 March 2020 TPI shouldve 
protected his money and put the investments on hold until TPI got the answers to the 
queries raised with TPWM (at 17.16 on 12 March 2020). But TPI had in fact received the 
funds on 11 March 2020. I understand the money went initially into TPIs Pension Bank 
account and then the following day into the platform bank account. So by 12 March 2020 the 
investments were in the process of being made. I think Mr Ts revised instruction - that he 
wanted to hold the remainder of his fund after payment of the tax free cash - came too late. 
And it would still have been too late if TPI knew on 11 March 2020 that Mr T no longer 
wanted his fund to be invested.  
There was clearly confusion on TPIs part about exactly where Mr Ts money was. TPI did 
provide incorrect information to Mr T/TPWM about not having received the money when in 
fact TPI had. But that didnt change what had actually happened. I dont think it was TPIs 
fault that the investments went ahead  that was in line with the instruction TPI had been 
given. Mr Ts revised instruction came too late for the investment process to be halted. 
Ive next considered what happened in respect of Mr Ts drawdown call with TPI on 13 
March 2020. I note all TPI has said about the call handler only being able to see the first 
trade but the fact is that by then TPI (as an entity) knew the funds had been received and the 
investment process had started. So what the call handler told Mr T about no other trades 
being pending was wrong. In any event Mr T was unhappy that some £95,000 had been 
invested. He made it clear he didnt want any of his fund to be invested, that hed been told it 
would be held in cash and thats what he wanted. Against that background I dont agree with TPI that it was only during the verification call (in 
respect of Mr Ts instruction to disinvest the £95,000) that it became clear the original 
instruction had changed - to selling all of the investments and holding in cash. I think TPI 
knew from the call on 13 March 2020 that was what Mr T wanted to do. Thats confirmed by 
the internal email the call handler sent after the call  it records that Mr T had been told his 
money would remain in cash and he was now worried that it was at risk. 
TPI shouldve acted following the call on 13 March 2020 by confirming to Mr T what the 
correct position was  that his whole fund had been invested  and telling him he needed to 
request by email that his entire fund (and not just the £95,000) should be disinvested. 
I think the timing of events in that scenario wouldve been similar to as actually happened.  
Instead of Mr T sending an email on 15 March 2020 about disinvesting £95,000, hed have 
said in that email that his entire fund should be disinvested. 13 March 2020 was a Friday. I 
think hed have still spoken to TPWMs adviser over the weekend and Mr Ts email would 
still have been sent on 15 March 2020. That was a Sunday so it wouldve been seen by TPI 
on 16 March 2020.
TPI tried, unsuccessfully, to contact Mr T on 16 March 2020  hes explained he was away 
from home that day  and the verification telephone call didnt take place until 19 March 
2020. Mr T has said TPI shouldve made more effort to contact him. But I think TPI left him a 
message. And Mr T couldve chased things up himself with TPI and when he knew from the 
telephone call on 13 March 2020 to expect a telephone call to confirm his instructions  
whether that was to disinvest £95,000 or the entire portfolio. So, although the telephone call 
couldve taken place a day or so earlier, I dont see any real reason to assume the timing 
wouldve been any different from how things actually happened. So the verification 
telephone call wouldve taken place on 19 March 2020 and the disinvestment of Mr Ts entire 
portfolio wouldve been the next day. 
TPI has shown that using that earlier (20 March 2020) date doesnt help Mr T as his portfolio 
wouldve been worth some £10,996.19 less than if the later and actual date (24 March 2020) 
is used. That still represents a loss in comparison with the amount transferred. The transfer 
value TPI received was £864,796.49 but when Mr Ts portfolio was fully encashed on 24 
March 2020 the value was £830,472.16, some £34,324.33 less. But I can only ask TPI to 
make up any loss if Im satisfied the loss resulted from something TPI did (or didnt do). 
If TPI hadnt invested Mr Ts fund but had instead retained it in cash then any losses 
couldve been avoided. But, as Ive explained, Mr Ts change of instructions about not 
investing his fund came too late for the initial investment of the fund to be avoided. It seems 
that the timing hasnt worked in Mr Ts favour. Falling investment prices between the period 
when his fund was received, invested and disinvested has meant hes suffered a loss. 
Although I can understand why he thought hed be better off by holding his fund in cash, by 
disinvesting hes crystallised a loss which he might have made up had he remained 
invested. 
Mr T has queried the figures used by TPI in calculating if hed have been better off if the 
earlier disinvestment date was used. I can see that some confusion may have resulted but, 
as the investigator has explained, the portal doesnt show live or real time values so the 
actual figures may be different, particularly as stock prices can change rapidly, especially 
during a period of market volatility. I havent seen anything to suggest the figures TPI used 
were incorrect. 
Ive seen that Mr T has mentioned obtaining further evidence from another member of TPIs 
staff. Mr T also suggested that the investigator should contact Mr Ts IFA. As far as the 
former is concerned, TPI has provided us with information about what happened and has responded to the investigators further enquiries. And it was explained that it was up to Mr T 
if he wanted to provide further evidence from his IFA. I think Ive seen sufficient information 
to fairly decide Mr Ts complaint. 
Lastly Ive considered the payment of £500 TPI offered for any distress and inconvenience 
Mr T has suffered. TPI gave incorrect information  that Mr Ts fund hadnt been received 
when in fact it had and that the investment process hadnt started when again it had. And 
further incorrect information was given during the drawdown call on 13 March 2020.  
Providing incorrect information may cause confusion and inconvenience. And 
disappointment  I can see that Mr T wouldve been unhappy when he discovered on 23 
March 2020 that his entire pension fund had in fact been invested (and then disinvested). 
But I think the amount thats been offered is in line with what wed award in a situation such 
as this. I note what Mr T says about the timescales for responding to his SAR being 
breached. I havent looked into that but even if that was the case I dont think Id say that the 
amount offered should be increased. 
Putting things right
In summary I agree with the investigator and with the reasons he gave that the offer of £500 
is fair and reasonable and TPI doesnt need to do any more. 
My final decision
True Potential Investments LLP has already made an offer of £500 to Mr T to settle his 
complaint. I think that offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that True Potential Investments LLP should pay £500 to Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman