DRN-3929492
The complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd trading as Blue Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance in September 2021. 
Under the agreement he was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £105 with 
the total amount payable being around £6,272. 
Mr G says the car initially failed its MOT but he was told the issues had been fixed and the 
car was delivered on 22 September. However, within a week of ownership there were issues 
including the engine light coming on. The car was collected by the dealer and it appeared 
that the issues were resolved. In October 2021, a third party looked at the car and found the 
tyres were very old and that one of the bolts for the wheel nuts had been sheered off. Mr G 
raised this with the dealer who said the car was fine and fit for purpose. 
On 29 March 2022, Mr G says the car started to release white smoke and broke down. The 
car couldnt be started and was towed back to Mr Gs home. Mr G contacted Blue Motor 
Finance and it was suggested he contact a third-party garage to confirm the issues with the 
car and when these arose. Mr G did this and found the car had been sold with the wrong 
engine. Mr G says that the broker and Blue Motor Finance suggested he could have 
changed the engine within the six months he had the car but Mr G said this hadnt 
happened. Mr G says the car is unusable.
Blue Motor Finance issued its final response letter dated 1 June 2022. It said it had 
contacted the garage that assessed Mr Gs car and it couldnt confirm that the issues were 
present/ developing at the point of supply. It said the garage said further investigation would 
be needed to confirm the faults present with the vehicle. As the issues were raised more 
than six months after Mr G had entered his hire purchase agreement and it hadnt been 
confirmed the issues were present at the point of supply, Blue Motor Finance didnt uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G didnt accept Blue Motor Finances response and referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. They said that the evidence showed the engine had 
been replaced and that there was nothing to show that Mr G had undertaken this work. They 
thought the evidence provided showed that the replaced engine had faults namely the 
additional temperature sensor and radiator fan not being connected. They noted the 
comments about the likely failure of the head gasket and the expected lifespan of this part. 
Our investigator thought the evidence suggested the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
specifically that it wasnt sufficiently durable. Because of this they upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Mr Gs agreement be ended, the car collected, and Mr G be refunded all 
payments made from when the car broke down along with additional associated costs. They 
also recommended that Mr G be paid a further £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the issues with the car had caused him.
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that it wasnt aware of 
any early issues Mr G experienced with the car or the tyres and that first contact was made 
on 31 March 2022. Blue Motor Finance said that at that time, Mr G said he would get a 
diagnostics report and speak with the dealer and then he registered his complaint on 20 
April. It said that Mr G had been able to drive around 7,000 or 8,000 miles before the engine 
failure and that our investigators comments about the head gasket failure werent confirmed 
in the report from the garage. Blue Motor Finance said that Mr G had been told he would 
need to provide a further report to show the faults were present from the point of supply as 
the issue had arisen more than six months after he had entered into the agreement, but this 
was never received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence provided and the wider circumstances.
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Blue Motor Finance can be held liable if the car 
supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and includes assessing whether the 
car was sufficiently durable.
Mr G acquired a used car. At the time of acquisition, the car was around eight years old and 
had been driven around 81,000 miles. Given the cars age and mileage it is reasonable to 
expect it to have suffered some wear and tear. It is also possible with used cars that issues, 
even major issues, can arise within a few months of acquisition even if they werent present 
or developing at the point of supply.
In this case, Mr G identified issues shortly after acquisition, but these were resolved. He had 
the tyres checked and found some of these were very old. This was raised with the dealer 
but he was told the car was fine and fit for purpose. The main issue arose on 29 March 2022 
when white smoke came out of the car, and it broke down. Given the car broke down and 
wasnt then driveable it is clear there are faults with the vehicle. However, in order for Blue 
Motor Finance to be held liable for these, I would need to be satisfied that the issues that 
caused the car to fail were due to faults that were present or developing at the point of 
supply or that, for other reasons, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that point.
When Mr G acquired the car it had been driven around 81,000 miles. When it broke down 
the mileage was recorded as 89,274. Therefore, Mr G was able to drive the car for just over 
six months and around 9,000 miles before it broke down. Blue Motor Finance has said that 
because Mr G had the car for more than six months the onus was on him to provide 
evidence that the cars failure was due to faults present or developing at the point of supply. 
This comment is in line with the Consumer Rights Act. 
After Mr G contacted Blue Motor Finance about his car in March 2022, he had the car 
inspected. He provided the report to Blue Motor Finance. This report says that it appears the 
engine has been replaced with a later version but the plug is not connected and there is no 
evidence of a wiring loom. The report further states that the plug on the radiator fan housing 
hasnt been connected and while it couldnt be confirmed if the cooling fan is working 
correctly or it this had been the main cause of the issues the mechanic noted that it can take 
time for a cooling fan issue to be noted especially over the winter months as a vehicle can maintain its running temperature by cold air passing through the radiator. The report says 
the identified issues suggests cylinder head gasket failure but will need a partial engine strip 
down to confirm.
Blue Motor Finance says it contacted the garage about the report and that it couldnt confirm 
the issues were present / developing at the point of supply. I have taken this comment into 
account but as the mechanic says they believe the engine to have been replaced and Mr G 
has confirmed he didnt undertake this work (which I accept) and the issues are suggested 
as having arisen from issues with certain parts not being correctly connected, I find it more 
likely than not that the engine replacement took place before Mr G acquired the car and that 
issues arising from this caused the subsequent issue with Mr Gs car.
I note that Mr G has been able to drive around 9,000 miles in the car and this could in certain 
circumstances make it hard to say an issue was developing at the point of supply. But noting 
the comments in the report about the cooling fan and that this may not be needed in the 
winter months and so could take longer to be identified and further noting the issues seem 
more likely than not to have arisen from the parts not being connected which would have 
happened at the engine replacement, I find on balance, it more likely than not that the issues 
with Mr Gs car were due to faults present at the point of supply. Because of this  and 
further noting the issues Mr G identified shortly after acquisition  I find it more likely than not 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply.
As I am accepting the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I find it fair that Mr G is allowed to 
exit his agreement with nothing further owing and that any payments he has made since the 
car broke down on 29 March are refunded due to the car not being usable from that date. I 
also think it reasonable that he is refunded the costs he incurred in repairs and recovery.
This issue has caused Mr G distress and inconvenience as he has been left with a car that 
he has been paying for but unable to use. He has also had to try to resolve the issues with 
the various parties involved including failed attempts to contact the dealer which it has been 
explained is no longer trading. Given this, I find our investigators recommendation of 
compensation of £250 reasonable.  
Putting things right
As I do not find the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, Blue Motor Finance 
should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr G;
refund Mr G all repayments made for the period from 29 March 2022 to the date of 
settlement as the customer reasonably stopped using the car at this point;
refund Mr G the amounts he paid for recovery and investigation of the issues with the 
car (an invoice for £186 dated 21 April 2022 for the callout and investigation and a 
statement showing payment of £57.88 dated 30 March 2022 for the towing of the car 
have been provided).
refund Mr G insurance payments for the car from May 2022 until August 2022 (Mr G 
has explained he needed to source a second car and was paying insurance on both 
cars from the point of leasing the second car until the car subject to this decision was 
SORN  evidence to be provided). pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £250 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods;
remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the 
agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd trading as Blue 
Motor Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman