DRN-1534950
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that his sale of shares was delayed causing him to suffer a financial loss  
he also says that there was insufficient information on the website which led to this loss. 
What happened
Mr M held 2 lines of stock with Computershare Investor Services plc (Computershare) in a 
Share Plan Account (SPA). There were two lines of stock allotted to Mr M from his employer 
- 1000 shares in Vested Securities GBP and 1000 shares in Vested Securities EUR.
Mr M placed 2 sale instructions through Computershare on 1 May 2019. A sale of 1000 
Vested Securities GBP was executed on the same day however the sale of Vested 
Securities EUR was not executed until the next day - 2 May 2019. Mr M contacted 
Computershare on 2 May to ask why one of his sales had been delayed. The initial response 
from them said that the share price quoted was delayed by 10-20 minutes and that the 
estimated quote may not represent the final figure. Mr M said that the sale has been delayed 
by 24 hours and as a result, he had suffered a financial loss that he calculated to be 
£510.00.
Further communication between Mr M and Computershare took place and they stated that 
as the Amsterdam Stock Exchange had been closed due to a public holiday, the sale was 
executed on the next available day which was the 2 May. Mr M complained that there was 
nothing on the website to indicate that the Amsterdam Stock Exchange was closed and that 
he believed that his instruction had been accepted and would be processed in the normal 
way within a few minutes.
Computershare issued a response stating that they are unable to inform clients when they 
can trade as this would be seen as providing financial advice. They further said that the 
terms and conditions for the service stated that if an instruction was received when the 
market was closed it would be processed the next available day. They rejected this part of 
Mr Ms complaint. 
They did acknowledge that some of their responses when dealing with Mr Ms complaint 
were insufficient or incorrect and as a result of this, were upholding part of his complaint and 
offered £50.00 as an ex-gratia payment. Mr M did not accept this and referred his complaint 
to the service. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and decided that the business had acted in 
a fair manner. He agreed with Computershares findings and did not uphold the complaint. In 
summary, the investigators reasons were:
Computershare operate an execution only service which means that they act only on 
instructions and do not provide any advice or information as to when shares should 
be soldMr M was provided with information from Computershare about which exchanges his 
shares were traded
It was Mr Ms responsibility to research the trades before requesting to sell and 
Computershare did not need to provide any information regarding the opening hours 
of the exchanges that shares were traded
The exchange was closed on the day that Mr M placed his instruction. In accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the service, they executed the transaction on the 
next available day.
Unhappy with the investigators response, Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint as he thought that insufficient information had been provided to him about the 
exchange being closed and he thought the message saying there was a 10 -15 minute delay 
on pricing was misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions 
for much the same reasons. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I wont be upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr Ms 
strength of feeling in this complaint and I have the following comments:
Computershare previously provided Mr M with correspondence (The Executive Share 
Option Scheme Booklet) which states that the shares in Vested Securities EUR are 
traded on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange and the Vested Securities GBP shares 
are traded on the London Stock Exchange. I have reviewed the content of the 
booklet and think that it is clear that the two classes of shares that Mr M held were 
traded on different exchanges. 
Computershare is an online execution only stockbroker which means that it does not 
give advice to clients and it doesnt assess the suitability of a transaction for the 
client. I think that Mr M had been provided with sufficient information to know how 
and where his shares were traded. In placing his sale instruction Mr M should have 
researched the available information in order to make an informed decision on what 
time and date was best for him to place the sale.
The terms and conditions for the service (Section 10.2 of the Share Plan Account) 
provide for this exact scenario where an instruction has been received after a stock 
exchanges trading hours have ended: 
Where we receive your instruction after Stock Exchange Trading Hours have ended, we 
shall treat that instruction as having arrived at the opening of the Stock Exchange Trading 
Hours on the next Stock Exchange Trading Day 
Having reviewed when Mr Ms sale instruction was carried out, I note that it was traded at 
08.02.44 on 2 May 2019, which is within the first 3 minutes of trading. This seems to be fair 
and reasonable and in line with how Computershare says it operates its service.
Mr M has said the online message that he received, after he input his sale 
instruction, that prices may be delayed by 10-15 minutes, was misleading. I have 
sympathy with Mr M here as this does look as though it was a default message and 
not tailored to Mr Ms specific trade instruction which would have been delayed until 
the next trading day. However, I am still of the opinion that Mr M should have been 
aware where his shares were traded and if that particular exchange was open for 
tradingComputershare has said that how it handled some parts of Mr Ms complaint was not up to 
its normal standard and has offered Mr M £50 compensation. I have reviewed the letters to 
Mr M on the 13 May and 5 June and these contain incorrect information but I think that the 
compensation offered to Mr M is a fair and reasonable amount. 
I say this because, while it must have been frustrating to receive incorrect information, the 
information was corrected fairly quickly and only caused very modest inconvenience in the 
form of additional emails and a little time
In summary, I do not think that Computershare did anything wrong when it handled Mr Ms 
sale instruction. Computershare did not delay the sale and acted in accordance with the 
terms of the service, executing the sale within three minutes of the exchange opening.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. Mr M should decide whether 
or not to accept or reject the offer of £50 from Computershare.
Under the rules of the service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 July 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Brian Gray
Ombudsman