DRN-3136173
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bartholomew Financial Limited gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension plan (PPP).   
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of 
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as 
a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by in 
December 2017. 
Mr W was introduced to Bartholomew Financial Limited by a separate regulated business in 
early September 2017. Bartholomew Financial Limited issued a suitability report to Mr W on 
27 October 2017. 
Mr Ws circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was 36 years old, single and had two children, both of whom were financially 
dependent.
He was employed, earning £37,000 pa.
He owned his home, valued at £155,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £40,000. 
He had cash savings of £5,000.
His attitude to risk was recorded as being cautious/low balanced.
Mr W had been a member of the BSPS for 20 years.
Mr W had joined the employers defined contribution scheme which had replaced the 
defined benefit BSPS.
Mr W had an anticipated retirement age of between 55 and 57 (the latter being the 
earliest Mr W will be able to retire after 2028) .
In terms of Mr Ws deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, at 
which point Bartholomew Financial Limited said that he could expect an annual income of 
£20,878, or tax free cash of £92,243 and a reduced income of £13,836 pa.
If Mr W retired at age 55, Bartholomew Financial Limited estimated that he would receive 
£11,416 pa.
Mr W received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £257,549 in 
August 2017, guaranteed for three months until 11 November 2017.
Within the suitability report, Mr Ws objectives were recorded as follows:
To control his pension fund. Mr W was concerned about the future of both his 
employer and the pension scheme. 
Flexibility with the level of income he would receive in retirement. 
He wanted to retire as early as possible - by age 57, with an income of £40,000 pa in 
retirement.
He wanted the facility to manage the investment of his pension funds.
He wanted the death benefits from his pension to be passed to his children. As he 
wasnt married, the spouses benefits were of no benefit to him.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that the PPP would need to grow by 5.25% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a 
retirement age of 65.
At a retirement age of 55, the PPP would need to grow by 6.75% pa to match the BSPS 
benefits.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 3.71% pa to match the PPF benefits, or 
5.45% pa to match those available at age 55. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited also provided the hurdle rate, which it said was the 
estimated annual investment return which the PPP would need to achieve to match the 
annual income Mr W would receive from the BSPS at age 60. This assumed no spouses 
pension, no increases in payment, and no guarantee. The hurdle rate was 2.7% pa. 
The fee to complete the transfer was 3% of the transfer value, which would be taken from 
the pension fund. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited recommended that Mr W transfer his deferred benefits in 
order for him to achieve his objectives, and Mr W accepted the recommendation. There was 
a slight delay in transferring the deferred benefits to the PPP, but it then completed in 
February 2018.
In subsequent correspondence, Mr W enquired about investing in shares of a single 
company, to which Bartholomew Financial Limited said that it would be happy to recommend 
a suitable, well diversified portfolio for him.
Mr W complained to Bartholomew Financial Limited in October 2019, saying that he didnt 
think hed been given the right advice and that hed suffered considerable financial loss as a 
result.Bartholomew Financial Limiteds response to the complaint
Bartholomew Financial Limited responded to Mr Ws complaint as follows:
It said that Mr W hadnt articulated specifically why he thought hed been unsuitably 
advised or why hed suffered a financial loss.
The funds actually invested were always going to be lower than the quoted transfer 
value, due to the underfunding of the scheme, but also because of the cost of the 
advice. This was confirmed in the letter of recommendation.
It set out Mr Ws circumstances and objectives, along with a chronology of meetings 
held in September and October 2017.
Mr W had confirmed that his circumstances and objectives were correctly recorded 
and summarised.
It noted that Mr W had expressed a keenness to monitor and manage his investment 
himself, with a view to investing cautiously in the first few years, until a slump in 
financial markets, at which point a higher risk could then be taken.
As it felt that this strategy would be unlikely to achieve the goal of building a sufficient 
pension fund to retire early, Bartholomew Financial Limited recommended a suitable 
managed fund, but also that Mr W use an IFA to ensure appropriate fund 
management.
The desire to manage the investments  as evidenced by email correspondence - 
did, however, deter Bartholomew Financial Limited from recommending that the 
transfer be made to Mr Ws defined contribution scheme  as it might ordinarily have 
done.
Mr W declined the offer of fund management, however, on the basis of the cost being 
prohibitive. He also had his own ideas as to how to manage his investments.
It also noted that Mr W transferred the PPP funds into a SIPP in October 2019. The 
value transferred to the SIPP was £260,348, and the amount transferred into the 
PPP after fees had been £257,968.
It held the view that a client shouldnt be advised to transfer away from a defined 
benefit scheme unless the benefits of doing do significantly outweighed the 
disadvantages. Mr Ws priorities were significantly weighted in favour of him 
transferring and his objectives couldnt possibly have been met by remaining in the 
scheme or transferring to the BSPS 2.
It wasnt possible to complete its analysis on the basis of the BSPS 2 at the time of 
the advice. The time to choose exercise didnt begin until the end of October 2017, 
and the updated terms for both the BSPS 2 and the PPF were issued to scheme 
members rather than to IFAs.
Mr W had been unable to provide the details of the BSPS 2 as hed discarded the 
letter, as indicated by correspondence from the time. Without knowing those terms, 
Bartholomew Financial Limited couldnt make a fresh analysis.
But the BSPS 2 and PPF terms were in any case less generous than those of the old 
scheme. And the income produced by the old scheme was already significantly 
below the £40,000 pa that Mr W wished to achieve in retirement. The revised 
information about the BSPS 2 would therefore have made no difference to the 
recommendation.
Mr W then referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigation
One of our investigators considered the matter, and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. She said the following in summary:Mr W had accrued benefits in the BSPS which were relatively secure. They would 
form a significant part of his pension provision. 
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that 
it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, she first considered the required critical 
yield to match the scheme benefits. 
The advice had been given just before the regulator published its updated redress 
methodology in October 2017, with which businesses could calculate future 
discount rates for complaints about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to this, 
similar rates were published by this service.
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The investigator noted that the discount rate was 4.7% pa for a period of 29 years to 
retirement, compared to a required critical yield to match the BSPS benefits of 
5.25%.
She said that this meant the potential to improve on the BSPS benefits was 
compromised  the critical yield was too high. 
So she considered it unlikely that the PPP would be able to return sufficient growth to 
improve upon the relinquished benefits. And to do so would have meant exposing Mr 
Ws pension funds to a higher level of risk than the cautious/low balanced risk rating 
recorded for Mr W.
The investigator noted that one of Mr Ws objectives was to retire early  but there 
was no recorded need to do so. With nearly 30 years to go until Mr Ws normal 
retirement date within the scheme, she thought that it would have been prudent to 
wait until nearer his retirement to review the situation.
Although it had been recorded that Mr W wanted to have control over his pension 
funds, it was the scheme trustees who oversaw the pension funds, rather than Mr 
Ws employer.
She noted the comment relating to Mr Ws wish to self invest his pension funds, and 
shed spoken to Mr W about this. Hed confirmed that he did have a trading account 
at the time and had bought some shares. But she thought that this was low level 
activity, and wasnt indicative of him being an experienced investor. Nor did the 
information recorded about Mr W indicate previous investment experience.
Although she noted that the time to choose information had been sent directly to Mr 
W, who had discarded it, there was nothing to prevent Bartholomew Financial Limited 
from re-requesting this through Mr W. This would have allowed it to undertake an 
accurate comparison with the BSPS 2.
The investigator concluded that the transfer advice was unsuitable, and that, suitably 
advised, Mr W would have transferred to the BSPS 2. She therefore recommended that 
Bartholomew Financial Limited undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators guidance, on the basis that Mr W would have transferred into the BSPS 2. 
Mr Ws representative agreed with the investigators conclusions. But Bartholomew Financial 
Limited didnt, saying the following in summary:
It drew attention to Mr Ws response to its final decision letter on his complaint, in 
which it said he was clearly not concerned by the loss of money. His sole concern 
had been that it hadnt undertaken a comparison with the potential benefits in the 
BSPS 2. But Mr W was aware of this, and had in fact discarded his time to choose 
information.
Any such comparison would have only made the case for transferring more compelling.
It also considered that the response indicated that the motive for the referral to this 
service was his awareness that colleagues had had complaints upheld.
It didnt agree that it hadnt properly assessed Mr Ws circumstances prior to the 
transfer recommendation, but it acknowledged the comments relating to the 
schemes restructure and members concerns around this.
It said that the accrued benefits were important, but it was Mr Ws perception of their 
importance, rather than the investigators, which mattered here.
At the time of the advice, the political environment and the poor perception of the 
survivability of the steel industry had a greater influence over members than had 
been recognised by the regulator.
Steel workers were concerned about their job security, and were also aware that the 
pension scheme had been underfunded for a number of years. Members understood 
the nature of the scheme, along with the difficulties it faced, well.
Members approached Bartholomew Financial Limited on a well informed basis, and 
with the intention of transferring out so that they could be independent of both the 
employer and the scheme.
It was clear that Mr W knew his options, understood the operation of the scheme and 
the PPF, and knew exactly what he wanted in terms of retirement plans. He 
approached Bartholomew Financial Limited to obtain advice about transferring, not 
for advice about whether it was the right thing for him to do.
Mr W was aware that the BSPS was offering enhanced transfer values and that the 
transfer out reduction had also been reduced.
Bartholomew Financial Limited didnt simply facilitate Mr Ws wishes  it conducted a 
full and proper review, taking account of his circumstances and objectives. This took 
into account the TVAS, which indicated that the scheme benefits would be 
considerably lower than the maximum tax free cash and £40,000 pa income which 
Mr W sought in retirement.
Mr W didnt approach Bartholomew Financial Limited seeking advice, but for a 
transaction service to facilitate his objectives. He knew what he wanted to do, and 
repeatedly rejected an ongoing investment management service, instead wishing to 
self manage his pension funds.
Mr W had no interest in the BSPS 2, and had discarded the details relating to this.
At realistic rates of growth, it concluded that Mr W would be better off by transferring.
It agreed that it should be assumed that a transfer would be unsuitable unless it 
could otherwise be demonstrated that it was in an individuals best interests, but 
these interests shouldnt be restricted to monetary considerations.
The BSPS 2 was going to be less generous than the BSPS, and may have been 
subject to entry into the PPF if the sponsoring employer undertook a further 
restructure.
The TVAS and retirement benefit reports both demonstrated that Mr Ws potential 
benefits would be considerably higher that the scheme benefits. Mr W would 
therefore be more likely to achieve his objectives through transferring out.
But the headline results of the TVAS were in any case of diminished importance to 
Mr W. He wanted to be able to protect and control his retirement provision. The only 
absolutely guaranteed benefits at the time were those which would be provided by 
the PPF.
The growth figures assumed in the TVAS were lower than those achievable in 
specific portfolios, in Bartholomew Financial Limiteds experience. It was also unsure 
of the relevance of the 29 year comparison, given that Mr W had no intention of 
working to age 65.
The investigator had said that Mr W would need to take a higher risk to achieve the 
critical yield of 5.25%. But it considered that this was achievable. It also didnt think 
that the investigators assessment had factored in the possible failure of the scheme, which Mr W thought would happen before he took retirement benefits.
It agreed that one of Mr Ws key objectives was to retire early. But in terms of the 
investigators view about a need to retire early not being discussed, it said that this 
was borne of the physically demanding nature of the job and the experienced poor 
health of colleagues. This was sufficient to demonstrate Mr Ws own need to retire 
early  a more important consideration than any judgement on this which 
Bartholomew Financial Limited might make.
As to whether or not it was realistic for someone in Mr Ws position to retire early, 
discussions took place and the relevant figures were provided, but as this was still 
some 20 years hence, no certainty could be provided.
The TVAS predicted that, at age 55, the pension produced by the scheme would be 
55% of that which would be provided at age 65. This was well below the required 
income of £40,000 pa and it was up to Mr W to decide whether this was sufficient to 
permit early retirement, or make additional provision or budgetary changes.
It noted the investigators comment that the pension arrangements could be reviewed 
closer to retirement, but it said that, as the TVAS assessed retirement at age 55, this 
aspect was considered. Further, with the devaluation of the scheme which was to 
occur, this would reduce future transfer values, meaning that transferred funds would 
need to work harder to achieve the same result. The scheme has already been 
devalued once and there were no guarantees that it would continue in its current 
form, or even survive until Mr Ws retirement.
It didnt understand the investigators comment regarding control of the pension 
scheme. Mr W had no control over the trustees investment decisions. Mr W wanted 
control over how and when he would take his own retirement benefits.
The comment relating to pension funds not being controlled was noted, albeit with 
caveats relating to the presence amongst the trustees of representatives of the 
sponsoring employer, and also that the funding of the scheme was provided by the 
employer.
It was unfair to suggest that an individuals desire to control their pension funds 
wasnt a valid reason to transfer, particularly for an intelligent and informed person 
such as Mr W.
Although Mr W may now assert that he had little experience, it considered that he 
was sufficiently experienced and intelligent to understand the ramifications of his 
desire to leave the BSPS.
With regard to the notion that, if Mr W had been advised to not transfer he wouldnt 
have done so, this assumed that the advice wasnt suitable  a position it didnt 
accept.
Mr W was fearful about the schemes prospects, and specifically that it might at some 
point move into the PPF. On that basis, even if Bartholomew Financial Limited 
advised against it, Mr W would have continued to consult other advisers until he 
found one which would satisfy his objectives.
The investigator considered the points raised, but wasnt persuaded to change her view. She 
said the following in summary:
She noted that leaving the BSPS was recorded as being one of Mr Ws objectives, 
but Bartholomew Financial Limited still had a duty to assess whether transferring out 
was in his best interests.
She couldnt see that Mr W had been made aware that he would be relinquishing 
guaranteed benefits.
She wasnt persuaded by the available evidence that Mr W had already committed 
to, and was insistent upon, transferring out.
The investigator emphasised that, when assessing Mr Ws reasons for early 
retirement, she hadnt meant that his motives should be questioned  rather it should have been determined whether it was financially viable for him. And a conversation 
about this, and possibly transferring out, could have been left until nearer the time.
Shed been told by Mr W that he had little investment experience, and the available 
evidence didnt support a different conclusion.
Bartholomew Financial Limited maintained its position that it had given suitable advice at the 
time, bearing in mind Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. It added the following:
It said the conclusions reached seemed contradictory to the documents submitted to 
this service.
It further believed that Mr Ws complaint was motivated by the potential for monetary 
gain through a referral to this service  with nothing to lose by doing so.
The comparison with the benefits available from the BSPS 2 couldnt be run at the 
time of the advice. But it had rerun this since, and the critical yield to match the BSPS 
2 benefits had been lower  at 4.75%.
But in any case, Mr Ws stated objectives couldnt have been met by remaining in the 
scheme  and those objectives hadnt changed since the advice.
Any reduction in pension benefits cant be known until closer to his retirement age, 
but this was made clear to him as one of the potential outcomes.
It disagreed that it hadnt made Mr W aware that hed be relinquishing guaranteed 
benefits, citing several examples from the documentation where it had done so.
In terms of Mr Ws commitment to leaving the BSPS, it referred to Mr Ws 
confirmation that he had discarded the time to choose pack. Mr W had also initially 
approached the business from whom Bartholomew Financial Limited had received 
the referral with the clear objective of transferring out.
It didnt, however, treat him as an insistent client, instead taking him through the 
advice process to determine what was most suitable for him.
Early retirement options were discussed with Mr W, along with comparisons with 
annuity and drawdown options. For the latter, it projected that by matching the 
scheme income, the fund would be depleted by age 84, which was further evidence 
that Mr W had been made aware that he was relinquishing guarantees. But he wasnt 
interested in the scheme guarantees.
Further comments from Mr W regarding stock market activity and the identification of 
a particular stock he was interested in demonstrated his willingness to self invest 
(against Bartholomew Financial Limiteds advice to have his investments managed 
for him).
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, the complaint was referred to me for 
review.
Having noted what Bartholomew Financial Limited said about Mr W later transferring his 
PPP benefits to a SIPP, I asked the investigator to enquire of Mr W as to what prompted 
this, and how the benefits had since been invested.
In response, Mr W said that he was concerned about the performance of the fund in the PPP 
and that a colleague had recommended the SIPP on the basis of ease of use. Mr W also 
said that he has invested it in a Blackrock medium risk fund.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the case dated 29 September 2021. My findings, and 
proposed remedy, are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Bartholomew Financial 
Limited advised Mr W were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to 
ensure that regulated businesses, like Bartholomew Financial Limited, take reasonable steps 
to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not 
inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
Bartholomew Financial Limited needed to gather the necessary information for it to be 
confident that its advice met Mr Ws objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, 
this section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact 
find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Bartholomew Financial Limiteds advice to Mr W in 
the context of the above requirements.
Bartholomew Financial Limiteds rationale for transferring
Mr W had been referred to Bartholomew Financial Limited by a separate business, as he 
was uncertain about the future of the BSPS. As Bartholomew Financial Limited has 
confirmed, Mr W wasnt categorised as an insistent client, and so it could be confident that 
he would be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Bartholomew Financial Limited undertook its fact finding 
for Mr W and then set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives. The latter, as 
set out above, may be summarised as follows:
Retire at age 55 (which would become 57 when he actually reached retirement age)
Control his pension funds outside of the BSPS and away from his employer
Reshape his benefits to enable him to take a flexible income.
Potential to self invest
Death benefits to be passed to his children.
As noted by both the investigator and Bartholomew Financial Limited, the COBS rules said 
that the starting assumption for an assessment of Mr Ws options was that a transfer would 
be unsuitable, unless it could be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to 
meet specific objectives. And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But Ill 
first assess the case, in monetary terms, for the transfer of Mr Ws defined benefits.
The required growth to match the scheme benefits
Mr W hadnt by the time of the suitability report considered a preference to enter into either 
the BSPS 2 or the PPF as part of the time to choose exercise. Bartholomew Financial 
Limited has said that Mr W had no interest in this and had in fact discarded the time to choose documents that hed been sent. Bartholomew Financial Limited has said it didnt 
have the relevant details for the BSPS 2 and so it therefore used the BSPS and PPF for 
comparison purposes to determine the viability of the transfer to meet Mr Ws objectives 
from a financial perspective.
The comparison demonstrated that, at age 65, the annuity which would be produced by 
pension funds transferred and invested in the PPP (assuming the higher rate of growth in the 
illustration of 5.4% pa) would be £40,000 pa, as opposed to the uncommuted guaranteed 
pension income of £20,878 pa from the BSPS. After taking tax free cash of £92,243, the 
BSPS would provide a guaranteed income of £13,836 pa, whereas the PPP could produce a 
tax free lump sum of £250,000 and a residual annuity of £30,000 pa.
A further comparison demonstrated that, if transferred to the PPF, the deferred benefits 
would produce an annual pension of £16,603, or tax free cash of £87,305 and a reduced 
pension of £13,095. 
I have concerns, however, that the suitability report used the higher rate of growth in the 
PPP projection to predict the benefits which would be payable to Mr W. Mr W was recorded 
as having a cautious/low balanced attitude to risk, which might reasonably suggest that any 
proposed investment strategy would assume growth at the lower projected growth rate, 
which was stated as being -0.5% pa. That said, on the basis that Mr W was interested in self 
investment, albeit without any particular investment experience, I think a medium/balanced 
risk rating might have been more appropriate for him. And so the mid band growth 
assumption might reasonably have applied to him, stated as being 2.4% pa. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited chose to use the higher rate of assumed growth, presumably 
on the basis of its own projections as to what it considered achievable for different types of 
investor. These were as follows:
Cash and timed deposits, 0.75% to 2.5% p.a.
Defensive Portfolio, 3% to 4.5% p.a.
Cautious Portfolio, 4.5% to 6.5% p.a.
Balanced Portfolio, 6.5% to 8.5% p.a.
Adventurous Portfolio, 8.5% to 10% p.a.
But its difficult to understand how Bartholomew Financial Limited arrived at these projected 
growth rates, especially when I consider the following:
The (presumed  see comments below) actual lower, mid and higher growth rates 
used by the PPP provider of -0.5%, 2.4% and 5.4% respectively.
The lower, mid and higher rate growth bands set by the regulator of 2%, 5% and 8% 
respectively. 
I also note that the growth rate of 5.4% in the PPP projection produced exactly £40,000 pa 
as pension income  the amount which Mr W had said he required (albeit at age 65 rather 
than Mr Ws earlier required retirement age). And so its unclear how these figures, which 
appeared in the TVAS, were obtained. It seems unlikely to me that the PPP provider would, 
of its own accord, produce an illustration - also alluded to in the TVAS, but absent from the 
business file - which produced the exact amount of income required by Mr W, without being 
asked to do so by Bartholomew Financial Limited. Alternatively, it may be coincidence, and 
the growth rates specified for the PPP were those naturally issued by the provider.
In any case, as the investigator said, the assumed growth rate of 5.4% pa was comfortably 
higher than the discount rate for 29 years to retirement at age 65, which was 4.7% - and was 
higher still than that for 20 years to age 57  4.5%. The PPP projection also didnt include increases in payment or a spouses benefit, which would have applied to the scheme 
benefits.
I do note, with particular respect to the discount rate, that the suitability report was issued 
around the time of the FCAs revised guidance which was released in October 2017, but as 
commented by the investigator, the discount rate published by this service before then would 
nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible 
at the time.
On the basis of the other growth rates deemed achievable, not least those actually produced 
by the regulator, I dont therefore consider that the rates projected by Bartholomew Financial 
Limited were realistic representations of what might be achieved through investment in the 
PPP  and certainly not up to the balanced portfolio range of 6.5% to 8.5% which, 
according to the verbal description, might reasonably be applied to Mr W.
And even if, notwithstanding all other indicators, Bartholomew Financial Limited considered 
these growth rates to be achievable, it would have been prudent to nevertheless provide the 
actual rates deemed achievable by the regulator for the purposes of balance. I dont think its 
reasonable to have simply disregarded these.
That it didnt leads me to the conclusion that Mr W wasnt placed in a fully informed position 
to make a proper assessment of his options. He was effectively working on the assumption 
that the £40,000 pa from the PPP was likely achievable, when the rate of growth required, 
each year for a further 29 years, was higher than the regulators mid band growth rate, the 
discount rate for the same period, and the PPP projections mid band growth rate. I note that 
this was also to age 65, rather than age 57 as had been the retirement age required by Mr 
W, and that there was no spouses benefit or increases in payment.
Bartholomew Financial Limited has also said that it considers the TVAS assumptions to be 
low, and that its view is that specific portfolios have exceeded these figures. There are a 
couple of points here  my understanding is that no particular growth rates, other than the 
revaluation and increases in scheme benefits, are assumed in the TVAS. It produces a 
required yield for an alternative arrangement to achieve to match those scheme benefits. It 
doesnt assume any particular growth rate in the alternative arrangement  rather it 
determines one which needs to be achieved.
But theres a further concern here which is the principle behind what Bartholomew Financial 
Limited has said. It clearly considers the assumptions used to project future PPP growth to 
be unreasonably low, hence the use of its own projections.  
The logical conclusion here, if universally applied by all businesses, is that there would be 
nothing to prevent them from concluding that any required growth rate was, in its view, 
achievable and recommend a transfer on that basis. 
I dont think this was the intention of the regulator. Growth assumptions werent simply 
reference material whose importance could be disregarded or underplayed on the basis that 
a business concluded that those assumptions were, in its view, too conservative. And even if 
it were deemed acceptable for businesses to disregard those more widely viewed as 
achievable, it might be expected that there would be a stated rationale as to why it believed 
this was the right thing to do, so that a client could make their own decision as to whether 
those assumptions were too optimistic. But as I said above, there was no commentary as to 
why Bartholomew Financial Limited considered future growth rates to be considerably higher 
than those set by the regulator, or as was often the case, more cautious versions set by the 
pension providers themselves.  In terms of what was actually required as growth to simply match the scheme benefits, 
Bartholomew Financial Limited provided the critical yields produced by the TVAS. 
As Ive said above, the amount of growth required by the transferred funds to match those 
being relinquished in the scheme was 5.25% pa at a retirement age of 65. At a retirement 
age of 55, the PPP would need to grow by 6.75% pa to match the BSPS benefits.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 3.71% pa to match the PPF benefits, or 
5.45% pa to match those available at age 55. 
And given Mr Ws objective of retiring at age 55 (albeit 57 when he actually came to retire), 
both of the required critical yields to match the BSPS and the PPF benefits were higher than 
the mid band growth rate set by the regulator, the discount rate published by this service, 
and the highest growth rate provided in the PPP providers projection. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited has said, in its response to the investigators view, that it has 
since rerun the TVAS on the basis of the known terms of the BSPS 2  and that this had 
produced a critical yield of 4.75%. Im assuming that this has been run to age 65, rather than 
to 55, in which case it is, as has also been noted by Bartholomew Financial Limited in 
response to the investigator also using that age, of limited relevance here. But although 
lower than the require yield for the BSPS, this is still higher than the discount rate for the 29 
years to 65.
The above figures are in my view a compelling demonstration of what would be relinquished, 
in monetary terms, by transferring. Its fair to say that Bartholomew Financial Limited did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be given up, and I agree that, as the 
intelligent individual its described Mr W as being, he would have understood those 
warnings. But as Bartholomew Financial Limited will be aware, risk warnings alone wouldnt 
render unsuitable advice suitable. Bartholomew Financial Limited needed to be satisfied, 
before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the 
investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr W.
Bartholomew Financial Limiteds reasoning is that consideration of suitability shouldnt be 
restricted to monetary considerations. I agree, but the prospect of an alternative 
arrangement not matching the scheme benefits in monetary terms on the basis of 
reasonable assumptions does then make it all the more important that the other reasons for 
transferring are sufficiently compelling. 
The requirement for flexibility and control  and early retirement
This appears to have been a key objective for Mr W. But I dont think Mr W needed to take 
the associated risks here. In terms of the control and flexibility argument, I understand this 
to be that Mr W would have control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could 
potentially alter the income he withdrew from his alternative arrangement to satisfy changing 
income needs. But its unclear as to why Mr W would have needed such flexibility. No 
particular reason for wanting or needing control and flexibility was given, other than a desire 
to leave a lump sum for his children and concerns about the future viability of the scheme, 
which I address below.  
And in particular Ive thought about whether Mr W could meet his objectives of retiring at 57 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF 
And in my consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr W to take tax 
free cash from the BSPS 2 or PPF at age 57 without also starting to take an income. But by age 57, Mr W would have accrued 20 years worth of defined contributions in the 
replacement scheme. And so its likely that he could have relied on the proceeds of this, 
from age 57 and then taken guaranteed benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and 
when needed. Its likely in my view that he would have been able to rely upon the accrued 
benefits from the defined contribution scheme to defer retirement at the normal defined 
benefit scheme age of 65, and then be subject to no early retirement deduction.
Bartholomew Financial Limited has said, in support of its recommendation, that Mr W 
couldnt achieve his objective of an income of £40,000 pa in retirement if he didnt transfer. 
But notwithstanding my comments above in terms of the growth which was realistically 
achievable from the PPP  along with those relating to the single life, non-escalating basis 
upon which the PPP income was calculated, and its projection to age 65 rather than 55/57  
I cant see that any consideration was given to the additional benefits which Mr W would 
have accrued in the defined contribution scheme, which would in any case have boosted the 
income derived from his defined benefits.
This may not have produced the total income which Mr W required, but in that case his 
expectations should have been managed. A business has a responsibility to be candid with 
a client in terms of what they can reasonably expect in terms of growth which is realistic, 
based upon other regulator/provider based assumptions, and the level of risk which might 
need to be taken to achieve the objective  in this case, more likely than not exceeding that 
which Mr W was either prepared, or in a position, to take.
Mr W would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income or lump sum 
withdrawals from age 57 through the defined contribution accrual, until the point that he 
either needed, or chose to begin taking, benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And so 
any flexibility requirements in that sense could have been met.
Ive then thought about Mr Ws outstanding loan commitments. Mr Ws mortgage was 
relatively modest, and would either likely have been repaid by the time he reached 57, or 
would have required a partial element of any tax free cash entitlement Mr W wished to take 
from his defined contribution scheme benefits. 
As to Mr Ws objective to manage his pension investments, he was accruing further benefits 
in his defined contribution scheme, and given the number of years left to retirement 
compared against the benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, there would be an 
approximately even split between years membership of both schemes. As such, Mr W 
would have had the opportunity to manage his investments (albeit I accept within limits), if he 
wished, in the replacement scheme.
But in light of the number of years defined contributions by the age of 57, I think the 
guarantees attached to the defined benefits accrual would have been of considerable value 
 he was after all attributed a cautious/low balanced attitude to risk (although I accept in 
reality likely to be more balanced/medium). Mr W had some savings, but these were quite 
modest. And so his capacity for loss of his pension funds was likely to be low.  And so my 
view is that the defined benefits should not have been relinquished lightly in favour of a 
flexibility which could in any case have been met by fairly uncomplicated planning around his 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension accruals and accessibility of the former 
from age 57. 
And further on that particular note, it must also be emphasised that Mr W was 36 at the point 
of advice, and so many years away from retirement. Ive noted Bartholomew Financial 
Limited s comments that Mr W was concerned about the future prospects for the BSPS and 
that he was therefore keen to withdraw his pension fund  the predominant reason for the 
objective of control. Its also said that Mr W had made up his mind to transfer on that basis. But Mr Ws concerns around this should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that 
there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or 
concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the 
professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing 
an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
I dont think this happened here. The whole point of the BSPS consultation, which had 
resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity 
of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice the BSPS 2 
seemed more likely than not to be a viable alternative.
When the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF, 
and even once the full details of the options were known as a part of the time to choose 
exercise, members still had the choice of transferring out of the scheme, rather than 
transferring into the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
And so my view is that Mr W simply didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out 
his defined benefits at that point. Mr Ws plans, including retirement, may have changed 
significantly in the 20 intervening years between then and him reaching age 57. Any 
flexibility requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ws 
retirement. 
I also think that, in saying that the TVAS consideration of retirement at age 55 addressed 
this, Bartholomew Financial Limited has somewhat missed the point the investigator was 
making. This was that there was no need for Mr W to make any decision to transfer his 
benefits at that point, with some 20 years to go until his earliest prospective retirement date. 
The investigator wasnt alluding to simply looking at an earlier retirement date, but leaving 
matters as they were until closer to that retirement date. And for the reasons given, I agree.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the planned early 
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was a 
sufficient reason for Mr W to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
On the basis that Mr W wasnt married, he was recorded as wanting, in the event of his 
death, death benefits to be paid to his children. After the transfer, in the event of his death a 
lump sum would be payable to his beneficiaries, rather than in the form of 
spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme. 
But I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ws benefits. Firstly, he had 
no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not 
benefit from a pension income derived of his scheme membership upon retirement for a 
reasonable amount of time, were of concern at that point. 
Secondly, the accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that individuals children. The financial 
wellbeing of his children would inevitably have been a priority for Mr W, but the 
recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Ws best interests in 
terms of his retirement needs. 
And under the schemes terms, Mr Ws children would in any case have been entitled to a 
dependants pension until age 23 (they were some way off this at the time of the advice) and 
a lump sum return of his contributions to the scheme, together with compound interest. The fund value of Mr Ws defined contribution scheme membership would also have been 
available as a lump sum. 
There is also the matter of the lump sum benefits which would have been paid, had Mr W 
remained in the same employment  recorded as being four times his annual salary, 
although according to the BSPS defined contribution scheme details, beneficiaries of a 
member of that scheme would receive six times their salary (I accept that this may have 
changed since the advice was given). 
Furthermore, if there was any concern about the future security of Mr Ws children in the 
event of his death, there was a further lump sum legacy which he could have left (beyond 
the benefits mentioned above)  a property worth in the region of £155,000, which as Ive 
noted above, was encumbered by a relatively modest mortgage. 
Notwithstanding the above, a desire to leave a lump sum legacy to his children cannot 
reasonably have subjugated Mr Ws own personal requirement to benefit from his pension. 
And there was no detail about why a lump sum would have been so important to Mr Ws 
children that it would justify a transfer of Mr Ws guaranteed benefits.
I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave 
some kind of financial legacy to his children, but not essential, and certainly not of sufficient 
importance, given the other benefits which would be available to them, to justify Mr W 
compromising the security of his own retirement.
A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass 
a lump sum to beneficiaries could be particularly advantageous when compared to an 
income stream through a spouses or dependants pension (especially given Mr Ws 
particular situation), but I dont think the right conditions for this to have outweighed the 
benefits of Mr W retaining his deferred benefits were present here.
The objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mr W was relinquishing, along with the considerable other benefits to 
which Mr Ws children would be entitled in the event of his death, and Bartholomew Financial 
Limited  should have advised him that his own financial security in retirement took priority 
here.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ws children 
by way of transferring to the PPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise 
valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr W. 
What should Bartholomew Financial Limited have done  and would it have made a 
difference to Mr Ws decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr W. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr W was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr W, amongst many others in a similar position, 
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but 
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. And Bartholomew 
Financial Limited  has said that, although it considers that Mr W was already committed to transferring out of the BSPS before they met, it undertook the advice process to determine 
the suitable course of action for him.
And looking at the available options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  
was in any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the 
worst case scenario of entering the PPF. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of income 
outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ws income 
needs could have been comfortably met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he retired at age 57. The available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why flexibility would have been a sufficiently compelling reason for 
Mr W to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ws concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income 
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future 
pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns (and possibly then 
future annuity rates)  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise 
have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage repayment (if required) would have been 
available both from his accrued defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. 
Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different 
format from those available from the PPP. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
these should have been a more important consideration than Mr Ws own retirement 
guarantees which hed be relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And the critical yield was, in my view - and based upon the growth rates deemed achievable 
by the regulator and the PPP provider, rather than those predicted by Bartholomew Financial 
Limited - unlikely to be achievable to even simply match the scheme benefits (and almost 
certainly not with the type of investment risk appropriate for Mr W). 
The justification for nevertheless transferring has been that, monetary considerations aside, 
it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ws stated objectives and his concerns about the 
BSPS and his employer. 
And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what Bartholomew Financial Limited considers to 
have been the other justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given 
above. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited has commented upon Mr Ws likely understanding of what 
was being proposed, both in terms of the guarantees being relinquished and the exposure to 
investment risk, as a result of the transfer. In terms of the responsibilities of Mr W in deciding 
to proceed with the transfer, I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised 
individuals would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves 
if they wanted to transfer their defined benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex 
matter involving many factors with which Mr W, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar 
(even after conversations with colleagues)  hence his reliance on a professional party to 
take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice.For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr W simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility. 
That is the case both with the unrealistic growth rates, which lacked any balancing 
commentary around the lower rates deemed by the regulator to be achievable for the type of 
risk suited to Mr W, and the lack of management around his concerns about the BSPS 2 and 
the PPF, given the valuable guarantees provided by both.
From my assessment of this case, my view is that Mr Ws decision to proceed is likely to 
have been based predominantly on his wider concerns relating to the financial viability of the 
BSPS, but as Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and balanced 
assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process. I also agree 
with the investigator that, even though Mr W may have disposed of the time to choose 
documents, Bartholomew Financial Limited could have asked him to request replacements, 
in order to provide a comprehensive assessment of his options.
Taking account of Mr Ws circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, my view is that Bartholomew Financial Limited should have advised against the 
transfer.
But crucially in this case, Ive then thought about the decision Mr W is more likely than not to 
have taken had he been advised not to transfer. And I think this is finely balanced. Ive noted 
everything that Bartholomew Financial Limited has said about Mr Ws desire to self manage 
his pension funds, along with the share trading account he had, and the SIPP he established 
into which he later transferred the proceeds of the BSPS transfer.
I think its more likely than not that Mr W did want control of his pension funds. But Ive also 
thought carefully about why this might have been the case, and how this desire to self 
manage his funds might have been different if his concerns about the scheme benefits (and 
any likelihood of them entering the PPF, or their continuing value even if they did enter the 
PPF) had been better managed by Bartholomew Financial Limited. 
As Ive said above, Mr W was a member of the defined contribution scheme and, if he 
remained in the same employment, would have had a further 20 years or so of further 
contributions to this by age 57. And as Ive also previously said, its therefore possible that 
Mr W could have retained his deferred BSPS benefits and had a separate pot of money 
purchase funds with which he could have fulfilled any desire to self manage. Mr W would 
then have had a combination of the different type of benefits  representing almost exactly 
half of his working life each.
This could have been recommended to Mr W as, in my view, a suitable and reasonable 
compromise - retaining the valuable guarantees attached to the BSPS benefits, whilst 
simultaneously having the opportunity to manage the investment of his defined contribution 
fund if he so wished. 
I do acknowledge that, beyond influencing the type of fund in which his defined contributions 
were invested, its likely that it wouldnt have been possible to invest in particular individual 
company shares, in which I understand Mr W had expressed an interest.
But Bartholomew Financial Limited had correctly already identified this as being potentially 
unwise for an individual with no investment experience, and had recommended a managed 
portfolio instead. And so, as mentioned above, we have enquired of Mr W as to how he 
invested his pension funds once theyd been transferred to the SIPP. I considered that this 
would be quite indicative of the strength of Mr Ws desire to manage his investments and 
invest in the type of asset which wouldnt have been available in either the BSPS 2 or the replacement defined contributions scheme.
Mr W has said that he invested it in a mainstream medium risk fund. And so this wouldnt 
suggest to me that he was in fact seeking the type of asset, or indeed level of self 
management, which  wouldnt in any case have been available to him through his defined 
contributions fund. As Ive said above, this means that Mr W could have enjoyed the best of 
both worlds  20 years of defined benefits accrual, and 20 or so years of defined 
contributions accrual, self-managed to whatever extent he deemed appropriate.
Therefore, Im not currently persuaded that a desire to self-manage his pension funds would 
have prevailed over a recommendation given by Bartholomew Financial Limited to not 
transfer his defined benefit scheme funds. My view is that, suitably advised, Mr W would 
have accepted advice to retain those benefits.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr W, nor was it in 
his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ws attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk required to match the scheme benefits  a 
failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive and balanced portrayal of Mr 
Ws options and the future benefits available from both the BSPS defined benefits and 
defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
I also have significant concerns about the way in which the critical yield, itself a key indicator 
of the value of the benefits being relinquished, has been described as being achievable, 
given the prevailing views of the regulator  and the PPP provider in its own illustration - on 
achievable growth rates for an individual with Mr Ws risk rating and low capacity for loss. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited has said that the advice was nevertheless suitable on the 
basis of the other objectives identified and the described benefits of the transfer. But at least 
two of the key benefits sought by Mr W were available without needing to transfer  early 
retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of BSPS benefits which would 
have been available to him (or indeed through the PPF). And for the reasons given above, 
the rationale for a lump sum death benefit for the benefit of his children doesnt, in my view, 
stand up to scrutiny.
Bartholomew Financial Limited should have been aware that, taking account of Mr Ws 
attitude to risk with regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely 
corresponding investment returns, it was unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, 
or a successor scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. As the other reasons for 
transferring are in my view insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable 
benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or 
should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ws 
best interests. 
And although Ive thought carefully about whether a suitable recommendation to not transfer 
would have been heeded by Mr W, on balance my view, for the reasons given, is that it 
would.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr W, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Bartholomew 
Financial Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ws deferred benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, Bartholomew Financial Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
My view is aligned with that of the investigator in that, had Mr W not transferred his pension 
funds to the PPP, he would have opted to join the BSPS 2. There would be a 10% reduction 
in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the 
starting entitlement for deferred members. 
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under the PPF. And so, on the 
basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would 
likely have been higher with the PPF. 
But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr W would have 
envisaged accessing his defined contribution scheme benefits to make up any income 
shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined benefits, which 
could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. 
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS 2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Bartholomew Financial Limited receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision.Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Bartholomew Financial Limited to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: In the event that I uphold this complaint, I would require 
Bartholomew Financial Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Bartholomew Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Bartholomew Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that Bartholomew Financial Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W were to accept a final decision on the above basis, the money award would be 
binding on Bartholomew Financial Limited. My recommendation would not be binding on 
Bartholomew Financial Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr W could accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. In the event that the complaint is ultimately upheld, Mr W 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr W accepted it and had nothing further to add. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited wished to make the further points, as follows:
Had Mr W opted to join the BSPS 2 (the most likely choice), the critical yield would 
have been 4.75%. The 29 year discount rate of 4.7% would therefore have rendered 
the critical yield achievable.
It asked Mr W to re-request his time to choose pack, but he didnt do so as he had 
no interest in remaining in the scheme  which was why he had discarded the 
original.
Mr Ws reason for referring the matter to this service had been for the potential of 
financial gain with no cost to him  as confirmed in an email in January 2020.
Contrary to the investigators findings, it had assessed Mr Ws situation, as recorded 
in the fact find and attitude to risk questionnaire, and this was presented to Mr W both in the retirement benefit report/TVAS and in person. The suitability letter then 
confirmed the conclusion and rationale for the recommendation.
It had also pointed out to Mr W, both verbally and in writing, that the BSPS was a 
guaranteed source of income, which he would be relinquishing if he transferred.
Further evidence that Mr W was intent upon transferring was that he had been sent a 
letter from the scheme in August 2017 informing him that it was now offering 
enhanced transfer values. This meant that younger members would receive 
approximately 170% of previously quoted values.
Since transferring, Mr W had switched his pension from the original provider to a 
SIPP, rather than to his Aviva group personal pension. This was indicative of him 
choosing to take control of his investments via a self managed platform  thereby 
endorsing its understanding of his objective of control and self management.
With regard to the TVAS, it wished to point out that it had used a software provider to 
produce the report  it hadnt been produced by a pension provider. It provided 
clients with an expectation of growth rates which could be achieved over a five year 
continuous period, based upon the risk profile of an investment portfolio.
Mr W accepted a risk profile of medium (balanced), as confirmed to him by email. Its 
expectation of the annual return on this profile would be between 6.5% and 8.5% pa, 
based upon past performance of the investment portfolios  but this wasnt 
guaranteed.
It felt it prudent for clients to view performance figures on a more pessimistic basis 
within the TVAS report in order to highlight the benefit of the guarantees within the 
scheme. It therefore used growth assumptions based upon SMPI used by pension 
companies of -0.5%, 2.4% and 5.4% - rates more pessimistic than the regulators 
own growth rates of 2%, 5% and 8%. If the critical yield fell within that range, or close 
to it, it took the view that a transfer could be in a clients interests.
The higher the critical yield, the less likely it would be in a clients best interests  for 
example yields above 8%. It didnt therefore accept the suggestion in the provisional 
decision that it would accept any growth rate as being achievable.
The TVAS produced a critical yield of 5.25% at age 65 and 6.75% at age 55 when 
purchasing an annuity compared to the BSPS. The TVAS produced at a later date 
determined critical yields of 4.75% (4.11% for tax free cash and an annuity) at 65 and 
5.73% (4.79% for tax free cash and an annuity) at age 55 when compared to the 
benefits from the BSPS 2.
For a medium risk portfolio which could achieve between 6.5% and 8.98% pa over a 
five year period, the above critical yields were realistic. And the portfolio into which 
Mr Ws investment had been placed had achieved 8.98% pa over the five years up to 
the end of October 2021.
The above critical yields were predicated upon Mr W buying an annuity at either age 
55 or 65, but Mr W wasnt interested in this, preferring instead the route of flexible 
drawdown, as with the vast majority of people in the early stages of retirement.
As recognised by the regulator, the TVAS was a limited tool for the purposes of 
benefit comparison, replaced in October 2018 by the Transfer Value Comparator 
(TVC) and Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA) as better alternatives for demonstrating the advantages and disadvantages of transferring.
Regarding my point that Mr W could have taken flexible retirement from age 57 
through accessing his defined contributions in the GPP, and then later accessing full 
scheme benefits at age 65, it said that, assuming a combined employer and 
employee contribution of 8% pa, 3% pa salary increases on that which Mr W was 
earning in 2017 - £39,462 - and future fund growth at the discount rate of 4.7%, he 
would have amassed a fund at age 57 of £130,153.
Mr Ws objective was to draw a flexible income of £40,000 at the earliest age, which 
for him will be 57. If he placed the £130,153 in cash to protect it from market volatility, 
this would have produced the required income for a little over three years  to age 60 
 at which point he would have needed to access his BSPS 2 pension and suffer the 
early retirement reduction. This would have been 25% of his pension at age 65  a 
significant reduction, which would also have applied in the PPF.
It also queried my assumption that Mr W would remain in the same employment for 
the next 20 years. One of the reasons that a large number of members were seeking 
to transfer out of the scheme was they had no faith in their employer. There had been 
much speculation that the employer couldnt continue to run the plant at a loss, and 
the employer had spoken publicly about not being prepared to support a loss making 
business.
The employer had only made a profit in one of the last eight years, this being in 2018 
due to the restructuring of the BSPS. Steel production in the UK was under threat 
from cheaper overseas competition. The industry could also fall foul of greener 
government initiatives. 
It felt it was unlikely that Mr W would be in the same employment for the next 20 
years, in a job where the employer was paying on average 36% more than the 
equivalent role across the rest of the UK. It also said it was highly speculative to base 
Mr Ws retirement objectives on something so tenuous as to assume a guaranteed 
job with the continuity of pension contributions. 
Mr Ws desire to retire early was due to the physically demanding  and dangerous  
nature of his job. He wanted to be able to enjoy his retirement in good health and 
didnt think it would be possible to remain in the same job until age 65. 
In support of the above point, Bartholomew Financial Limited listed a number of fatal 
accidents at the plant which had occurred since 2006.
In terms of the issue of death benefits, Bartholomew Financial Limited acknowledged 
that Mr Ws children could have benefited from the sale of his house and the fund 
value of his GPP. But he was strongly opposed to his pension benefits reverting to 
the company. With no spouse, he wanted his children to benefit from this, and this 
wouldnt have been possible had he remained in the scheme.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly noted what Bartholomew Financial Limited has said about the critical yield for 
comparison of benefits with the BSPS 2, rather than the BSPS, and that this was 4.75% pa. 
Its said that, compared to the discount rate for 29 years to retirement  4.7% pa  this didnt seem unrealistic.
But there are a couple of issues here, the first being that it is still of course higher than the 
discount rate, although I accept only just. The second is that this is a rate of growth which 
needs to be achieved, year on year, to simply match the scheme benefits. For the transfer to 
have been suitable for Mr W from a purely financial perspective, there needed to be a 
realistic prospect of the transfer bettering the benefits Mr W could expect to receive from the 
scheme. Otherwise, given the valuable guarantees being relinquished, there would  again 
from a purely financial perspective, and notwithstanding other objectives  be no sound 
justification for doing so.
Furthermore, even if the critical yield was realistic, this wouldnt of itself render the transfer 
advice suitable, as set out in COBS 19.1.7(b). And for the reasons given in the provisional 
decision, I didnt think that the other objectives justified the transfer of Mr Ws guaranteed 
benefits. But where appropriate, and in answer to the further points raised by Bartholomew 
Financial Limited, Ill revisit these below.
Bartholomew Financial Limited has asserted that it had assessed Mr Ws situation  and I 
have no issue with that. As I said in the provisional decision, I was satisfied that, in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, Bartholomew Financial Limited had conducted 
fact finding and set out its assessment of Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. I also 
accepted that risk warnings had been provided, albeit simultaneously referencing that the 
provision of these wouldnt necessarily render unsuitable advice suitable.
And as to the point made about Mr Ws transfer value having received a significant 
enhancement, Im quite prepared to believe that this may have factored into his decision 
making. But Bartholomew Financial Limited, as the professional party, was aware that even 
an enhanced transfer value would still need to perform sufficiently well to match the 
guaranteed benefits Mr W could expect from the scheme. And it needed to ensure that Mr W 
appreciated that even enhanced transfer values, in the attractive guise of many hundreds of 
thousands of pounds, didnt necessarily represent value for money when compared to the 
benefits and associated guarantees being relinquished.
And for the same reasons as set out in the provisional decision, Im not persuaded that Mr W 
did appreciate that several of his objectives - early retirement and flexible income - could be 
met through the two types of scheme benefits hed have at retirement, and one of which  
lump sum death benefits for his children - shouldnt in any case have superseded his own 
retirement needs, especially given the availability of other pension and estate lumps sum 
benefits for his children. Had he done so, by virtue of Bartholomew Financial Limited 
explaining this to him, I think the appeal of an enhanced transfer value, which was in any 
case unlikely to have represented the full value of the benefits being relinquished, would 
have been diminished.
Bartholomew Financial Limited has nevertheless pointed out that Mr W has, since the 
transfer, switched from the original product provider to a SIPP, which it says endorses the 
position of a desire to self manage the pension  according to Bartholomew Financial 
Limited, another of his objectives. But Mr W has simply invested in a managed fund, rather 
than an array of self managed investments. And hes said he switched as he was concerned 
about fund performance in the original plan. I dont think this is indicative of any desire to self 
manage his pension funds being of such importance that it would justify the transfer of his 
guaranteed benefits.
Turning then to the figures produced by the TVAS report, I accept what Bartholomew 
Financial Limited has said about the software allowing it to use its own growth assumptions. 
Burt even those which it did use for the projections of potential benefits, for example the mid band level of growth at 2.4% pa which might reasonably be deemed a suitable assumption 
for a medium risk investor, was significantly lower than the 4.75% critical yield required to 
match the scheme benefits at age 65, and lower still than that which would need to be 
achieved to match the scheme benefits at age 55 (and for age 57, its likely to have been 
somewhere in between, albeit closer to that required for age 55).
Bartholomew Financial Limited has said that it used these more pessimistic growth 
assumptions to highlight the valuable guarantees which would be given up in the scheme. 
And I see nothing wrong with that  this seems to me to be entirely prudent, given the 
circumstances.
But theres then an obvious tension in it saying that it nevertheless believes its other growth 
assumption for a medium risk investor  between 6.5% and 8.5% - is realistic. It begs the 
question as to which of these rates of return  the one which is based on the scheme 
guarantees being relinquished, or that which is based on the last five years performance - 
the client is to take into account when making their decision. 
I think the use of assumed growth rates to achieve pensions which dont mirror the actual 
structure of benefits within the scheme, alongside critical yields which are calculated as 
needing to be achieved to actually match the scheme benefits, is probably sufficiently 
confusing for a layman, without then also introducing a further set of higher growth rates 
which the advising business nevertheless thinks is achievable  but which are higher than 
the discount rate and the regulators growth assumptions.
I think it would have been far from straightforward for Mr W to comprehend this. I accept that 
he had the opportunity to query anything which wasnt clear, but I also think its reasonable 
to assume that he accepted that the recommendation was being made in his best interests  
and on the basis of a headline annual income of £40,000 pa which Bartholomew Financial 
Limited had indicated was achievable through the transfer.
As it was, the rate of growth within the projection of benefits (rather than the critical yield) 
which was, according to Bartholomew Financial Limited, required to provide Mr W with the 
exact income of £40,000 that he required was also the highest of the pessimistic growth 
assumptions  at 5.4%. But this was comfortably higher than the discount rate for growth 
deemed achievable and also higher than the regulators mid band growth. And as I said in 
the provisional decision, this didnt factor in escalation in payment, spouses benefits, or a 
guaranteed payment period, as would have been the case with the scheme benefits.
Given Mr Ws medium attitude to investment risk, and as Ive said above, my view is that the 
mid band growth assumptions should have been used rather than the higher growth 
assumptions. 
Ive also noted what Bartholomew Financial Limited has said about the performance of the 
recommended fund over the last five years. And I accept that, although Mr W may have 
thought differently, it may have performed well since the advice was given, and may yet 
continue to do so. If the PPP has performed well, the amount of loss as a result of the 
proposed calculation may, as of now, be proportionately lower  or non-existent.
But it may also not perform well in the future, and could in fact perform quite poorly. Mr W 
might then be subject to the types of restrictions in income which wouldnt have applied 
under the guaranteed scheme benefits. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited has also said that Mr W wasnt interested in an annuity, at 
least in the early stages of retirement. But even if I accept that he needed flexibility of 
income, he didnt need to transfer his defined benefits and then buy an annuity. As I set out in the provisional decision, he could have accessed his defined contribution pension funds in 
whatever manner he saw fit before taking the guaranteed scheme benefits later on.
And although Bartholomew Financial Limited has said that, with reasonable salary increase 
and growth assumptions, Mr W would only have had a pension pot of around £130,000 at 
age 57, its assumed the wrong contribution rate of 8%. The combined contribution rate to 
the GPP is in fact 16% (10% employer and 6% employee). And so the actual fund value 
which could be available to Mr W at age 57 using the same reasonable assumptions is 
approximately double that calculated by Bartholomew Financial Limited. And even if there 
was no flexibility in Mr Ws apparent need for £40,000 pa in retirement, which would 
somewhat undermine the notion of his need for flexibility in the first place, and assuming that 
the funds were held in a zero growth environment such as cash from then on, he could still 
withdraw that amount for around seven years, taking him much closer to the scheme 
retirement date of 65. With a reduced annual income of around £34,000 and zero fund 
growth, Mr W could have reached age 65 and accessed full scheme benefits.
I do acknowledge the points made by Bartholomew Financial Limited about Mr Ws 
prospects with the same employer for a further 20 years, and I accept that concerns around 
this and the pension scheme are what prompted many members, including Mr W, to 
consider their options.
But the restructuring of the pension scheme was, I understand, one of the measures put in 
place to make it more likely that steel production at the plant could continue. And some four 
years later, there seems to be no immediate likelihood of Mr Ws employment ceasing.
In the absence of any credible or immediate threat to Mr Ws continued employment, for 
example a redundancy consultation, it would have been reasonable to assume he would 
have continued in that role for the foreseeable future. And as any other consideration of Mr 
Ws future employment prospects would have been purely speculative, the advice should 
have been given on the basis of his known situation at the time.
A potential change in Mr Ws employment was one of the unknowns which could have been 
addressed if and when it transpired. There was no need to take an irreversible course of 
action in 2017, at a point when the scheme restructure into the BSPS 2 was looking the most 
likely of eventualities, and, with the exception of the change in revaluation rates, would 
maintain the same scheme guarantees. If Mr W later became unemployed, and didnt find 
other employment which either paid as well, or didnt contribute the same amount of funding 
to his pension, he could have re-evaluated his position then. And a decision to move into the 
BSPS 2 wouldnt have prevented a future transfer into a PPP, if required.
Notwithstanding the above, and taking into account what Bartholomew Financial Limited has 
quite rightly said could be quite hazardous working conditions, if Mr W did leave that 
employment, he may well in any case have found himself in employment which was less 
physically demanding, and enabled, or even incentivised him if he enjoyed it, to work beyond 
age 57 and defer accessing any of his pension resources  both defined contributions and 
defined benefits - until normal retirement age.
And so, whilst Im grateful to Bartholomew Financial Limited for its further comments, several 
of which I accept, for the reasons given above and in the provisional decision, my view on 
this complaint remains unchanged. I dont think the transfer of Mr Ws defined benefits into 
the PPP was in his best interests, and I maintain my view that, with suitable advice, he would 
have retained them and moved into the BSPS 2.
Putting things rightAs I said the provisional decision, my aim to is put Mr W, as closely as possible, into the 
position hed be but for Bartholomew Financial Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of 
Mr Ws deferred benefits isnt possible. Therefore, Bartholomew Financial Limited should 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view remains that, had Mr W not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, he would 
have opted to join the BSPS 2. There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension 
entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for 
deferred members. 
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under the PPF. And so, on the 
basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would 
likely have been higher with the PPF. 
But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr W would have 
envisaged accessing his defined contribution scheme benefits to make up any income 
shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined benefits, which 
could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. Mr W wasnt married at the time, but I dont think this could have been ruled 
out as a possibility in the future, especially given his age.
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS 2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. 
Bartholomew Financial Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Bartholomew Financial Limited receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Bartholomew Financial Limited to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Bartholomew Financial Limited to pay Mr W the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require 
Bartholomew Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Bartholomew 
Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Bartholomew Financial Limited pays Mr W the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my decision, the money award would be binding on Bartholomew Financial 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Bartholomew Financial Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bartholomew Financial Limited should 
undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr W 
accordingly.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman