DRN-3071683
The complaint
Mr C complains British Gas Insurance Limited has mis-diagnosed an electrical fault and
unfairly turned down his claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr C called out British Gas under his home emergency insurance policy when
his tenant reported the electrics had failed at a property Mr C rented out.
After two visits by British Gas, Mr C was advised a circuit needed to be re-wired. British Gas
gave Mr C a quote for re-wiring that was just under £1,300  so this was work it didnt think
was covered by Mr Cs policy.
Mr C says his tenant told him British Gas hadnt tested all the sockets in the property.
So Mr C got a second opinion from an independent electrical engineer. Mr C says this
engineer  who visited on the same day as British Gas second engineer  not only identified
a fault in a living room socket but also fixed it within an hour. Mr C then asked his
engineer to prepare a report on the overall condition of the electrics at the property, which
he did.
Mr C complained to British Gas saying it had misdiagnosed the fault. He wanted British Gas
to refund his policy premium of £260, reimburse him for his engineers costs to fix the
fault and pay for the additional repairs to his electrics his engineer said were needed.
When Mr C didnt get a final answer from British Gas, he brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. Mr Cs policy only covered the property for
domestic (not commercial) use and activities. It also excluded cover for pre-existing faults.
Based on British Gas records, our investigator thought the electrical fault was most likely
caused by Mr Cs tenant overloading the system by using commercial power tools as part of
a business. He thought the faults identified in Mr Cs electricians report were most likely pre-
existing. And he thought it was fair of British Gas to say re-wiring was needed.
Mr C disagreed and so his complaint came to me to decide. In my first provisional decision, I
explained why I intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint. British Gas didnt have any new 
information to respond to my first provisional decision. But Mr C gave us new information 
about additional costs hed paid out to get his electrics fixed. So I needed to make a second 
provisional decision to look at this new information. British Gas says it has no comments to 
make on my second provisional decision. Mr C accepts it.
So Mr Cs complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
From records British Gas has shown us, the first engineer who visited Mr Cs property said
hed restored power to the upstairs but not to the ground floor. It seems he also said further
work was needed. The second engineer who visited reported a damp corroded circuit that
was beyond repair. He said the circuit needed to be re-wired and he quoted for this (this is
the quote of around £1,300 Ive already mentioned).
Internal notes British Gas has shown us say its engineer reported the tenant was running a
cabinet spraying business from ground floor of the property and was using commercial
power tools which have been overloading the circuits. These notes also say damage to the
circuits caused by overloading wasnt covered because Mr Cs policy was a domestic (not a
commercial) one. Other internal British Gas notes say the nature of what it calls the tenants
workshop remains unclear and requires further clarification. I havent seen any other
clarification.
Mr C says he wasnt made aware British Gas thought the fault was caused by overloading
from commercial power tools until after he brought his complaint to us. And he disputes it.
He has a statement (given in March 2021) from his engineer  who (as Ive said) visited the
property on the same date as the second British Gas engineer. In it, Mr Cs engineer says
British Gas:
are stating that the issue is caused due to an overload of the circuit, due to industrial
equipment being used at the property. This could not be the case for the following reasons:
1. The equipment that the tenant was using when I attended the property was suitable for
domestic use and was powered via a 13amp British Standard plug.
2. The issue that the circuit is having is that of an Earth fault, not an overload. It is the RCD
that is tripping, which indicates a fault to Earth, not an overloading issue of the individual
circuit.
This statement is backed up by Mr Cs engineers invoice  dated 16 June 2020 (the date of
his visit). It includes a fee for investigating the RCD tripping issue at the property, as well
as a fee for replacement of double socket front living room.
And in his report on the condition of the electrics at the property which he gave on 25 June
2020, Mr Cs engineer makes the following observations and recommendations, including in
relation to the faulty RCD:
Living room. Socket window. Access to live parts.
Light in middle room. Cables not secure and access to live parts. There are also
unidentified cables not terminated and stuffed into ceiling.
Kitchen - socket front and housing insecure. Access to live parts.
Faulty RCD. Will not reset once tripped, until all circuit MCB turned off and back on
again.
Inspection Schedule Item 4.3: Condition of enclosure(s) in terms of IP rating etc
(416.2) is recommended for improvement.
Inspection Schedule Item 4.4: Condition of enclosure(s) in terms of fire rating etc
(421.1.201; 526.5) is recommended for improvement.
Inspection Schedule Item 5.17.3: Connections of live conductors adequately
enclosed (526.5) is in a dangerous condition and presents risk of injury. Immediate
remedial action is required.
Inspection Schedule Item 5.18: Condition of accessories including socket-outlets,
switches and joint boxes (651.2(v)) is in a dangerous condition and presents risk of
injury. Immediate remedial action is required.Mr C sent British Gas a copy of his engineers report soon after he first made his complaint.
And weve sent British Gas Mr Cs engineers more recent statement from March 2021,
asking it to comment. British Gas has responded as follows:
Whilst I appreciate the third partys opinion that it was suitable for domestic use, our
engineer advised that as the property was not being used at that time for domestic use and
therefore would not be covered under the policy. It could also be viewed that when Mr C had
a third party attend the equipment being used at the time may have varied to our engineers
diagnosis.
When the engineer attended the quote was appropriate for what he seen [sic] as the circuit
was beyond repair.
I am not an electrician but, having reviewed the information I have, Im more persuaded by 
what Mr Cs engineer says about what caused the fault than by what British Gas has said. 
Mr Cs engineers statement gives clear reasons for his view on what the fault was. And his 
earlier report is also clear and comprehensive on what he thinks needs to be done.
In contrast, British Gas hasnt given us much information to substantiate its claim Mr Cs
tenant was using industrial power tools or was overloading the system by using multiple
tools. And Id have thought it should be possible to use such tools in a domestic setting
without breaking the electrics, otherwise repairs or building work couldnt be carried out on a
residential house. British Gas engineers comments on what he saw at the property that led
him to believe Mr Cs tenant was using it commercially arent detailed, and so I dont find
them very persuasive. I also dont see how his comments about the electrics being
overloaded fit in with what I think are his notes from the time saying that the circuit was 
damp beyond economic repair.
I dont think the information I have from British Gas is strong enough for me to
conclude its acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr Cs claim. Its evidence that the
electrical fault was caused by overloading by commercial power tools and so fell outside the
scope of his domestic home emergency policy isnt strong. And British Gas has given very
limited information to show the fault was pre-existing and so excluded from cover. In
Mr Cs case file, I can only find a reference to the engineer doing a test he says suggests a
hidden junction box or spire wired circuit which he describes as a pre-existing design fault.
I dont know what this means or why it would be a pre-existing design fault.
Mr C wants British Gas to refund his policy premium, reimburse him for his engineers costs 
to fix the fault and pay for the additional repairs to his electrics his engineer said were 
needed and that hes now had carried out.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to refund Mr C his policy premium. 
Thats because he had cover on his home emergency insurance policy and British Gas was 
on risk for it. But I do think its fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay the other costs 
Mr C has asked for, the specific details of which I set out in my second provisional decision 
and which British Gas has had the chance to comment on.
The experience Mr C has had with British Gas has been distressing and inconvenient for
him. He describes feelings of immense frustration with British Gas service. Hes had to go
the trouble of instructing his own engineer and hes had periods when British Gas hasnt
communicated with him to keep him up to date on his claim. Because of this, I think its fair 
and reasonable for British Gas to pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and as previously set out in my two provisional decisions on 
this complaint, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay    
Mr C:
£156 to reimburse him his electricians costs from 16 June 2020.
£144 to reimburse him the cost of his electricians report of 25 June 2020.
£80 to reimburse him his electricians costs from March 2021.
£1,160 to reimburse him his electricians costs from May 2021.
£100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
I also direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr C 8% simple interest per
annum on the first four sums Ive listed above from the date Mr C paid them to the date of
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman