The complaint
Miss B complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open two credit card 
accounts that were unaffordable.
What happened
Miss B says MBNA should not have approved her credit card applications and should not 
have increased the credit limit on them. She says she was in financial difficulty when the 
accounts were opened and had loans at the time and was using payday lending. Miss B 
says she had a gambling problem and was making transfers from her credit card accounts to 
her bank accounts which ought to have been obvious to MBNA. She would like the interest 
and charges refunded and statutory interest applied to that refund.
MBNA says Miss B opened the first account in 2016 and it carried out appropriate credit 
checks. It says Miss B was in employment and it assessed affordability. MBNA says it 
approved a credit increase and any charges or interest were applied in line with account 
terms and conditions. It says the first account was closed in 2018 and a second account 
opened that year which was also correctly assessed for affordability. MBNA says overall the 
accounts were well run and Miss B didn't tell it about any financial difficulties.
Miss B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it and thought the 
applications had been correctly and proportionately assessed.  The investigator thought the 
accounts were well run with more than minimum payments being made and that any 
charges or interest were applied in line with account terms and conditions. The investigator 
didn't think that Miss B had told MBNA about any financial difficulties or that MBNA should 
have looked at Miss B's bank statements.
Miss B doesn't accept that view and says MBNA should have carried out more detailed 
enquires of her financial position and ought to have checked her bank account statements 
which would have revealed the extent of her gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I have looked at MBNA's records and I'm satisfied both credit card applications were 
correctly assessed and that reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out. I can see 
from the records that Miss B was in employment and at the time of the applications she 
passed MBNA's credit checks comfortably. I appreciate Miss B says MBNA ought to have 
looked at her bank account statements and would have seen her gambling transactions. But 
DRN-1809593I'm satisfied that its up to MBNA to decide what its lending criteria is and what documents it 
looks at. And for the reasons I have explained I find it did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks.
I have looked at Miss B's credit card statements over the time period and I'm satisfied that 
on the whole the accounts were well run with regular monthly payments in excess of the 
minimum required payments. I think that suggests MBNA's lending was affordable and that 
its decision to lend was not irresponsible.
I'm satisfied Miss B agreed to the account terms and conditions when both accounts were 
opened. Those terms and conditions say that charges and interest will be applied in certain 
circumstances. So I don't think MBNA made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying interest 
or charges when for example a balance wasn't cleared or where the credit limit was 
exceeded.
I appreciate Miss B says it should have been obvious that she was in difficulties and was 
gambling. But I'm satisfied Miss B was entitled to use the credit card accounts as she wished 
and that using the account for a cash transfer for example was a feature of the account. I 
don't think MBNA could have known about the extent of Miss B's gambling as it would not 
have had access to her bank statements and I don't think Miss B ever told it about any such 
problems.
I would have expected MBNA to act positively and sympathetically to Miss B if she was in 
financial difficulties. But I have not seen any evidence that Miss B told MBNA about any such 
difficulties. So in those circumstances I can't fairly hold MBNA responsible for not providing 
such support when it was unaware of Miss B's circumstances and I don't think reasonably 
could have been aware.
Overall I'm satisfied MBNA has acted reasonably in carrying out proportionate checks on 
Miss B's applications, and so I can't fairly conclude the lending was irresponsible and 
unaffordable. I also think MBNA was entitled in line with the account terms and conditions to 
increase a credit limit which I think Miss B could have rejected if she wished. For those 
reasons I can't order MBNA refund any interest or charges as Miss B would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman