DRN-4107709
The complaint
B complains (on behalf of his limited company) that Revolut Ltd wont refund transactions he 
claims were unauthorised.
B has the assistance of a representative but for ease of reading, Ill treat all submissions as 
having come from B alone. 
What happened
B visited a nightclub for his stag do on Sunday 16 October 2022 between the hours of 1am 
and 2.30am. At around 6am, B discovered that he had lost his phone and wallet. B states 
multiple unauthorised transactions totalling £21,562 debited his Revolut account.
B suspects he was watched inputting his PIN into his mobile phone (which shares four digits 
with his Revolut app PIN) and the fraudsters successfully guessed his app PIN and 
accessed his account. 
B tried to locate his mobile but was unable to. He reported the matter to the police, his 
insurer and his banking providers (including Revolut). 
Revolut issued its final response on 21 October 2022 explaining that it didnt find any 
evidence of fraudulent activity. It declined to refund any of Bs disputed transactions. 
B referred his complaint to this service. He explained in summary;
He has screenshots to show fraudsters saving his PIN by dialling it on his phone (he 
has his laptop linked to his phone so was able to see this).
The payment pattern and events match a known fraud type.
There is CCTV evidence showing his location at the time of the transactions.
He had a conversation with the shop where items were purchased using his card 
which confirmed someone was spending suspiciously on his card.
There were a large number of declined payments.
There were lots of attempted contactless payments on another of his bank accounts 
but these werent successful.
He also explained the matter has caused him a great deal of stress and he wanted his 
money back, interest and compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our Investigators didnt think Revolut acted unfairly. She felt the technical evidence 
supported the disputed transactions being authorised. 
B didnt agree, he said in summary:
That he worked at the same location as a project manager for months, which is why 
the IP address matched what the scammers used.
The four-digit Revolut PIN  linked to his debit card used the same first four digits as 
his phone passcode (which he says was shoulder surfed).
Similar instances were reported in the news.
Our investigator followed up and explained all of the logins to the Revolut app during the 
morning of the disputed transactions were completed with the same IP address as Bs 
genuine account activity. Bs testimony was that he was at a stag do, not at work. Our 
Investigator also noted that Bs testimony was that the fraudster learned his PIN by 
accessing his Revolut app. 
B replied and in summary said:
In March 2022, he completed a night club project at the same location as the 
nightclub. He also regularly works in the vicinity of the area.
He was visiting the nightclub in the months leading up to October 2022, as well as 
the night in question.
Given that his phone passcode and Revolut passcode app shares four digits, he 
feels the fraudsters debit card PIN access was gained through a lucky guess as 
they also share the first four digits of the phone passcode.
Another banking provider successfully refunded disputed transactions (from the date 
in question) that occurred on his credit card.
B provided further evidence including; a letter from a company confirming that B carried out 
refurbishment works at the bar in the way he described. He also provided a timeline of his 
movements leading up to and after the fraudulent activity which Ill include a summary of:
Hed been out enjoying his stag night with friends from around 3pm on 15 October 
2023. 
He arrived at the nightclub around 00:00 on 16 October 2023.
His last text message from his mobile was at 00:33am to the bar manager with 
names of friends to enter the club.
He left the nightclub at around 02:33am on 16 October 2023.
At some point between 00:33am and 03:52am his phone was stolen from him.
Theres a gap in his memory relating to what occurred between leaving the club and 
taking a taxi home but recalls saying goodbye to the head of security outside the club 
who hed met during the course of his job. He says police later told him his drink was 
likely spiked.
He arrived home shortly before 05:08am in a taxi.
He attempted to pay the taxi driver but upon opening his wallet he noted he was only 
in possession of his driving license. Both his Revolut card and third-party bank card 
were missing. 
The taxi driver was suspiciously nice about it and said well I guess this one is a free 
one.  
Our Investigator reviewed the additional submissions and said, B didnt disclose that the 
phone passcode shared digits with Bs Revolut PIN which was quite important information 
not to disclose. The CCTV evidence didnt prove B was in a different location to where the 
transactions were taking place. The journey from the nightclub to Bs home was not over two 
hours and during this time six transactions took place and hes unable to account for his 
whereabouts. She felt there were too many inconsistencies in Bs testimony. 
B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the evidence hes provided 
clearly shows hes the innocent victim of fraud. B requested to speak to an Ombudsman 
prior to them making a decision. The complaint has been passed to me for determination. 
I contacted B as I noted he originally reported to Revolut and to this service that hed lost his 
phone and his wallet. But in an email with our investigator he said when he returned home 
he had his wallet and his driving license but his Revolut card and credit card belonging to 
another banking provider were missing. I also asked why B waited until the evening to report 
his card missing to Revolut. 
B replied explaining that his Revolut card and other banking providers card was stolen from 
his wallet. He said he reported to Revolut that his card had been stolen. He provided a 
screenshot of a message he sent to Revolut at 18:48pm on 16 October 2022 where he said 
Hi, all of todays transactions are following the theft of my card. He said at later points, he 
said wallet, cards from wallet and cards but didnt know using the words interchangeably 
had any value. He said his wallet is a card wallet and not a traditional wallet. It doesnt have 
anything but cards. 
He also said he was travelling back from his own stag party at 18:00pm and it was the first 
time he had access to a laptop and could use the chat function to speak to Revolut. For 
some time throughout the morning it was assumed that his phone was lost in the back of a 
taxi. He thought it felt sensible at the time to assume that if his phone was lost in a taxi, his 
cards may have been with it. 
B also explained that he was dyslexic and didnt disclose this before as he didnt think it was 
relevant. But given the emphasis placed on his words, he thought it was now relevant to 
disclose this information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as that of our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Generally speaking, Revolut is required to refund any unauthorised payments made from Bs 
account. Those rules are set out in the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). B has 
said he didnt carry out the transactions in dispute. I therefore need to determine whether I 
think he authorised the transactions or not. 
Ive seen from Revoluts records Bs chip was read for all the disputed transactions bar one 
which was completed by an online payment service. Revolut cant provide definitive 
evidence that the PIN was necessary to authenticate all the chip-read transactions. 
However, Ive noted some of the disputed transactions were ATM withdrawals. Its therefore 
reasonable for me to assume that the PIN was needed to authenticate these transactions.  I 
think on balance, the disputed transactions were authenticated. This is important, though not 
enough on its own to say Revolut can hold B liable for the transactions. 
A payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has 
consented to it. This means the customer must have consented to a payment transaction 
taking place. So, Ive gone on to consider here whether I think B consented to the 
transactions and therefore whether they were authorised or not.Ive noted Bs last genuine transaction took place on 15 October 2022 at 2.41pm and was a 
contactless payment. So I dont think its likely that someone shoulder surfed him and gained 
access to his card at this stage as a PIN wasnt required for the transaction. 
B explained that his card and mobile phone were stolen and that no one had knowledge of 
his PIN or access to his mobile phone. He also said his PIN wasnt written down anywhere. 
B initially believed that a fraudster was able to gain access to his mobile phone and PIN 
through shoulder surfing. He said his mobile phone PIN and Revolut banking app PIN all 
shared similar numbers that are personal to him. He initially felt that someone gained access 
to his Revolut debit card PIN by accessing his Revolut banking app and viewing the PIN. He 
later explained that his Revolut debit card PIN was likely guessed correctly as it also shares 
the same first four digits as his mobile phone passcode.  
I dont find Bs explanation of events to be likely or plausible and Ill explain why:
In Bs complaint submission, he says he lost his phone and his wallet. Yet in an 
email to our investigator, he said when he arrived home in the taxi, he attempted to 
pay the taxi driver but upon opening my wallet noted I was only in possession of my 
driving licence. This is inconsistent and I think it would be reasonable for B to have 
recalled whether he lost his wallet or just two cards that he says were in his wallet, 
despite his assertion that he used the terms cards and wallet interchangeably. 
Even if I accept Bs argument that just his cards were stolen. It would mean that a 
fraudster was able to gain access to Bs wallet (without him noticing) but only chose 
to steal his cards, rather than his wallet and driving license too. I think if a fraudster 
had stolen Bs wallet, its likely they would have stolen his entire wallet rather than 
selecting specific cards and returning the wallet and drivers license to B.
B didnt initially explain his Revolut debit card PIN and phone passcode share the 
same first four digits. B initially explained that his phone passcode shared similar 
numbers to his Revolut banking app PIN. He initially explained that he felt someone 
viewed his PIN in his Revolut banking app. However, six ATM withdrawals (which 
would have required Bs PIN) occurred from 3.52am to 3.55am. The first successful 
app login occurred after all these transactions had taken place. So, I dont think its 
plausible that an unknown third party could have viewed Bs debit card PIN first in the 
Revolut banking app. B didnt initially disclose that his Revolut debit card PIN shared 
the same first four numbers as his phone passcode. I find this to be a crucial piece of 
information that B omitted and so I do question the consistency of his testimony. 
There were no failed Revolut app attempts prior to the successful login. Bs mobile 
phone passcode and Revolut banking app PINs are similar but not the same. I think 
its unlikely that an unknown third party would have guessed the Revolut banking app 
PIN with just one attempt. 
B provided evidence from his cloud that the scammers had inserted his six-digit 
passcode to his phone and dialled it as a new number after they had stolen it. 
However, this evidence is not dated, so I dont find it supports his claim. 
B says he left the club at 2:33am but didnt arrive home until 5:08am. He cant recall 
what happened in-between other than spotting a head of security he knew at the 
nightclub upon leaving it. He said the police believed his drink was spiked. I 
appreciate what B has advised but I have concerns with his testimony. B recalls 
conversations after leaving the club and upon returning home. But he cant account 
for his whereabouts for the significant period of time between leaving the club and 
arriving home (which is when the first six ATM withdrawals took place). I find this to 
be odd but I do accept Bs testimony about potentially having his drink spiked. As our investigator pointed out, the taxi ride from the club to Bs address would have taken 
substantially less time than the times B reported he left the club and arrived home. 
So its possible B carried these transactions out himself. 
B realised his Revolut card and mobile phone were lost when he arrived home but 
didnt report the card as missing until later that evening. I do appreciate that B felt his 
cards could have been lost in a taxi, particularly as his friend advised him of this. But 
I dont think the back of a taxi is a safe location for important items to not be 
reported as lost. During the time that B failed to report the card as lost, further 
substantial transactions were carried out and its possible the card was not reported 
as lost to facilitate the transactions.
B said his fianc visited one of the stores where some of the disputed transactions 
occurred. But in later testimony and his police statement, he said he visited the store 
himself. B then explained to this service that they both visited the store. This 
changing testimony is inconsistent. 
There is a gap of five hours between the first six disputed transactions and the seventh. 
There is a further gap of two hours before the eighth. Given that the Revolut banking app 
was accessed in the very early hours of the morning and after the fraudster had carried out 
successful ATM withdrawals, I find it unusual that a fraudster wouldnt have attempted to 
withdraw all they could as quickly as possible, given that there was a risk B would have 
reported his card as lost. This isnt consistent with fraudulent activity. I think if a fraudster 
had access to Bs phone, card and PIN and online banking details, theyd have tried to utilise 
all the available funds as quickly as possible for fear that B would have reported his card as 
lost. 
I therefore think the most likely scenarios were either; B made the disputed transactions 
himself, or, he authorised another party to carry out the transactions. In either case, I think 
the transactions were authorised by B in accordance with the PSRs. And because of this, I 
dont think Revolut acted unreasonably by holding him liable for the transactions. 
I also recognise that B was unhappy with Revolut taking him through a chargeback process. 
I dont think Revolut acted unreasonably as it has a chargeback process for unauthorised 
transactions. I also dont think it materially delayed B getting an answer from Revolut. 
And even though I can accept the transactions were unusual, I dont think Revolut were 
required to intervene as Ive already concluded the transactions were authorised. And so an 
intervention wasnt required in my judgement. 
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman