DRN-2758550
The complaint
Mrs C says Prudential didnt follow the correct procedure in 2009 when she bought her
annuity and she wasnt put in an informed position prior to buying her annuity. Some service
issues have also arisen.
What happened
Mrs C had a personal pension with Prudential. She also had a FSAVC (Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contributions) policy. In 2008 she was considering buying an annuity 
with the (combined) benefits from both plans. She telephoned Prudential on 8 November 
2008 to request some quotations. She asked for new quotes on 3 February 2009.
Mrs C accepted one of the quotations issued on 3 February 2009. She completed
Prudentials application and income payment form on 8 February 2009. Her annuity was set
up with a start date of 1 March 2009. The fund value was £60,299.66 (including protected
rights of £15,461.63). Mrs C took tax free cash of £15,074.90 leaving £45,224.76 for the
annuity purchase. It provided income of £2,416.92 a year, level, guaranteed for 10 years
(five years for the income payable from the protected rights element).
Prudential wrote to Mrs C in September 2018 saying it would be undertaking a review of
some of its annuity sales. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had asked it
to look again at some of the information provided to customers when it sold annuities. 
In the provisional decision I issued on 15 March 2021 I set out in detail how the review had 
progressed and the issue that had arisen. Ive recapped what I said:
How the review progressed and issues arising 
Mrs C hadnt heard further by late February 2019 and telephoned for an update. She called
again on 12 and 14 March 2019. Prudential treated what she said (including the time taken
to carry out the review, promised call backs not having been received and contradictory
information given as to when the review would start) as a complaint.
On 1 April 2019 Prudential wrote to Mrs C asking for some further information in connection
with the review. Prudential wanted to know if shed been aware when shed bought her
annuity that certain medical or lifestyle conditions (including smoking) might mean shed be
eligible for an enhanced annuity. And if she knew she could potentially have got a higher
income by shopping around for an enhanced annuity with another provider. Prudential
referred to the retirement pack it had sent. It said Mrs C may also have been given
information on annuity options during a telephone call with an agent from Prudential.
Mrs C was asked how shed chosen her annuity. Specifically whether her decision was
based on information provided in the retirement pack or on information in that pack and/or
information given in a telephone call. If her decision was based just on the retirement pack,
she was asked to complete part 1 of the enclosed additional information form. If shed
decided based on the pack and/or information given in a telephone call, she should complete 
parts 1 and 2.
Mrs C completed part 1 to say shed chosen her annuity based on the information in the
retirement pack only. She added shed phoned Prudential to request an annuity quote and,
No advice was given by the agent they simply took my request and sent out forms. She was
directed to part 4 of the form. She was only required to complete part 2 (about enhanced
annuities) if her decision had been based on the retirement pack and/or information provided
during a telephone call.
But she completed part 2 anyway. She said she wasnt aware she couldve received a higher
income from an enhanced annuity if she had certain medical or lifestyle conditions. And
because of that she hadnt shopped around. At part 3 of the form she was reminded that she
only needed to complete that section if her decision had been based on the retirement pack
and/or information provided during a telephone call. But again she ticked the box to say she
had medical or lifestyle conditions when the annuity was set up  shed been a smoker all
her adult life.
In the notes section she said shed checked all the paperwork and an enhanced annuity
wasnt mentioned or pointed out to her when she requested quotations. She now understood
that such annuities had been available since 1995. As she was a smoker certain health
questions shouldve been asked, and she shouldve been told she might qualify for an
enhanced annuity. As Prudential didnt offer them at the time it should have told her to shop
around and get alternative quotes from other providers who did offer such annuities.
On 26 April 2019 Prudential wrote to Mrs C with the outcome of its review. Prudential said
shed been made aware of the options available to her before purchasing her annuity. Mrs C
called Prudential on 7 May 2019 to express her concern about the review outcome. I think
she also referred to the time taken to get through on the telephone. Prudential treated that
telephone call as a further complaint.
On 9 May 2019 Prudential sent its final response to Mrs Cs (first) complaint. It said it hadnt
explained the annuity review process clearly. And thered been difficulty in getting through on
the telephone. Prudential said it had paid Mrs C £75 by way of apology for the distress and
inconvenience shed been caused. Mrs C called on 14 May 2019 to say she hadnt received
that payment.
Prudential wrote to Mrs C on 21 June 2019 about the further issues shed raised, including
the outcome of the review. Prudential referred to its earlier letter about the review and to the
additional information form Mrs C signed on 23 April 2019 and what shed said about no
advice having been given.
Prudential said, during the call on 7 November 2008, the call handler informed Mrs C of her
right to shop around  the OMO. Shed said she understood that and she was a financial
consultant. And she was told Prudential could potentially offer an enhancement to her
annuity if she suffered from an illness that could shorten life expectancy, to which shed
replied, I know, I know. So she was aware of the option to shop around and the market for
enhanced annuities.
In the call on 3 February 2009 the (same) call handler said Mrs C would receive with her
quotations an annuities guide plus a key features document (KFD). He said it was important
to take the time to read the documents as not all the options and features could be
discussed over the phone. Mrs C said she understood Prudentials products as she used to
work for them.
Retirement packs, including KFDs, had been sent with the quotations (both those issued in
February 2009 and earlier). The KFD confirmed (see page 4) that an annuity could bebought with any company, known as using the OMO. It also explained the income would
depend on a combination of things including (see page 6) health considerations and lifestyle
health related factors such as smoking. Mrs C signed and returned the application and
income payment form on 8 February 2009. In doing so shed confirmed shed seen the KFD.
As to Mrs Cs other concerns, some service issues were accepted. Promised call backs
hadnt always happened. Mrs C had asked to discuss the review outcome with someone
closer to the decision but that hadnt been arranged. There were times when shed been
unable to get through on the telephone and, after queuing, the calls were abandoned or
diverted to voicemail. Some calls could have been handled better. And the letter of
9 May 2019 should have said that the payment (£75) would be made and would reach
Mrs Cs account in due course. Prudential said it would be making a further payment of
£200.
Mrs C remained dissatisfied. She wrote to Prudential on 22 June 2019. She said Prudential
had ignored the key point  that she hadnt been put in an informed position prior to
purchasing her annuity. She hadnt been sent a KFD with quotes issued on 7 November
2008 or 3 February 2009. She described herself as somewhat of a hoarder. She has all the
documentation with the envelopes dated and filed. She did receive a KFD with Prudentials
letter of 10 March 2009 confirming the annuity had been set up and what the payment
arrangements were. But thats like shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted.
She accepted that, during the first call, the call handler mentioned the OMO. But that was a
general reference and not linked to health or lifestyle. She confirmed she knew she could
shop around to get a better rate, but she didnt want to do that as shed decided to take her
annuity with Prudential. She was then asked about her health and she confirmed it was
good. The call handler went on to say the reason he was asking was that she might qualify
for an enhanced annuity if she had a health condition. But that was the extent of the
conversation. There was no mention of any health related lifestyle annuities. Nor did he
explain that Prudential didnt offer enhanced annuities but other providers did.
The call on 3 February 2009 (which Prudential had wrongly said was on 3 January 2009)
was all important and the basis of Mrs Cs complaint. The call handler didnt cover any of the
regulatory points  the OMO and enhanced annuities due to health/lifestyle choices.
Prudential had said Mrs C was told shed receive an annuities guide and KFD. And that it
was important to take the time to read the documentation as all the options and features
couldnt be covered over the telephone. Mrs C suggested that dialogue hadnt taken place
(although, having listened to the call and as discussed further below, the KFD and the need
to read it was mentioned). Prudential had drawn attention to page 6 of the KFD. But by the
time Mrs C received it shed already bought her annuity. The mis-sale took place during the
call on 3 February 2009.
Mrs C referred to COBS 19.4.13G (which Ive mentioned further below). She said where the
sale is on a non-advised basis the details set out (which include the clients lifestyle choices)
have to be communicated verbally. Sending out a KFD isnt sufficient.
Mrs C also mentioned the FCAs Thematic Review of Annuities. One of the findings was that
while the majority of customers were told about enhanced annuities, many werent informed
about shopping around for enhanced annuities or encouraged to do so to get a higher
income, particularly during telephone conversations with firms. Mrs C said shed also
forwarded a copy of her complaint direct to the FCA and to a national daily newspaper.
Prudential wrote to Mrs C on 2 September 2019. It said it was unable to support her
complaint about the sale of the annuity or the outcome of the review. Prudential repeated
some points it had made earlier, including that Mrs C had confirmed that she was aware ofboth the option to shop around and of the market place for enhancements. Prudential
referred again to the additional information form. What Mrs C had said about the telephone
call wasnt directly relevant as shed confirmed it wasnt the main basis on which shed made
her decision.
Prudential maintained Mrs C had been in an informed position when she bought her annuity
based on the information in the documentation provided; her verbal confirmation of her
experience and knowledge, specifically about the OMO and enhanced annuities, and her
general experience in financial services, including working for Prudential.
Prudential couldnt agree that KFDs hadnt been sent with the quote packs. It said there was
no reason why they wouldnt have been included  they are a key part of the standard
retirement pack. Its systems and process have been independently tested and accepted to
include the necessary enclosures. And in signing the application form on 8 February 2009
Mrs C acknowledged shed seen the KFD. Further, Prudential did offer enhanced annuities
at the time.
Prudential apologised for quoting in error a call date of 3 January 2009 instead of 3 February
2009. Mrs C had said the mis-sale happened during that second call. But COBS 19.4.13G
had never required that a telephone call must be made prior to the issue of an annuity
quotation. Customers must be provided with information about retirement options, but its
never been a requirement for that information to be given verbally. The documentation
issued to Mrs C prior to her selecting her annuity met all of the COBS requirements.
Mrs C remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us.
I then went on to summarise how our investigation had proceeded. And why the investigator 
hadnt upheld the complaint. 
Mrs C also provided some new evidence  a letter Prudential had sent her in November 
2009.  Prudential said it had identified thered been a printing error and a very small number 
of customers had been sent a KFD with some pages missing. A copy of the correct, 
complete, KFD was enclosed with the letter.
I explained that wed asked Prudential about that. It said it couldnt be sure if Mrs C had 
received a full copy of the KFD or one missing the first six pages. But even if she wasnt 
given the right KFD, it was provided later. Mrs C didnt query anything or say that shed now 
seen she couldve got an enhanced annuity or taken the OMO. Prudential referred again to 
the call on 7 November 2008. The call handler had started to tell Mrs C about the OMO but 
shed interrupted, saying she was a financial consultant and she knew all about that. He also
explained an enhanced annuity could be offered if Mrs C was in poor health. Prudential
believed Mrs C was fully aware of her options at the time.
The investigator reviewed the new information, but it didnt change her views. She said
Prudentials call handler had tried to explain health and lifestyle factors during the first call
but Mrs C told him she knew about that. As Mrs C was aware before shed purchased her
annuity (on a non-advised basis) Prudential hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs C didnt accept that. She maintained Prudential hadnt put her in a position to make an 
informed decision when shed purchased her annuity. The investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change her view. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me.  After 
Id considered everything I issued a provisional decision.
My provisional decisionI explained that my provisional conclusions were different to those of the investigator. I 
thought the complaint should be upheld. In a nutshell, I was satisfied Prudential had told Mrs 
C about the OMO. And that, if her health wasnt good and her life expectancy might be 
shortened, she might be able to get an enhancement to her annuity. Mrs C had confirmed 
she knew about those factors anyway. But, from what Id seen, I couldnt be sure Prudential 
informed Mrs C that her lifestyle choices might be relevant too. And, in particular that, as a 
smoker, she might be able to get a better annuity rate. I went on to say: 
Ive listened carefully to Mrs Cs calls with Prudential on 7 November 2008 and
3 February 2009. At the start of the first call the call handler says there are some things he
needs to cover. He goes on to say, even though Prudential would love to keep Mrs C as a
customer, she does have the right to take the OMO. Mrs C interrupts to say shes aware of
that option. The call handler acknowledges that Mrs C knows she can shop around and he
doesnt deal further with the OMO. I think thats fair enough, given Mrs C confirmed she
knows about it and that it means she can go to another provider.
The call handler then (after confirming Mrs Cs marital status) asks if shes in good health.
Mrs C confirms she is. The call handler replies, Thats good to hear, before going on to say
that Prudential can potentially offer an enhancement to the annuity if Mrs C suffers from an
illness which might shorten life expectancy. Mrs C repeats shes aware of that. The call
handler then goes on to talk about other issues, including the possible effect on the fund
value for retiring before the selected retirement date (Mrs C was coming up to her 51st
birthday at the time). He said hed send Mrs C the most popular annuity options available.
And that if she wanted to make changes to give him a call  hed given Mrs C his name and
contact details earlier in the call. There was also discussion of fund values and a market
value adjustment.
The second call, on 3 February 2009, was made by the same call handler in response to a
voicemail Mrs C left for him requesting new quotations. The call handler said that because
the quotations were personalised there were a couple of points that he needed to run
through. He checks, amongst other things, the start date for the annuity; that Mrs C wanted
to take 25% tax free cash; that the annuity was to be paid monthly in advance; and the
guarantee period required. There was also a discussion of the 50% protected rights
spouses pension and whether Mrs C wanted a with profits annuity (which she didnt).
The call handler says Mrs C will receive an annuities guide and a KFD. He asks her to take
the time to read it as not all the features of the product can be talked through over the
phone.
Mrs C has stressed the two calls were entirely separate and, as she was requesting new
quotations, Prudential should have, in effect, started from scratch in the second call and
gone through her options again, including the OMO and enhanced annuities on health
grounds. I take Mrs Cs point that her circumstances might have changed in the interim. But,
once shed been made aware that, for example, her health might be relevant in terms of the
annuity income she could get, I think it would be for her, if things had changed, to draw that
to Prudentials attention and see if it made any difference to her annuity choices. Here Mrs C
was dealing with the same person and, although a couple of months had elapsed, I dont
think Prudential was wrong to treat Mrs Cs request for up to date quotations as a follow up
and a continuation of a process that had already begun, rather than a completely new
enquiry which meant going over ground that had already been covered.
But, even if Im wrong about that, Prudential didnt mention, during either call, lifestyle
choices. I think Prudential needed to inform Mrs C - in addition to ensuring she was aware of
the OMO generally and that enhanced annuities based on illness or medical conditions were
available  that lifestyle choices were important too and could mean she might qualify for abetter rate.
As Prudential has pointed out, Mrs C was aware of the OMO and the market for enhanced
annuities based on health conditions. I can see why it might be assumed shed have also
known, as a smoker (and when the adverse health effects of smoking were generally well
publicised) that she might also qualify for an enhancement. But I dont think it must follow
(and notwithstanding that she was a financial consultant) that she knew or ought to have
known that lifestyle choices, and not just medical conditions, might also be important. And
the point is anyway that Prudential should have told her about lifestyle choices.
Prudential says the literature Mrs C received  specifically the KFD  did deal with lifestyle
choices. Mrs C says that information should have been given to her verbally and it isnt
enough to provide it in writing.
Ive looked at the relevant regulations. Mrs C has pointed to COBS 19.4.13G which
specifically mentions the clients lifestyle choices. But COBS 19.4 has been amended over
the years and that provision wasnt in force at the time. Ive considered COBS 19.4, which
deals with Open Market Options, as it was at the time Mrs C bought her annuity.
COBS 19.4.1R (1) referred to intended retirement date and COBS 19.4.1R (2) to the open
market option as meaning the option to use a personal pension and FSAVC (and other
types of pension arrangements) to purchase an annuity on the open market. And
COBS 19.4.1R (3) referred to the open market option statement as meaning:
(a) the [then regulators  the Financial Services Authoritys] Your pension: its time to
choose fact sheet, together with a written summary of the retail client's open market option,
which is sufficient for the client to be able to make an informed decision about whether to
exercise, or to decline to exercise, an open market option; or
(b) a written statement that gives materially the same information.
COBS 19.4.2R sets out when to send the open market option statement. And COBS 19.4.3R
deals with any reminder about the open market option statement and telling the client how
much money he or she has to purchase an annuity on the open market. I dont see theres
any requirement for the information to be given verbally. As Ive set out, COBS 19.4.1R (3)
requires the information to be in writing  either by way of the regulators fact sheet or a
written statement giving materially the same information.
I take Mrs Cs point about research by the regulator having shown that most consumers
dont read and/or understand that sort of information, even if theyve been asked to read it
carefully and query anything they dont understand. But it may not be fair to say that a
consumer wasnt informed about something that was covered in written information provided
which the consumer didnt read or query. And when the relevant regulations made specific
provision for the information to be given in writing.
If I was satisfied the information had been given verbally but hadnt been followed up with
written confirmation, it might be difficult to say the consumer hadnt been fully informed. That
might be an example of a regulatory breach which didnt result in unfair treatment. But thats
not the issue here. Mrs C wasnt told over the telephone, during either call, specifically about
lifestyle choices. That means the written information she received is important and might
show, even if it wasnt mentioned over the telephone, that she shouldve known that certain
lifestyle choices, such as smoking, might mean she could get a higher annuity.
Ive seen a 2007 fact sheet  Your pension  its time to choose. Im not sure if it was the
version in use in 2008/2009 but any later issued fact sheet would have had to say at least asmuch about enhanced annuities. I will forward a copy to Mrs C and Prudential. I dont think
Prudential issued the fact sheet to its customers. So what Prudential did provide (the KFD)
needed to give materially the same information.
Page 3 of the fact sheet mentions enhanced and impaired life options and says a higher
income may be paid, depending on state of health or lifestyle. On page 4 it says that one of
the factors affecting the income from a lifetime annuity is health or lifestyle and that some
companies will pay higher annuities to people who are, amongst other things, smokers.
There is then a highlighted box saying: You may be able to get a higher annuity if your
health is poor, if you are a smoker, are overweight or have followed certain occupations  so
shop around! Theres also a flow chart which mentions that an enhanced annuity might be
available to smokers. And the next steps include a reminder about enhanced annuities.
Prudentials KFD mentions the OMO - described as the freedom to select any pension
annuity provider that best meets the consumers personal circumstances. And it says the
amount of income will depend on a combination of things, including lifestyle health related
factors. Smoking is specifically given as an example.
I think the KFD does contain materially the same information about enhanced annuities and
certain lifestyle choices (although theres greater emphasis in the fact sheet on the possibility
of getting more income  for example, by using highlighted sections to reinforce the
message). But I think the KFD was enough to make Mrs C aware that, as smoker, she might
qualify for an enhanced annuity. If I was satisfied shed received the KFD, then Id probably
say shed been made aware of her options.
Mrs C has said that Prudential didnt offer enhanced annuities at the time. Prudential has
said it did, although I think that might just have been for certain medical conditions and not
for lifestyle choices. But if Mrs C got the KFD she could have explored the possibility of an
enhancement based on lifestyle choices with Prudential. And if it had said it didnt offer
enhanced annuities on that basis shed have known  because she was aware of the OMO 
that she could shop around and see if she could get an enhanced annuity from another
provider at a better rate and paying a higher income.
But theres an issue in this case as to whether Mrs C did get the KFD before she decided to
buy her annuity. I agree that getting a copy of the KFD with confirmation that her annuity had
been set up  which Mrs C accepts she did  would be too late. Whats important is whether
she was aware of her options before she took out her annuity and so was able to make an
informed choice.
I accept, as Prudential says, that retirement packs shouldve been issued with both sets of
quotations, with KFDs included.
Mrs C says she didnt get a KFD, either time. I note whats she said about being somewhat
of a hoarder and that shes retained all the documentation along with the envelopes. On the
one hand I dont see any particular reason to doubt what shes said. Especially as shes
demonstrated fairly meticulous record keeping  for example shes retained the
November 2009 letter enclosing a further (complete) copy of the KFD.
But, on the other hand, I bear in mind that were looking at what happened over ten years
ago. The passage of time makes it more difficult to say with confidence what happened. And
I do find it somewhat unlikely, that Prudential would fail, on two separate occasions, to
include an important document which was a key part of its standard mailing package. I
assume the process was automated and regularly checked. I think that sort of failure,
happening twice, would be unusual.I also note what Prudential has said about Mrs C having confirmed, on the annuity
application form, thats shed seen the KFD. If, and as she says, she didnt get a copy, Im
not sure why she signed to say she had seen it.
But, in this particular case, there were other problems with the KFD, even assuming copies
were sent with the quotations. It seems Mrs C may have received a defective KFD - one with
the first six pages missing, and which, crucially, would mean that there was no mention of
enhanced annuities due to lifestyle conditions.
Prudential has said the printing issue affected only a very small number of KFDs. And given
that Prudentials position is that two copies of the document were sent to Mrs C (prior to her
purchasing her annuity) its perhaps even more unlikely that both were defective.
Prudential might also say, if Mrs C had read the KFD, shed have seen it was incomplete
and she should have pointed that out and asked for another, complete, copy. But from what
Prudential has said, it seems the mis printed KFD started on page 7. That page appears to
start with a new section. I dont think its immediately obvious that preceding sections are
missing. The booklet is some 18 pages long. Even without the first six pages it would still be
a fair size anyway. I dont think the discrepancy in the page numbers would be that apparent.
If Mrs C had read the (incomplete) booklet she still wouldnt have known about enhanced
annuities based on certain lifestyle conditions which feature on page 6 of the KFD.
Theres no dispute that Mrs C did get a correct and complete version of the KFD in
September 2009, Prudential having by then identified that a printing error had arisen earlier.
Prudential says Mrs C didnt query anything when the correct version of the document was
sent to her in September 2009. But by then her annuity had been in payment for some
months so I dont see shed have had any particular reason to check and then query the
matter. I assume shed have just filed the document. I dont think thats unreasonable.
On balance I dont think it would be fair for me to assume that Mrs C did get at least one
version of the correct copy of the KFD prior to buying her annuity. I dont think it would be fair
to discount the possibility that, even if the document was mailed to her twice, that neither
was the correct and complete version.
If enhanced annuities due to certain lifestyle choices werent covered over the telephone and
I cant be certain that they were mentioned in written information Mrs C received, then I dont
think it would be fair to say she was informed about them and so she made a properly
informed choice when she bought her annuity.
Prudential might say that Mrs C would or ought to have been aware because of her job
about the impact of lifestyle choices on annuity rates and that some providers would offer
improved annuity rates. It seems that Mrs C was aware of the OMO and that if she had any
health issues that might mean she could get an enhanced annuity. But Im not sure it follows
that she must also have been aware about lifestyle choices. And I think she was entitled to
expect the same standard of service as any other customer. If Prudential should have
informed her about lifestyle choices and if its uncertain that Prudential did, then I dont think
it would be fair for Prudential to be able to avoid the consequences of its failing by saying
Mrs C knew or should have known anyway that her lifestyle choice might be relevant.
I also note how Prudential approached the review of the sale of Mrs Cs annuity. Prudential
made a very clear distinction between customers who said theyd relied on the written
information and those who said theyd relied on that and/or information given over the
telephone. But I dont think that approach works where, as here, the written information was
or may have been defective or incomplete.Mrs C has emphasised the significance of Prudential having been required by the regulator
to undertake a review of annuity sales. I havent approached Mrs Cs complaint on the basis
that Prudentials handling of her annuity purchase, in the light of the regulators general
concerns, must have been deficient. Ive considered the complaint on the basis of what
happened in her particular case.
I went on to set out how I thought Prudential should put things right for Mrs C. Id looked at 
historical annuity rates (from MoneyFacts Market Intelligence).  I said wed reviewed the 
rates as at 24 September 2009 which was the closest date to when Mrs Cs annuity started 
(on 1 March 2009) that we could access. Im sorry but my reference to 24 September 2009 
was an error and the date should have read 24 February 2009.  I went on to say that, from 
what Id seen, with adjustments to reflect Mrs Cs age at the time, I thought Mrs C couldve 
secured an annuity of £2,559.58 pa instead of £2,416.92 pa, so some £142.66 pa or £11.89 
pm more. Prudential needed to redress her past losses plus interest and adjust her annuity 
going forwards. I also made an award of £250 for trouble and upset. 
In response Mrs C queried what Id said about basing redress on historical annuity rates as 
at 24 September 2009. We explained that Id made a typing error. Mrs C was prepared to 
accept my provisional decision and the redress Id set out. 
Prudential said it was disappointed with my provisional decision but it didnt want to provide 
further information or comments. Prudential did however say, as the sale was part of the 
annuity review required by the regulator, it thought redress should be been based on the 
FCAs redress calculator. 
Prudential had undertaken a calculation on that basis. It showed Mrs C may have received 
an annuity of £2,619.48 pa on the open market based on her smoker status, rather than the 
annuity of £2,416.92 shes currently receiving. Prudentials figure of £2,619.48 pa is more 
than the £2,559.58 Id suggested in my provisional decision as the higher annuity on which 
redress should be based. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or comments, my views remain as set out in my 
provisional decision and recapped above.
Putting things right
Prudential has, very fairly, offered redress on the basis of what it would have paid if, when it 
reviewed Mrs Cs annuity sale, it had found thered been an issue with the sales process. 
Mrs C has confirmed that shes happy to accept the higher figure. Ive repeated the redress 
methodology I set out in my provisional decision but with the higher annuity amount 
suggested by Prudential. 
Prudential accepts that, as a smoker, Mrs C couldve got a better annuity rate. Instead of her 
current annuity of £2,416.92 she couldve got an annuity of £2,619.48 pa.
Mrs C will have a past lost and a future loss. Prudential will need pay her the past loss
amounts plus interest at 8% simple pa from the date each payment fell due to the date of
payment. And, going forwards, Prudential will need to adjust Mrs Cs annuity so that the
higher monthly amount is payable. 
 Mrs C has also suffered trouble and upset. Prudential should pay her £250 (in addition to the 
£275 Prudential has already paid).
 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint.   
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited must redress Mrs C as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman