DRN-3321648
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has rejected the claim that hes 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 January 2022 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
Mr M says that he used his Halifax credit card to make payments in December 2000 
and January 2001 totalling £20,700 under a holiday ownership purchase agreement 
for a timeshare for 78 years. He says that the agreement was declared null and void 
by an overseas court because such contracts with a term of more than 50 years are 
prohibited. He says that his credit card account was closed in January 2004.
Mr M made a claim to Halifax in August 2019 under section 75 and said that Halifax 
was jointly and severally liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the 
timeshare company so he asked it to reimburse him for the payments that hed 
made. It said that, as the breach happened at the point of sale in 2000 and 20 years 
had since passed, it had no liability to Mr M under section 75. Mr M wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Mr Ms claim more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits set out in the 
Limitation Act 1980 so, it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to take that into account 
when considering his section 75 claim and that its decision not to look into his claim 
was fair.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that 
a court has declared that his timeshare is null and void and he made a claim to 
Halifax within six years of that declaration. He says that the declaration is clear and 
an undisputed matter of law so he should be able to pursue his section 75 claim 
against Halifax. He says that he has a claim against the timeshare company because 
of the declaration and Halifax is jointly liable for the losses incurred as a result of the 
actions of the timeshare company.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Mr M used credit provided by 
Halifax to pay for the timeshare. To be able to uphold his complaint about Halifax, I 
must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
timeshare company and that Halifaxs response to his claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ms claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that.
I havent been provided with a copy of the holiday ownership purchase agreement 
that Mr M entered into with the timeshare company but he says that it had a term of 
78 years. Nor have I been provided with a copy of the court declaration which Mr M 
says declared the agreement to be null and void because such a contract with a term 
of more than 50 years was prohibited.
Halifax would only be liable to Mr M under section 75 if there had been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the timeshare company. Mr M says that the term of 
the agreement was 78 years. He entered into the agreement some time between 
December 2000 and January 2001 and Ive seen no evidence to show that the 
timeshare company wasnt prepared to provide the timeshare to him for 78 years 
from that time. Mr M didnt make a claim to Halifax until August 2019, after the court 
declaration  and I consider that it was the court declaration that led to his claim to 
Halifax and not a misrepresentation about the term of the agreement. Im not 
persuaded that the term of the agreement was misrepresented to him by the 
timeshare company or that he was induced into entering into the agreement by a 
misrepresentation about the term of the agreement. I dont consider that the court 
declaration causes the term of the agreement to have been misrepresented to him.
Nor am I persuaded that theres been a breach of contract by the timeshare 
company. Mr M says that the agreement has been declared null and void which 
means that it is unenforceable so there cant be a breach of contract. As the 
agreement is null and void, I consider that Mr M would have a claim against the 
timeshare company for a refund of the payments that he made to it (or at least a 
refund of some of those payments). But that claim isnt for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation and I dont consider that Halifax has any liability to him under 
section 75 in these circumstances.
Our investigator also considered Mr Ms claim under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. Section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a 
creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it 
determines that theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor. 
The courts have said when considering section 140A that the time limit for such a 
claim for limitation purposes runs from the date that the credit agreement ended (if it 
wasnt still running at the time that the claim was made). The limitation period for a 
claim under section 140A is six years.
Mr M says that his credit card account with Halifax was closed in January 2004. He 
hasnt made a claim to Halifax under section 140A but, even if he had done so, any 
claim resulting from the court declaration would have been made more than six years 
after hed closed his account so wouldnt have been successful.
I dont consider that Halifaxs response to Mr Ms section 75 claim was fair and 
reasonable because it didnt properly consider his claim  but, if it had properly 
considered his claim, I consider that its likely that Halifax would have concluded that 
there hadnt been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the timeshare 
company and that Mr Ms claim wouldnt have been successful.
I sympathise with Mr M for the issues that hes experienced as a result of the 
agreement being declared null and void but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Halifax to refund to him any of 
the money that he paid to the timeshare company, to pay him any compensation or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint.Subject to any further comments from Mr M or from Halifax my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. Mr M has responded to my provisional decision and 
says that:
in offering him the contract in 2000 the timeshare company acted illegally and 
beyond the law, a court has declared the contract null and void and the timeshare 
company was in breach of contract by offering it to him when its now known that it 
couldnt do so;
the contract was against the law and the timeshare company was in breach of 
contract when it offered him the contract;
the timeshare company represented to him that it was entitled to offer him the 
contract but it was against the law to do so and he was offered something illegal and 
the timeshare company wasnt within its rights to do so; and
he used his Halifax credit card for the payments and Halifax accepted the liability that 
existed at that time and his section 75 rights against it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. Mr M says 
that his purchase agreement with the timeshare company has been declared null and void 
but Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract in these circumstances. Im not 
persuaded that the timeshare company committed a breach of contract by offering the 
contract to Mr M or that it misrepresented the contract to Mr M. 
I sympathise with Mr M for these circumstances but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Halifax to refund to him any of the money that he paid to the 
timeshare company, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman