DRN-1124093
The complaint
Mr A complains that Complete Cover Group Ltd, a broker, mis-sold him a motor insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Mr A is a private hire driver and in September 2018, he arranged a policy with an insurer via 
his broker, Complete Cover. The policy included add-on, replacement car cover. 
I understand that Mr A had an accident in April 2019, made a claim against his policy and 
wasnt satisfied with the provision of a replacement car. Mr A says the policy only provided 
replacement car cover for one week. That wasnt sufficient for him, as he needed a car for 
work. He also complains that the car he was provided with wasnt of the same specification 
as his car. Mr A says that he wasnt made aware of relevant information before he took out 
the policy. 
In response to Mr As complaint, Complete Cover said it gave him the relevant information 
when he took out the policy but gave him a refund of £25 in relation to customer care issues.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Complete Cover 
had treated Mr A unfairly. The investigator said that Complete Cover didnt give Mr A advice 
about the policy but gave him sufficient information so that he could make his own decision 
about whether the policy was suitable for him. He also said Complete Cover isnt responsible 
for the specification of the replacement car provided to Mr A. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the welcome pack stated clearly what he 
paid for. Mr A said that he was initially refused a replacement car. He directed the 
investigator to the welcome pack which said that replacement vehicle cover was included. 
Mr A said that the replacement car would always only be for seven days, but insurers never 
resolve claims in less than seven days. He asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complete Cover didnt provide Mr A with advice in relation to the motor policy. Ive seen that 
it provided him with sufficient information to enable him to decide whether the policy was 
suitable for him. Mr A says that the welcome pack was clear, and I agree with him.
 
In one of the phone calls between Complete Cover and Mr A, Complete Cover referred Mr A 
to the terms and conditions of the policy and sent relevant documentation to him. So, it was 
open to Mr A to check that the policy was suitable for him. 
The documentation shows how the hire period for the replacement vehicle is calculated.    
Mr A is right that the hire period wouldnt be longer than seven days. If that wasnt suitable 
for him, it was open to him to look for a policy which met his needs. 
Complete Cover isnt responsible for providing Mr A with a replacement car  thats for the 
insurer. The investigator has explained what Mr A can do if he wishes to pursue a complaint 
about the provision of the replacement car. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but there are no grounds on which to uphold his complaint 
against Complete Cover Group Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman