DRN-4118875
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr C became involved in an investment scam. Between late May and late July 2021, he sent 
a series of faster payments to his own account at a cryptocurrency exchange (that Ill call D). 
Using his account with D, he converted his money into cryptocurrency and sent it to the 
fraudsters. 
When the value of Mr Cs apparent investment suddenly dropped, he asked to withdraw his 
money. The fraudster said this wouldnt be possible without making further payments and Mr 
C realised hed been scammed. 
Mr C reported the matter to Lloyds. It said that the payments werent covered by the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code that might otherwise have 
required it to refund Mr C, because they werent made to another person. It also argued that 
the payments were fairly typical for Mr C  so they had no reason to question them before 
they were processed. 
The matter was referred to our service and our Investigator upheld the complaint in part. 
They thought that Lloyds should have found the payment of £7,000 which took place on 11 
June 2021 to be suspicious and, had it intervened at that point, Mr Cs loss would have been 
prevented. And, as our Investigator didnt think that Mr C had acted carelessly, they 
recommended that he be refunded in full.
Lloyds continued to disagree. In summary it argued:
-The £7,000 payment made on the 11 June 2021 was not, contrary to the 
investigators view, out of character. Mr C had a history of making faster payments, 
including some larger ones. The payment was also made from a trusted device and 
went to an existing payee.
-Neither was the pattern of payments unusual  they werent rapid and Mr C often 
made several faster payments in a relatively short space of time. 
-It thought that, if it had intervened, Mr C would have likely carried on making 
payments regardless. It suggested that Mr C would have been directed by the 
fraudster to mislead the bank and would have been reluctant to give up the 
significant returns he believed hed accrued.
-It also said that its advisors would not have been able to uncover the scam as there 
was no warning about the firm on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website. 
Theres no evidence to confirm this wasnt simply a high-risk investment
-Mr C failed to carry out sufficient due diligence and his claims to have checked a 
well-known review website couldnt be shown to be true  as there were no positive 
reviews of the investment firm at that time. 
-Mr C had some recent experience of investing in cryptocurrency and had taken part 
in an online course to teach him how to do this. So, he wasnt a complete novice.
-Mr C had apparently made a significant amount of money from the investment in a 
short space of time and this was too good to be true.
-There was no evidence that the fraudster had allowed Mr C to make a withdrawal to 
gain his trust, as Mr C had claimed.
-It questioned the overall loss figure that the Investigator had recommended.
-Mr Cs account at D shows that he was receiving funds from an external source  
indicating that he was able to withdraw funds from the fraudulent investment.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
In advance of my final decision I contacted both parties, principally to try and establish the 
amount of Mr Cs loss. I provided them with my calculations and explained that there were 
several ways of deciding the loss. After further submissions from both Lloyds and Mr C, I 
explained that Id decided, subject to any further submissions, that Mr Cs loss should be 
calculated by adding up all of the payments from his Lloyds account that went to D and 
subtracting any credits he received from it. I explained that the calculation had been made 
more complicated by the fact that Mr C had been carrying out genuine cryptocurrency 
transactions during the period of the fraud.
Lloyds made no further submissions about the amount of Mr Cs loss. Mr C said that two 
payments which were received into his account at D did not come from the fraudsters and 
therefore should not be deducted from the amount that he is refunded. I explained to Mr C 
that I accepted that those payments hadnt come from the fraudsters and I suspected that 
they came from another cryptocurrency account he held. I explained that I could see that Mr 
C had made a payment to a different cryptocurrency provider from his Lloyds account of a 
very similar amount to the credits. I asked Mr C whether he could provide a statement from 
the other cryptocurrency provider to show that the payment was related to the fraud. Hes 
been unable to do this. It appears that payment was originally included as part of this claim 
but later removed from it at Mr Cs request. If, in fact, the payment is related to the scam, 
then I think Mr C will need to raise that separately with Lloyds. It will not form part of my 
calculations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulations Mr C is generally responsible for payments hes made 
himself. But taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Lloyds ought, fairly and 
reasonably, to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which 
might, among other things, indicate its customer was at risk of financial harm from fraud. But 
it has no obligation to protect its customer from a bad bargain or high-risk investment. So, 
the first question Ive considered is whether there is sufficient evidence that Mr C fell victim 
to a scam.
I think theres compelling evidence thats the case. There is an FCA warning about the 
fraudulent investment firm (albeit one that wasnt published until August 2021). While I 
acknowledge that the FCA warning is about a firm providing financial services without 
authorisation and does not conclusively state that it is defrauding people, theres also a 
wealth of other evidence to support this finding.
Ive seen correspondence between Mr C and the fraudster. Its over a popular instant 
messaging service. It does not strike me as consistent with the way an investment 
professional would correspond. But, more than that, the service being offered to Mr C  that of an account manager offering to manage his trades is a hallmark of this type of scam and, 
as far as Im aware, virtually unheard of in relation to legitimate investments. 
Mr Cs account of events is consistent with victims of similar scams  a small investment 
made by plastic card, its apparent success and pressure to make further investments. Most 
telling of all, perhaps, is the documented claim that Mr C would need to pay Capital Gains 
Tax in order to release his investment  clearly an illegitimate attempt to extract more money 
from Mr C. So, Im satisfied Mr C fell victim to a scam. 
I also think that the payment Mr C made on 11 June 2021 of £7,000 ought to have stood out 
as being unusual, such that Lloyds should have taken steps to warn Mr C about the risk of 
being defrauded. It was the largest payment that had taken place in the previous six months 
and went to a payee that had only recently been set up. It also represented a significant 
increase in the amount being paid to that payee.
Lloyds point to a single larger transaction which took place within a year of the payment as 
evidence that the activity was typical. They also highlight another payment made more than 
a year before and a smaller payment, seemingly made to the bank, within six months of the 
disputed payment.
I dont think I can reasonably take into account what appears to be a loan repayment to 
Lloyds. Nor would it be reasonable to say that a single instance of a larger payment in the 
previous year means any similar sized payment represents typical activity. A single instance 
almost a year before would very much indicate that making payments of that size was 
atypical for Mr C.
So, Im satisfied Lloyds ought to have intervened before the payment of £7,000 on 11 June 
2021 and Ive gone on to consider what might have happened had it done so. 
While its possible that Mr C might have ignored any warning given by the bank, theres no 
evidence to support this view. Neither is there any evidence to suggest that Mr C would have 
misled the bank. Im also not persuaded by Lloyds argument that it wouldnt have been able 
to uncover the scam  Ive already outlined that the key feature  that is, purchasing 
cryptocurrency from a legitimate exchange before paying it in to a trading account under the 
guidance of an account manager  was present. And assuming Mr C would have revealed 
these features (its speculative to suggest otherwise), it ought to have been apparent to 
Lloyds staff that Mr C was falling victim to a scam. It follows that it would have been in a 
position to provide a very strong warning  highlighting the common features of the scam 
and his complete lack of protection should something go wrong. Given that Mr C had only 
invested a relatively modest sum at this point, its hard to see why he wouldnt have been 
receptive to such a warning.
 
So, Im satisfied Lloyds ought to have intervened and, had it done so, the scam would have 
come to light and the loss would have been prevented. Finally, I need to consider whether 
Mr C should bear any responsibility for what happened. 
Ive noted that Mr C appears to have had some understanding of the way cryptocurrency 
works. He, relatively unusually in my experience, carried out his own cryptocurrency trading 
while also sending money to the fraudsters. I also note that Mr C seems to have taken part 
in an online course on trading. But, Im not persuaded that this meant that he was an 
experienced investor such that I should put a higher burden of responsibility on him. The 
interactions hes had with this service do not give the impression that he had anything more 
than a basic knowledge of investments. In any case, knowledge of how to trade in 
cryptocurrency, is not the same as being aware of the risk of cryptocurrency related scams. 
And, as already noted, Lloyds did not provide a warning which highlighted any of those risks. Its important to note the sophisticated aspects of this scam  the provision of a trading 
platform apparently showing live trades and the demonstrable success of the account 
manager in achieving returns  all of which would, Im sure, have seemed quite compelling 
to Mr C, as a relative layman. 
Ive thought about the steps Mr C says he took to research the investment. Given the 
investment appears to have been in cryptocurrency, it would likely be unregulated. And, as 
already noted, Mr C wouldnt have found anything concerning about the fraudsters on the 
FCA website, even if hed known to check it. 
As noted, Mr C says he checked the fraudulent investment platform on a popular review 
website before making the first substantial payment and saw that most reviews were 
favourable. I cant see that any reviews would have been present when Mr C made the first 
payment. But, as far as I can see, it does appear that when Mr C made the £7,000 payment, 
there was just a single negative and single positive review of the fraudulent investment 
platform. The negative review did use the word scam to describe the investment company 
but the reviewer does not appear to have actually lost any money. 
It has been suggested by our Investigator that the review website might have deleted some 
of the positive reviews. I understand Lloyds argument that the continued existence of fake 
reviews on the website suggests it has not taken steps to remove any, but Im aware this 
does happen and I cant rule it out. Its also possible that Mr C is mistaken and that, in fact, 
he checked the website at a later date (or not at all). There would have been points in mid-
June 2021 where positive reviews out-numbered negative ones and it wasnt until 25 June 
2021 that anyone actually reported having lost money. But I dont consider this point to be 
determinative and I suspect that Mr C was largely taken in by the apparent demonstratable 
success of his investment. 
Lloyds argue that success was unrealistic, but I think its reasonable to distinguish between 
promising high returns in advance and, as was the case here, being able to apparently 
demonstrate previous success. Its also worth noting that, at points, it was claimed that Mr 
Cs investment lost, as well as gained, in value. 
Ive thought about Mr Cs claim that he was able to withdraw money from the investment. 
While its true that the larger €500 withdrawal didnt take place until after a significant 
number of deposits, I can see that he was able to withdraw €20 before making the £7,000 
payment. That withdrawal is apparent on both Mr Cs account at D and a statement provided 
by the fraudulent trading platform. While it was a modest withdrawal, the only deposit into his 
trading account at that point appears to be for less than €300. So, I do think this would have 
added plausibility to the scam. 
Finally, I note that Mr C did come to the realisation that hed been defrauded when the 
fraudsters claimed that hed have to pay taxes in order to release his funds. This indicates to 
me that he was not oblivious to risk and was critically evaluating statements made by the 
fraudsters. 
Overall, while I accept this is a finely balanced point, Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable to make a deduction from the amount that Lloyds ought to reimburse Mr C.
Putting things right
As already explained, Ive decided that Mr Cs loss should be calculated by adding up all the 
payments he made from his Lloyds account to D after and including 11 June 2021 and 
subtracting any credits received from it. I accept that not all the payments that Mr C made to 
D were then sent on to the fraudsters. Im also aware that by using this method the amount of Mr Cs loss is slightly lower than had I calculated the loss by adding up the total value of 
the transfers to the fraudster from Mr Cs account at D and subtracting any payments he 
received (whether from the fraudster or not). However, I consider it to be the fairest way to 
establish his loss. Ive decided that Lloyds should have intervened on 11 June 2021 and, 
had it done so, Mr Cs loss would have been prevented. I can imagine that would be a 
chastening experience thats likely to have left him cautious about continuing to involve 
himself in cryptocurrency and, on balance, he wouldnt have continued to make payments to 
his cryptocurrency accounts at all (at least for some time). So, I think this method puts Mr C 
back in the position he would likely have been in, as far as is reasonably possible.
In addition, due to the way in which Mr C used his account at D, its very difficult to establish 
quite how each payment from his Lloyds account was used.
Overall, I consider this method of calculating loss to be fair, reasonable and pragmatic in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Mr C:
-The total value of the payments he made to D on and after the 11 June 2021 minus 
the total value of the credits he received from it, less any amounts already refunded 
or returned. I calculate this amount to be £27,849
-8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of the payment to the 
date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman