DRN-3015846
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander.
Within the first few weeks, Mr S experienced some issues with the car ad it was returned to 
the supplying dealer for repairs. The repirs included replacement of the rear differential oil 
seal, re-fitting and re-sealing of the oil filter and replacement of the brake pads.
In March 2020 the engine failed. A main dealer advised Mr S that the engine needed 
replacing. The manufacturer agreed to pay 20% of the cost of a new engine and the 
warranty company agreed to pay the other 80%. The warranty company and the main dealer 
were unwilling to replace the engine unless the turbo chargers were also replaced, due to 
concerns that the turbo charges might contain swarf from the previous engine failure. They 
asked Mr S to pay for the turbo chargers.
Mr S wasnt willing to pay for the turbo chargers and contacted Santander asking to reject 
the car. In response, Santander said there wasnt enough evidence to show that three was a 
fault at the point of supply.
Following this, the supplying dealer put a reconditioned engine into the car as a gesture of 
goodwill. This work was completed in July 2020, however, in September 2020 the car broke 
down again and was recovered to the supplying dealer. Metal shavings were found in the 
engine and the injectors had failed.
The car has been repaired again but Mr S doesnt think the engine sounds normal and 
doesnt feel safe driving the car. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she didnt think the engine shouldve failed 
when it did and said that Santander shouldve allowed Mr S to reject the car. She also said 
Santander should refund the deposit, refund 11 monthly payments and pay compensation of 
£100.
Santander didnt agree. It said the supplying dealer (who had fitted the reconditioned engine) 
had advised Mr S to replace the engine oil after 500 miles but that he hadnt done this. It 
said this couldve contributed to the second engine failure. Santander also said there was no 
evidence that the fault existed at the point of supply or that the repair had been 
unsuccessful.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. The business is allowed one attempt at repair. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, its up to the consumer to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
In this case, the engine failed after around 9 months after the point of supply. Mr S had 
covered just over 6500 miles during this time.
Theres no real dispute that there was a fault with the car. Mr S told Santander he wanted to 
reject the car when the engine failed, but it refused and said there wasnt evidence to show 
that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Whilst I agree that theres no engineering evidence to show that the fault with the engine 
was present at the point of supply, there are other factors which Ive considered which lead 
me to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Firstly, I dont think that a reasonable person would expect the engine on a 4-year-old 
prestige car to fail after 49,000 miles. This calls into question the durability of the car. 
Durability is an important aspect of satisfactory quality.
Secondly, the fact that the manufacturer was prepared o make a 20% contribution towards 
the new engine suggests that it didnt expect a fault like this to occur in a car of this age and 
mileage. I appreciate that the offer to contribute was made with no admission of liability, but 
Im persuaded that this was more than a goodwill gesture. I think the offer amounts to an 
acknowledgement by the manufacturer that this shouldnt have happened and supports my 
conclusion that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr S was asked to make a contribution towards the repair, which 
he didnt want to do. Given that both the main dealer and the warranty company were of the 
view that replacing the turbo chargers was a recommended part of the repair, I think this 
shouldve been included in the repairs at no cost to Mr S. It wasnt fair to ask Mr S to 
contribute toward the costs and I dont think he acted unreasonably in refusing to do so.
The repair didnt go ahead, and the supplying dealer fitted a reconditioned engine. Its not 
clear, based on the information I have, what input, or consent Mr S gave for the repair. Even 
if he accepted the repair, I dont think this prevents him from exercising his right to reject the 
car now, because the independent report obtained by Mr S shows that there is still a fault 
with the car. The engineer identified this as faulty injectors, glow plugs or engine 
compressor. These faults are so similar to the previous faults that it sees likely that the 
previous repairs werent successful. Under the relevant legislation, Mr S is allowed to reject 
the car where the attempt at repair has been unsuccessful.
The supplying dealer has asserted that the latest engine fault was caused by Mr Ss failure 
to change the oil. Ive considered this but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the 
second engine failure was due to a failure to change the oil. This service spoke to the 
manufacturer, who advised that it was highly unlikely that not changing the oil would cause 
the engine to fail again. On balance, Im not persuaded that the second engine failure was 
related to a failure to change the oil. Putting things right
Mr S was supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality and he should be allowed to 
reject it.
Mr S wasnt able to drive the car for a period following the first engine failure (March  July 
2020) and he hasnt been able to drive it since the second engine failure (October 2020 
onwards). Because Mr Ss inability to drive the car was as a result of it being of 
unsatisfactory quality, I think he should receive a refund of the payments hes made during 
this time. This amounts to 5 months to cover the period March  July 2020 and from October 
2020 until settlement.
Ive also considered the impact this has had on Mr S. Although he was provided with a 
courtesy car, this wasnt big enough to transport his large family, so he had to arrange 
alternative transport. Im of the view that Santander should pay £100 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr S has told this service that the supplying dealer has asked him to pay recovery charges 
relating to the second engine failure. Because Ive found that the engine failed on the second 
occasion due to unsuccessful repairs. I dont think its fair that Mr S should pay these costs. 
Santander should reimburse these costs or  if they still havent been paid  pay the 
supplying dealer directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.   Santander Consumer UK Plc must:
Allow Mr S to reject the car
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund any deposit or part exchange value and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 5 monthly payments to cover the period March  July 2020 and refund all payments 
made from October 2020 onwards until the date of settlement, plus 8% simple interest  from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the recovery charges charged by the supplying dealer (if these remain unpaid 
Santander should pay the supplying dealer directly)
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse entries from Mr Ss credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman