DRN-1605166
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complaint that TSB Bank Plcs IT upgrade caused problems with their 
accounts and disrupted the use of their banking services. Theyre also unhappy with the way 
in which it dealt with their complaint.
What happened
Following the upgrade of TSBs computer system, which took place during the weekend of 
20  22 April 2018, Mrs and Mr L experienced problems with their accounts and disrupted 
use of their banking services.
Mrs and Mr L said the problems they experienced meant they hadnt been able to log onto 
their online banking for a number of days, which prevented them from making payments and 
caused them to suffer distress and inconvenience.
Mrs and Mr L also said when attempting to log onto their online banking it stated the details 
they had entered were incorrect. Mrs and Mr L said this was untrue and it caused them to be 
anxious about the security of TSBs site.
Mrs and Mr L also stated that when they were able to successfully log onto online banking 
the information reported was incorrect and missing key transactions. They said their account 
was showing as being overdrawn, which was false. And they also said they were unable to 
search their account online.
Mrs and Mr L also said they couldnt see details of their new mortgage and, when they could, 
the balance was incorrect and the product name had changed. This caused Mrs and Mr L to 
doubt that their mortgage had been set up correctly.
Mrs and Mr L were unhappy with the problems theyd experienced when accessing their 
accounts and the disruption to their banking services. So they contacted TSB to discuss their 
concerns on 28 April 2018. During that conversation they said they were on the telephone 
for over an hour, of which the vast majority of time they spent on hold, and they werent 
happy TSB had understood how the issues theyd experienced had affected them. On 29 
April 2018 Mrs and Mr L formalised their concerns by raising a complaint with TSB.
By mid June Mr and Mrs L hadnt received an acknowledgment or response to their 
complaint so they raised a second complaint. They told TSB they were still unable their 
mortgage details online. And they said the information they were able to see didnt match the 
amount theyd initially borrowed. Mrs and Mr L also stated when they received paper 
statements these caused confusions as some only covered part of the period noted on the 
statement. And they said their pending online transactions werent showing full details.
Mrs and Mr L didnt receive an acknowledgment or response to this complaint either. So they 
made a third complaint on 30 June 2018. In this complaint they informed TSB they werent 
able to see previous payment recipients and their recent transactions were recorded 
incorrectly when they logged onto online banking. They said this caused them to be 
concerned about the reliability of TSBs site.As Mrs and Mr L didnt hear from TSB following this complaint they made a further complaint 
on 7 July 2018. In this complaint they told TSB the issue regarding the payees on their 
online banking hadnt been resolved and one of their payees had disappeared, which 
caused significant inconvenience.
By early December 2018 Mrs and Mr L still hadnt received a response from TSB so they 
raised a fifth and sixth complaint. In these complaints Mrs and Mr L expressed concerns that 
TSB hadnt responded to any complaints theyd raised. And they were concerned TSB had 
credited his account with funds without explaining why it was doing so or what those 
payments were for.
On 11 December 2018 TSB issued its final response to Mrs and Mr Ls complaints. It upheld 
their complaints and explained the problems raised related to IT issues that it experienced 
during April 2018 when it migrated to a new IT platform. It said some to these problems had 
persisted following its systems upgrade.
TSB apologised for the issues experienced by Mrs and Mr L and it acknowledged theyd 
received poor service. To reflect the trouble and upset this had all caused TSB explained it 
had compensated Mrs and Mr L £300, which it had paid in three separate payments of £50, 
£225 and £25.
Mrs and Mr L were dissatisfied with the content of TSBs final response letter and they felt it 
hadnt responded properly to their concerns. So they raised a further complaint about this. 
And they told TSB they wanted it to increase the compensation it had paid and waive any 
exit fees and charges they may incur in transferring their mortgage to another provider.
As TSB didnt change the way it proposed to deal with Mrs and Mr Ls complaints they 
referred their concerns to our service. Our investigator looked into Mrs and Mr Ls complaints 
and thought TSB had done enough to resolve what had happened. They explained that our 
service couldnt comment on Mrs and Mr Ls concerns about how TSB had dealt with their 
complaint because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. And they told them they 
thought the compensation TSB had already paid was fair and reasonable. But Mrs and Mr L 
disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs and Mr L expressed concerns regarding the way in which our 
investigator has approached their complaints about the problems they experienced following 
TSBs IT upgrade. I wish to assure Mrs and Mr L Ive read and considered everything they 
and TSB have told our service afresh before making a final decision here.
I can see Mrs and Mr L raised a number of separate complaints with TSB and this service is 
dealing with these concerns under one reference, as TSB did. But, Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant to deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here. So, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs and Mr L experienced here. I can appreciate that 
they were caused distress and inconvenience by what happened and I realise it must have been extremely frustrating and worrying to see information relating to their accounts which 
wasnt correct.
Based on the evidence Ive seen its clear that the issues Mrs and Mr L have referred to 
were caused by the IT migration problems TSB experienced in April 2018 and beyond that 
date. And TSB dont appear to dispute this.
TSB has already made a goodwill payment of £300, which it says addresses the problems 
Mrs and Mr L encountered across their accounts. So, the issue here is whether its acted 
fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. 
Ive looked carefully at the complaints that Mrs and Mr L submitted to TSB during 2018. They 
dont feel TSB has dealt with their concerns adequately. But I can see that it treated their 
concerns as one complaint in an inclusive way, which isnt unreasonable given the number 
of complaints Mrs and Mr L raised. 
I realise that TSBs final response didnt go into the level of detail Mrs and Mr L wanted, or 
expected. And I can see they werent happy that TSB credited their account with 
compensation without explaining what that money was for. But as our investigator explained, 
our service doesnt have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. 
So, even if I did think TSB hadnt handled Mrs and Mr Ls complaint well, I wouldnt be able 
to uphold that element of her concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. 
Impartially though, I think TSBs final response letter addressed the thrust of Mrs and Mr Ls 
concerns. 
Its clear Mrs and Mr L dont think the amount that TSB paid to resolve this complaint is 
sufficient in view of the trouble and upset they experienced. So, Ive assessed whether the 
level of compensation TSB paid appropriately recognises what happened.
Our investigator has already explained that our service isnt here to punish businesses and, 
when deciding what potential compensation to award our service must take two things into 
account: financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs and Mr L lost out financially as a result of what 
happened. So, Im satisfied I dont need to ask TSB to compensate them for any financial 
loss here.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had 
on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Having thought very carefully about the impact all of this had on Mrs and Mr L, Im satisfied 
that the £300 compensation already paid by TSB is a fair and reasonable resolution to their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand why the issues affecting Mrs and Mr L caused them great concern. Its 
clear they were affected for some time by the issues theyve complained about. But overall 
Ive seen evidence that TSB used its best efforts to resolve the issues that Mrs and Mr L, like 
many of its customers, were facing. These issues were complex and widespread, which 
explains why TSB wasnt able to resolve them quickly.But equally, Ive also considered that these problems did mean Mrs and Mr L had to spend 
time contacting TSB and that they wouldve understandably have been worried by not being 
able to view their accounts, or be sure of the status of them. Its only right that TSB 
recognises this and Im satisfied that by paying the compensation it has  its done that in a 
fair way thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that wouldve been caused 
here. 
I understand that the issues Mrs and Mr L experienced in relation to accessing their online 
banking have now been resolved. And TSB told our service that the problems Mrs and Mr L 
encountered with some of their paper statements havent reoccurred as they were an 
isolated error.
TSB accepts there may still be some problems affecting the functionality of its online 
systems. Its apologised for any issues it hasnt been able to resolve. And like our 
investigator, I think TSB has been actively trying to remedy any remaining issues with its 
online banking system. And I think its done all it can to resolve the problems its IT migration 
caused.
TSB says Mrs and Mr L are now able to view the correct balance of their mortgage online. I 
recognise Mrs and Mr L want to transfer their mortgage to another provider as a result of 
what happened. However, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell TSB to waive any exit fees 
or charges theyd incur in transferring their mortgage. Thats ultimately a decision for them to 
make.
So, while Mrs and Mr L may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation TSB has 
already paid fairly recognises the impact its errors had in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. I understand they will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end 
what we, in trying to resolve Mrs and Mr Ls dispute with TSB informally, can do for them. Im 
sorry we cant help Mrs and Mr L any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman