DRN-2896062
The complaint
Mr O complains that Anglian Windows Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2005.  
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but while they thought that Mr O had been mis-sold 
the PPI policy, there was no redress due as there was no financial loss.
Mr O requested a decision on his complaint, so it has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Having done so, I dont think that Anglian gave Mr O enough information about the PPI 
policy that it sold to him.
Mr O took out his loan and PPI policy over a period of ten years in order to pay for some 
windows  but according to the terms of the PPI policy, he wouldnt have received a 
proportionate refund of the PPI if hed cancelled it early. So, if Mr O needed to refinance, or 
pay off his loan before the term was due, it wouldve been more expensive for him to do so. 
And given the length of time Mr O took his finance over, I think that Mr O wouldve wanted 
the flexibility to be able to do so.
However, Mr O also received a discount on the windows he was buying by taking out the 
PPI policy  and this was more than the policy cost him, including interest.
This means that Mr O has not been financially disadvantaged by taking out the PPI  and 
while I dont think that Anglican Windows Ltd gave him enough information about the policy it 
sold him, there has been no financial loss to Mr O caused by the error that Anglican made.
My final decision
I do not think that Anglian Windows Ltd shouldve sold Mr O the PPI policy that it did, 
however as there has been no financial loss, there is no redress due to Mr O.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
