DRN-1524464
 
The complaint
Mrs W brings this complaint on behalf of her limited company, A. She complains about the 
time it took for Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to send her a 
statement for As account.
What happened
Mrs Ws company had an e-money account with Cashplus. In mid-2019, Cashplus decided 
to close the account. Mrs W says she was subsequently unable to access the account 
online, and she needed a statement in order to complete her tax return. In July 2019, she 
asked Cashplus to send her a statement covering 2018.
Mrs W says she didnt receive the statement, so she complained. Cashplus said it had sent 
the statement in the post a couple of days after receiving Mrs Ws request. It said it had also 
offered to re-send the statement in August, or to send it by e-mail if Mrs W gave it proof of 
identity and address. It thought it had done nothing wrong.
Our investigator found that Cashplus had sent the statement Mrs W wanted to her old 
address, although she had given it her new one. This was why Mrs W didnt receive the 
statement. The investigator thought A had been put to some inconvenience as a result, and 
that Cashplus should pay it £100 by way of compensation to reflect that.
Cashplus didnt accept that conclusion. It said Mrs W hadnt sent it proof of her new address 
or mentioned the move in later phone calls with it, and it had offered her alternatives but she 
had refused them.
Mrs W said she had finally received the statement in late November 2019. She didnt say 
whether or not she accepted the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashpluss records indicate that, in July 2019, it sent the statement Mrs W had asked for. 
But, as the investigator pointed out, it had the wrong address for Mrs W. Cashpluss records 
include a note of a conversation it had had with Mrs W in June 2019, when she gave it 
details of her new address - but the address wasn't updated on A's account.
I think it's clear that Cashplus sent the statement to the wrong address, even though it had 
Mrs Ws new one. Cashplus says Mrs W didnt give it proof of her new address. I find 
nothing in its records to indicate that it explained to her it would need that before it would 
update her address. There is nothing about that in the note of the June call. And Cashpluss 
note of a later call in August shows it knew there was an issue with Mrs Ws address - but it 
wasn't until November that Mrs W finally got the statement she wanted.I accept that Cashplus told Mrs W it would e-mail the statement to her if she provided it with 
proof of identity and address. So it did give her the option of receiving the statement by 
another means. But it was up to Mrs W to decide whether to go ahead with that; she chose 
not to. This doesnt change my conclusion here  which is that Cashplus didnt update Mrs 
Ws address on its records or tell her what she needed to do in order for that to happen. I 
think this resulted in the delay in her receiving the statement.
Mrs W has said she was able to complete her tax return without the statement, but doing so 
was more difficult than it should have been. I note that she made a number of calls to 
Cashplus over the course of several months to try to get the statement she wanted, and sent 
some e-mails. I think she was put to some inconvenience.
However, Mrs Ws limited company is the complainant in this case, so I cant award 
compensation to Mrs W for the impact this matter had on her personally. I find nothing to 
suggest A lost out financially because of the delay with the statement. But I think it has been 
inconvenienced, given the time Mrs W, its sole director, spent on this matter. 
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, I think £100 is a fair award.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to pay A £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W, on behalf 
of A, to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Janet Millington
Ombudsman