DRN-3329068
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseseguros, S.A hasnt refunded the full policy premium they paid for a travel insurance 
policy.
As Mr B brought this complaint to our service, for ease, Ive referred only to him throughout 
this decision.
What happened
On 2 March 2020, Mr B took out an InsureandGo branded travel insurance policy, which 
was underwritten by Mapfre. Mr B paid £393.53 for the policy, which provided cover between 
2 March 2020 and 1 March 2021.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed various restrictions on travel and 
movement, which were commonly referred to as lockdown. Various travel restrictions 
remained in place both domestically and internationally.
On 22 February 2021, Mr B contacted Mapfre to request a pro-rata refund of his policy 
premium. Mapfre told Mr B it could offer a pro-rata refund of £8.63, representing the unused 
portion of his policy from that date until the original contract end date.
Mr B was unhappy with the refund hed been offered and so he asked us to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator concluded that Mapfre had treated Mr B fairly. He set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He also 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to 
bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 2 March 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that Mapfres offer to pay Mr B a pro-rata refund of his premium was a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B disagreed. He said he thought the standpoint of this service would be to direct Mapfre 
to refund his policy premium for the period of the year when the government had banned 
travel for holiday purposes. He stated that he intended to take legal action.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I find that Mapfre has treated him fairly 
and reasonably and Ill explain why.
As Ive explained, our investigator set out the relevant law and cancellation rights which 
applied to the circumstances of this complaint. However, for completeness, I will revisit 
(amongst other things) the relevant law; regulators rules and the terms of Mr Bs contract 
with Mapfre in order to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS states insurance contracts such as Mr Bs insurance policy have a cooling off period 
of up to 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. 
This is called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
There is no dispute that Mr B didnt cancel his policy until 22 February 2021. Ive seen the 
contact logs of his online chat with Mapfre which show this was the date on which 
cancellation was requested. This means Mr B didnt cancel this travel insurance policy within 
14 days. And, under industry rules, even if Mr B had cancelled the policy within 14 days, he 
still wouldnt be entitled to a full refund of his premium. This is because Mapfre covered the 
risk of him cancelling any planned trips for reasons that were covered under the policy 
during that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs insurance policy with Mapfre outline his cancellation 
rights under the contract between the two parties. Page seven of the contract terms set out a 
section called Key Information, conditions and exclusions. This section includes a sub-
section titled Cancellations and cooling off period. This sub-section states:If this cover is not suitable for you and you want to cancel your policy, you must write (either 
by e-mail or letter, which you can post or fax to the number below) to InsureandGo within 14 
days of buying your policy or the date you receive your policy documentation whichever is 
the latter.
If you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14 days of 
receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. If you cancel after 14 days of 
receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will be made.
If you are an annual multi-trip policyholder and you have travelled or made a claim before 
you asked to cancel the policy, InsureandGo may only refund part of the premium.
In line with the conditions above, they will refund all the premiums you have paid within 30 
days of the date you write to them to ask to cancel the policy.
Therefore, Mr Bs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
him than industry rules require. In this case, Mr Bs policy was purchased on 2 March 2020 
and cancelled on 22 February 2021. Clearly then, this was significantly longer than 14 days 
after he bought the policy. Indeed, over 11 months of cover had elapsed at the point Mr B 
asked to cancel the policy.
As such, I dont find that Mr B was entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of his contract with Mapfre.  
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint, as our rules and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 require me to do.
I understand that given the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 and the 
impact international and domestic restrictions on travel and movement had on peoples 
ability to take any holidays. So I appreciate Mr Bs need for the annual policy during the 
policy year changed due to circumstances outside of his control. Therefore, Ive considered 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Mapfre to do anything further, taking into 
account the exceptional circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
Notwithstanding this, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr Bs contract with Mapfre to be 
performed. Cover under the policy started on 2 March 2020. 
Accordingly, Mr B was insured from 2 March 2020, for travelling on any number of trips of up 
to 90 days duration which he may have taken until the policy was cancelled on 22 February 
2021. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, Mapfre had no way of 
knowing how many such trips Mr B may have booked and planned to take (unless Mr B had 
gone on to make a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or there may 
have been none, but Mapfre was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was 
in force regardless.
I appreciate Mr B feels that the policy was unusable during much of the policy year. 
However, lockdown regulations werent in force during the whole policy period. Some travel 
restrictions were lifted  both domestically and internationally, after July 2020, even if 
restrictions were later reintroduced. So it seems to me that it was at least possible for Mr B to travel at points during the policy year. And importantly, as Ive set out above, the policy 
was providing cover for any trips Mr B might have had booked between 2 March 2020 and 
22 February 2021.
The premium Mapfre charged Mr B covered him for cancellation of any holidays which he 
had booked and was due to take from 2 March 2020 until 22 February 2021. As such, this 
meant Mr B would have been covered if he had to cancel any number of holidays because of 
any of the listed events insured under the policy.
So, Mapfre covered the risk of Mr B making a successful cancellation claim for any number 
of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of him travelling on any number of holidays, from 2 March 
2020 until 22 February 2021 Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer 
had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr B cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Mapfre 
to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, after 22 February 2021, when the policy was cancelled, Mapfre no longer bore any 
risk under Mr Bs policy the cancellation of any holidays which he may have had booked, or 
for any travelling that Mr B may have done either abroad or within the UK. And therefore, 
Mapfre calculated a pro-rata refund of the premium, taking into account the number of 
unused days Mr B had remaining on the policy. Having checked Mapfres refund calculation, 
it appears fair.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats it customers fairly. In 
these circumstances, Im satisfied that Mapfre hasnt treated Mr B unfairly or any differently 
to other customers in similar circumstances. Therefore, I find it hasnt singled him out in any 
way.
Mr B also stated on his complaint form that Mapfre hadnt let him know that there was an 
option to cancel its policies and obtain a refund. Its important I make it clear that we have no 
power to tell a financial business how to operate its business or what commercial decisions it 
should make. Thats because were not the industry regulator.
Overall, taking into account the unique and precedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19, I find that Mapfres previous offer to pay Mr B a pro-rata refund of premium of £8.63 is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This means Im not directing it to do anything 
more. Its now open to Mr B to get in touch with Mapfre if hed like to accept this offer so 
settlement can be arranged.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman