DRN-2571238
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B arranged a mortgage with Halifax in 1998. At this time a PPI policy was set up 
that covered both of them. It cost around £38 a month to provide cover for up to 12 months if 
either of them made a successful claim for unemployment an accident or sickness. 
In 1999 Mr and Mrs B arranged a new mortgage with Halifax. At this time their previous PPI 
policy was cancelled, and a new policy set up. This again covered both of them. It would 
have paid a benefit of around £500 a month for up to 24 months if either of Mr and Mrs B 
had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. They explained that the 1998 policy hadnt 
been suitable for Mr and Mrs B due to pre-existing medical conditions they had. So, the 
adjudicator upheld this PPI sale. But our adjudicator didnt think the 1999 policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B. Halifax agreed but Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
1998 sale
Our adjudicator upheld this sale, and Halifax has agreed  so there is nothing further for me 
to decide on. I will explain later in my decision what Halifax needs to do to put things right.
1999 sale
I have decided not to uphold this part of the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs B and Halifax. During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs B aware they had a choice in buying the policy.                 
Mr and Mrs B say they were led to believe they had to have the PPI. 
Halifax has provided copies of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage documents  including copies of 
their PPI and mortgage application forms. 
On the mortgage application form there is a section for the PPI which asks applicants to sign 
to say they would like PPI. On Mr and Mrs Bs form this section has been signed by both of 
them. The separate PPI application form has then been completed with some details about 
how much cover is required and some basic questions about Mr and Mrs Bs employment 
and health at the time. 
I think the information on both forms suggests that a discussion took place between             
Mr and Mrs B and Halifax about PPI and they chose the benefit amount that best suited their 
circumstances at the time. And based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like 
this at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve been made clear. They have 
both signed the PPI application form so, I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve had the opportunity to 
question anything they hadnt agreed to or were unsure about before they did. Nothing             
Mr and Mrs B have told me make me think that Halifax did anything different here. 
So overall I think its more likely Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs B they had a choice 
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this.  
Halifax recommended this policy to Mr and Mrs B. So, it had to check it was right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances they seem to have had a need for the cover. 
Neither of them were affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. Ive noted 
Mr and Mrs B both had pre-existing medical conditions, but the policy was silent on Mrs Bs 
condition and didnt exclude Mr Bs condition. 
Mr and Mrs B say they had good sick pay benefits from their employers. But the policy would 
have paid out alongside these benefits. And although Mr and Mrs B say they had other 
means  such as Mr Bs pension - they couldve used to make their repayments, having the 
PPI would have meant they couldve used those other means to cover other things if either 
of them were unable to work for any reason. So, it seems they had a need for the policy. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking out the cover.
For this sale, Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give Mr and Mrs B some of 
the commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling, and rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. 
As Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont 
apply. So, Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the 
PPI they had with that mortgage.
Putting things right
Halifax has agreed to put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI in 1998. But for clarity, Halifax has agreed to:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get[s] it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what 
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mr and Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
 My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint, and Bank of Scotland plc should put things right as 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman