DRN-1234089
Complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in September 1995.
Background
Mrs M bought the policy in September 1995. The PPI was sold to her when she applied for 
a store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ms complaint. AXA didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
In October 2019, I issued my provisional decision. At the time, this complaint was set 
up against a different business. Since issuing my provisional decision, another business, 
AXA France IARD (AXA), has taken responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, 
Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
In my provisional decision, I explained that I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Below is 
an extract of what I said: 
AXA says the PPI would have been presented as optional at the time of sale, and it 
would have gained Mrs Ms consent before adding it to her store card.
In support of what its said, AXA has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ms credit 
agreement. This shows Mrs M was given the option of adding the PPI to her account. In the 
section for the PPI, Mrs M given the choice of selecting whether or not she wanted the PPI 
added to her account. Looking at Mrs Ms credit agreement, I can see she ticked a box to 
say she wanted the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Mrs M would have 
understood the PPI, was optional. And I dont think she would have selected the cover if she 
didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs M chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs M initially told us she would have received at least 12 months sick pay from 
her employer if she was too unwell to work. She later told us that she would have been 
entitled to between 6 and 12 months. Given the time that has passed, its understandable 
that Mrs M can't be sure of what her sick pay entitlement was.From what I know, and have seen of employee benefits across a variety of industries, 
and given the length of time that Mrs M had been employed, I think it is unlikely that she 
would have received the sick pay she thinks she was entitled to at the time she applied for 
the policy.
Having considered the level of sick pay I think Mrs M was likely to have been entitled to, 
I dont think this would have meant the PPI wasnt useful for her. I say this because the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs M would have received from 
her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than she would have received 
full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs M was ever made redundant or in 
the event of death.
Having thought about what Mrs M has said about savings, again I dont think this means 
she wouldnt have found the policy useful. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI would 
have enabled Mrs M to use her savings for any other financial responsibilities she may have 
had at what could be a difficult time.
So overall, I think Mrs M could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a 
final decision.
Neither Mrs M nor AXA responded with anything further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any new 
evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman