DRN-1580768
complaint
Miss W says WAGEME.COM irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three payday loans WAGEME.COM provided to Miss W between 
July 2016 and September 2016. Details of Miss Ws lending history, as evidenced by 
WAGEME.COM is as follows:
 
 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
114/07/2016 25/07/2016 1 £110.00 £119.68
203/08/2016 25/08/2016 1 £250.00 £294.00
309/09/2016 - 1 £270.00 £300.24
 
 
Our adjudicator thought about Miss Ws complaint and felt WAGEME.COM had lent to 
her responsibly, and so didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. Miss W disagreed so, the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
WAGEME.COM needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.But certain factors might point to the fact that WAGEME.COM should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that WAGEME.COM was required 
to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
why I think Sunny checks were proportionate for Miss Ws loan
For Miss Ws first loan of £110.00 she needed to payback £119.68. Ive seen a record of the 
information Miss W provided when she completed her loan application. Miss W said she had 
a monthly income of £1268.00 and monthly expenses of £720.00. This means, after 
deducting her regular monthly outgoings, she was left with a disposable income of £548.00. 
So, it looked like she had enough disposal income to make her payments under this loan 
agreement.
Similarly, for loan 2 Miss W borrowed £250.00 and had to pay back £294.00. At this time 
Miss W had the same income but said her expenses at the time were £600.00. So, she had 
a disposable income of £668.00. For loan 3 Miss W borrowed £270.00 and had to pay back 
£300.00. At the time her income was still £1268.00, and she declared expenses of £630.00. 
So, her disposable income was £638.00, and again it seemed that this loan was affordable 
for her. Miss W has provided evidence that she had outstanding debts with other short-term lenders 
at the time and has also provided some bank statements to evidence her financial situation 
around the time of this lending. But at this point in the lending relationship I think it was 
reasonable of WAGEME.COM to have relied on what Miss W told them about her income 
and expenditure. It is of course possible that had Miss W taken further lending then 
WAGEME.COM, as a reasonable lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth 
checks at that point. But considering Miss W hadnt taken out any prior loans with 
WAGEME.COM, I dont think it had yet reached the stage where it needed to carry out 
further checks, such as verifying this information or enquiring into her wider financial 
circumstances.
I havent seen any evidence or other information that WAGEME.COM collected at the time 
that shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Miss W mightve been 
having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Miss Ws circumstances further. 
So, I think it was reasonable for WAGEME.COM to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment WAGEME.COM 
carried out for Miss Ws loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Miss W in 
these circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment for Miss W, but I want to assure 
her that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to 
me.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24July2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman