DRN-4076767
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) referred to a 
returned payment shed made to her credit card account. Shes also unhappy with its 
explanation for what happened 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to all parties and so I wont go into extensive 
detail about what happened. Instead, Ill summarise the key points.
Mrs M made two payments to her credit card account following an issue with a missed 
payment. That missed payment is a separate complaint issue that this service has already 
given an answer to. 
The two payments made by Mrs M would have meant her account was overpaid and in 
credit, and so they were returned to the originating current account (held with a different 
financial business).
When the payments were returned, they showed on Mrs Ms current account statement with 
a reference of Fraudulent Payment Suspected. 
Mrs M has been concerned that M&S has suspected her of fraudulent activity and may have 
reported as much to other financial institutions and fraud prevention agencies. She 
contacted M&S to seek an explanation as to why the reference had been applied.
M&S didnt address the issue right away. It seems to have made a mistake in not picking up 
the complaint issue as it arose soon after the missed payment complaint. Once it realised it 
had made a mistake it offered £200 compensation for the poor service and delays.
M&S went on to explain that the payments had rejected because the account was in a credit 
position, which wasnt allowed under the account terms and conditions. It said that it didnt 
hold any specific information about the rejected payments, explaining the process was 
automatic within the faster payments system.
M&S also confirmed it hadnt reported anything about the rejected payments to credit 
reference agencies or fraud prevention agencies.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with the explanation given by M&S. She remained concerned about 
what might have been reported elsewhere by M&S. And she felt the issue hadnt been 
properly addressed and explained. She referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
found there was no error on the part of M&S regarding the rejected payments. He was 
satisfied that no adverse information had been reported about the payments. And he felt the 
£200 compensation offered by M&S was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im reaching the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Theres no dispute as to whether M&S was acting within the terms and conditions of the 
account when it didnt accept the payments. The dispute is about the reference attached to 
the return.
I can understand why Mrs M has been concerned with the reference to a Fraudulent 
payment suspected. I can appreciate she wanted to find out why this had been stated and, 
perhaps more importantly, that she wants to be sure there are no adverse effects from such 
a reference. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I cant tell her why the reference appeared. M&S has said it 
doesnt hold the information as the rejection was processed automatically through the faster 
payments system. Ive no reason to doubt what its said here and theres no evidence to 
suggest that isnt true. Its even possible its something to do with Mrs Ms current account 
provider, I cant say.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest M&S has reported any information about suspected fraud 
to any external agencies.  
The role of this service is to resolve disputes informally. I know Mrs M has submitted a lot of 
evidence and information to support her case and the belief that M&S has made an error. 
But Im not persuaded it has. And, even if it had, one of the first things Id consider is 
whether there has been a financial loss because of any error and whether M&S ought to 
redress that loss. I cant see that there is one here and so there wouldnt be anything for 
M&S to do in that regard.
I can see reference has previously been made to difficulties in applying for other financial 
products, though this seems to have been mostly in relation to the earlier complaint about 
the missed payment. But Ive thought about this point anyway.
Im not persuaded the statement reference has otherwise caused a detrimental impact on 
Mrs M in relation to her ability to obtain other financial products. Theres no evidence to 
support that being the case. Im satisfied there has been no information relating to fraud 
concerns reported externally by M&S. Its more likely that the missed payment marker on her 
credit file would have an impact. 
M&S has accepted it made a mistake in not investigating Mrs Ms complaint when it was first 
raised. Its offered £200 compensation for the delay and in recognition of Mrs M needing to 
repeatedly pursue the matter. That seems a fair and reasonable offer to me, properly 
reflecting the frustration Mrs M has felt regarding unnecessary delays. 
Mrs M has said she isnt really interested in compensation and so, whilst she has clearly put 
a lot of time and effort into pursuing the complaint, I see no reason to award a higher 
amount. I leave it for Mrs M to decide whether she wishes to accept that compensation now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman