DRN-4252101
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he called Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) about 
accessing the pension he held with it in June 2020, it gave him misleading information about 
his pension investments. He said this re-assured him at the time. And led to him choosing 
not to take his Tax-Free Cash (TFC). Since then, Mr Hs pension value has reduced.
What happened
Mr Hs employer at the time applied to Scottish Widows in August 2010 to open a Group 
Personal Pension (GPP). Mr H was a member of this GPP. 
Mr Hs employer selected the SW Balanced Approach for Mr Hs pension, which targeted 
buying an annuity at the chosen retirement age. This was a lifestyling arrangement which 
meant that Mr Hs plan would gradually move into a more cautious investment approach 
starting 15 years before his nominated retirement age of 65. But didnt guarantee that the 
fund wouldnt decrease in value.
Scottish Widows returned Mr Hs call on 27 January 2020. It issued him with pension 
information on the same date. Scottish Widows also spoke to Mr H on 2 March 2020 when 
he called it to discuss a letter itd sent him after hed gone past his normal retirement age, 
which stated he hadnt been in touch. 
Mr H called Scottish Widows on 11 June 2020 after checking his plan value online the 
previous day. 
Mr H complained to Scottish Widows on 12 September 2022 as his plan value had 
decreased significantly. He felt he mightve been misinformed about his pension plan during 
the 2020 calls with Scottish Widows. He was confused about why itd thought that the 
lifestyling on his plan would prevent his pension plan from falling in value. 
Scottish Widows issued its first final response letter on 21 September 2022. It didnt think itd 
done anything wrong. It said that lifestyling didnt guarantee that the fund performance 
wouldnt decrease. And that Mr H had the option to switch off lifestyling and change his 
investments at any time. 
Scottish Widows acknowledged Mr Hs concerns about his reduced pension value. But said 
that fund performance should be viewed over a five-to-ten-year period. And that if there was 
an issue with the performance of a certain fund, it would be addressed by the fund manager. 
It also said that investment markets could fluctuate and that due to world events there had 
been increased volatility. It provided Mr H with plan values from 2017 through to 2021, 
showing that the pension had increased in value over that time. 
Scottish Widows said it didnt offer or provide professional advice. And said that if Mr H 
wasnt sure what funds or approach he wanted to take, it recommended he took independent 
professional advice. 
Scottish Widows issued an updated final response letter on 28 October 2022 which upheld 
another part of Mr Hs complaint about being provided with an incorrect telephone number. 
But which didnt change the decision about Mr Hs decreased fund value. 
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. He said hed spoken to Scottish 
Widows about leaving his pension untouched when he reached his normal retirement date, 
as he didnt need the TFC at that point. But he said that when hed spoken to it on 2 March 
2020, the adviser had told him that his pension had moved to low-risk funds and that it would 
be fine to leave. Since then, his pension value had fallen by about a third. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr H had expressed his 
intention to take a lump sum at the start of the June 2020 call with Scottish Widows. He said 
this decision had been caused by a reduction to Mr Hs fund value and his concerns due to 
the pandemic. He felt that if the call handler had simply asked Mr H what he wanted, and 
then transferred him to the correct department, he wouldve accessed his TFC. And the 
remaining funds that werent in low-risk funds wouldve been switched to low risk in line with 
his stated intention.
To put things right, our investigator felt that Scottish Widows should put Mr H as close as 
possible to the position he ought to now be in, if it had done what he felt it shouldve done 
during the June 2020 call. 
Scottish Widows didnt agree with our investigator. It said that Mr H had been provided with 
detailed information about accessing his pension after hed called on 27 January 2020. And 
that hed also been sent further information about accessing his pension online on 16 March 
2020. 
Scottish Widows said that it sent Mr H more detailed information on his pension on 10 June 
2020. It said this consisted of policy information, premium history, list of funds available and 
a fund choice and charges sheet.
Scottish Widows said that at the start of the call on 11 June 2020, the call handler had asked 
Mr H the reason for the call. It said that no advice had been provided during the call, only 
information. And that Mr H had then decided that he wanted to remain invested. It also said 
that the call handler had provided Mr H with the telephone number of the relevant 
department if/when he wanted to claim his pension. But that hed said he would leave it for 
now. It said this was Mr Hs decision and hed been made aware that the value would 
continue to fluctuate whilst it was invested.
Scottish Widows didnt agree that the call handler had provided value judgement and 
opinion. It felt hed only provided factual information. It also said that Mr H couldve called the 
retirement line at any time to start the retirement process, but that he chose not to do so. It 
also said that if hed asked to be transferred to the Retirements department during the June 
2020 call, he wouldve been.
Scottish Widows said that Mr Hs plan was still in force. It also explained that the lifestyling 
approach meant Mr Hs investments had been gradually switched to lower risk funds, such 
as bonds and cash. But that investment performance could still significantly change over 
time, due to unforeseeable events. It said that changes in interest rates or inflation could 
lead to fixed interest investments going up or down. And also noted external world events, 
over which it had no control, which could also negatively impact investment performance. 
Scottish Widows said it couldnt provide advice, or suggest changes to a customers 
investments. 
Our investigator considered Scottish Widows points, but said he felt that the complaint should be upheld. He still considered that the call handler on the June 2020 call had used 
value judgement which had caused Mr H to act differently from what hed intended. He said 
that at the start of the call, and further on in the call, Mr H had stated that hed decided he 
wanted to take his TFC. So he felt he shouldve been transferred in order to do that. 
Our investigator also said that he didnt consider that this was a performance related 
complaint. And noted that Mr H had been told he was in safe funds.
Scottish Widows told this service that the funds Mr H was invested in were the lowest risk 
funds. It gave the split of Mr Hs funds as follows:
SW Cash 23.94%
SW pension protector 76.06%
Scottish Widows said the Pension Protector fund was a low-risk fund. And provided the 
relevant fund factsheets. 
Scottish Widows said it didnt agree with our investigator that its call handler had failed to 
take an instruction from Mr H in the June 2020 call. It felt that Mr H was considering his 
options and was only pretty sure of an intention based on market movements. He didnt 
need any money straight away and he wished to remain invested. It said he was already 
invested in the lowest risk funds offered and was given factual information. It said it was also 
made clear to him that his pension fund value wasnt guaranteed. Scottish Widows felt that 
Mr H changed his mind after learning he was in low-risk funds, but had been made aware his 
pension fund value was subject to fluctuations. 
Scottish Widows also didnt agree with our investigator that Mr H wouldve accessed his TFC 
and moved his remaining funds to lower-risk funds if hed been transferred to its Retirements 
Team on 11 June 2020. It said that team wouldve provided the same or similar information 
to Mr H. In any event, it said it wouldnt transfer a customer to another department without 
first finding out why they were calling. Scottish Widows also said that if Mr H had been 
transferred to the Retirements Team, they wouldve explained the same information  that 
he was in low-risk funds already, as this was factually correct.
Scottish Widows also didnt agree with our investigator that the 11 June 2020 call handler 
had provided value judgement and opinion. It felt he had only provided factual information. It 
said the decision about whether to take his pension was entirely Mr Hs. And he couldve 
called the retirement line at any time to start the retirement process, but chose not to. It also 
said that if hed asked to be transferred to the Retirements department, he wouldve been.
In summary, Scottish Widows said:
The call handler provided correct and factual information only  he was in the lowest 
risk funds of his investment strategy and confirmed he wasnt giving advice.
The call handler made Mr H aware, on more than one occasion, that his pension 
value would still be subject to market ups and downs. And therefore the value wasnt 
guaranteed. Mr H stated that he understood this perfectly. 
The call handler clearly explained to Mr H that he could call at any time to claim his 
pension.
Scottish Widows also said that if Mr H had proceeded with taking his TFC in June 2020, the 
process wouldve been as follows.He wouldve had an initial conversation about his options, and he would have been 
provided with fund information.
It wouldve then booked an appointment to discuss moving his pension to a 
Retirement Account, as his existing pension didnt allow drawdown.
Mr H wouldve had to choose a new investment before his appointment. 
It wouldve paid out the TFC within 10 working days of the appointment. And the 
remainder wouldve been invested in the fund chosen by Mr H.
Our investigator considered Scottish Widows points. But still felt Mr H wouldve taken his 
TFC if the call handler had taken his instruction. He also now felt that Scottish Widows 
should also pay Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Mr H made the following point after receiving our investigators view. He said that whenever 
he contacted Scottish Widows, its answering service always said: you are on hold as all our 
advisers are busy and you will be put through as soon as one becomes available. But in its 
evidence/reports itd referred to these advisers as just call handlers. He said that he felt that 
an adviser at a pension company would have some expertise about pension matters. So he 
was reassured to think that he was talking with experts.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 5 July 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I dont agree with our investigator that Mr H gave 
an instruction to the call handler on 11 June 2020. I also dont agree that if the call handler 
had transferred Mr H to the Retirement team he wouldve accessed his TFC at that time. Or 
changed his investment for the remaining funds. I know my decision will be disappointing to 
Mr A. Ill explain my reasons for it. 
I first considered what was said during the three phone calls Ive been provided with.
Phone calls between Scottish Widows and Mr H in 2020
Ive carefully listened to the following calls between Mr H and Scottish Widows:
-27 January 2020
-2 March 2020
-11 June 2020
I agree with our investigator that there was no misleading or incorrect information during 
either the 27 January 2020 or the 2 March 2020 call. So I wont go into detail about the 
content of those calls. 
I will however note that during the 27 January 2020 call, Mr H asked about drawdown. He 
wanted to know if his remaining funds would remain invested if he withdrew part of his 
pension. He asked: Would the funds continue to grow, I mean I know the balance, if I draw 
something off it would be less than whatever I drew off it but if there was like £100,000 in there is that likely to increase a bit  or I know they can go down as well as up. The call 
handler told Mr H that the remaining funds would still be invested.
The 2 March 2020 call was predominantly about Mr Hs retirement date and his nominated 
beneficiary. Mr H said he wanted to clarify that Scottish Widows had the correct information 
about his plans for his pension. The call handler confirmed that Mr Hs retirement age would 
be changed from age 65 to age 75 and that his funds: would be invested as they were 
before. He said, about his pension: That is what I propose to do  just leave it for now.
Mr H also asked for a current fund value during this call. He said he was concerned about 
the impact of the coronavirus on investments. The call handler provided a value of 
£311,628.66 as of 28 February 2020. Mr H was happy with this. He said: I wouldve thought 
mine wouldve gone down quite a bit. Thats good news. 
Ill now consider the content of the 11 June 2020 call in some detail. To do this, Ive 
produced a transcript of what I consider are the most important parts of the call. Ive 
transcribed almost all of the call as I consider the context is extremely important here. 
Call Handler: What is the reason of your call today?
Mr H: Im pretty sure I want to take the lump sum from my pension. I have spoken to a 
couple of your colleagues recently about it and they said that if I decide, say I decided now, 
that I wanted to take the lump sum from my pension and move the rest into a safer, you 
know, sort of safer funds with Scottish Widows, that they would transfer me to someone to 
speak about it and that I would get what the pension value was at 5pm last night.
The call handler then clarified that Scottish Widows would always use the previous days bid 
price. And confirmed that for as long as the money was invested, even during any claims 
process, nothing was guaranteed. He said: Its not guaranteed, nothing is ever guaranteed 
when it comes to this stuff. So even the value you are looking at right now, by the time your 
claim is set up if the stock markets crash and you lose your value you are going to be getting 
the value. Thats it. At the day of the claim.
The call then continued as follows:
Mr H: Actually (call handler name), thats my point. Stock markets have really gone down 
today and Ive been thinking about taking it and I thoughtso have you got my details on 
screen then, so they are not a live price is that what you are saying?
The call handler completed the security questions at this point. Then the conversation 
continued as follows:
Call Handler: Ive got your details here sir, what did you want them brought up for?
Mr H: First of all, the valuation when I looked today was £317,562. Is that what youve got 
there?
Call Handler: Correct and 14 pence.
Mr H: So if I said to you now that I did want to take the pension, are you saying I would not 
get that exact valuation?
Call Handler: No, no, no I am just making you aware of the fact that, if you think £317,562, if 
you think you will get exactly that figure, that is what I am trying to make you realise. Thats 
not entirely true. So lets say you speak to our retirements team just now OK and they organise a call back with you because they need to have a 40-minute conversation with you 
to understand everything that you want, when you are having that conversation your money 
is still invested, its not that your money is disinvested instantly. Your money is still invested 
up until the claim starts so by the time your claim starts if anything happens around the world 
and stock markets crash, you will lose that money.
Mr H: I understand what you are saying perfectly. I didnt understand it worked like that but 
obviously I am now youve explained it. Thanks for that.
Call Handler: Yeah, yeah thats all I was getting at, so just in case something does happen 
in the stock markets and stuff you would lose a little bit of money there but you are in quite 
safe funds anyway so its not like you are going to lose. Youre in pretty safe funds now. 
Your lifestyling feature has been doing its job.
Mr H: It has been up and down a lot in the last couple of weeks to the tune of like £5,000 
you know but I am surprised it has stayed where it is for now. Today there has been some 
big drops in the stock market, thats what prompted me to make the decision but you are 
making me re-think it now because if its what I described as a live price, where the fund is 
going up and down all the time with the stock market.
Call Handler: Correct. And another important point to point out to yourself is, see how you 
are saying that, that the stock markets crashed quite a lot, thats what made you call us in 
today, well see your funds, there is a lifestyling feature on your policy, and what that does, 
what its job is, it understands how old you are, it understands how close you are to 
retirement and it will move your investments based upon that.
The call handler then explained how lifestyling worked. And said: so see like how stock 
markets have crashed today, because that system has moved your funds into safer and 
safer and safer funds you wont lose as much money because your risk has been minimized 
the closer you get to your retirement age.
Mr H then said: Do you know I am glad I spoke to you. You are explaining this perfectly so 
even I can understand it and I know nothing about pensions. Right, you have made me have 
a re-think now actually and I think, since you, so thats what happens with the pension 
company all the time is it  they are managing it as I get older into safer funds say?
Mr H also said that hed just passed his original retirement age. And that at that time hed 
told Scottish Widows that he would leave his pension untouched for the foreseeable future. 
He said: so I assume, just as youve said now that as it was coming to my retirement date it 
was put in a safe place.
Call Handler: Correct. So see now the funds have all been moved into safer funds because 
the system thought you were retiring. So now all of your funds are in the most safest funds 
OK?
The call handler then asked Mr H when he planned to retire. He said he was already retired 
but didnt yet need his pension money. And: So I think, as youve just told me about it being 
in sort of safer funds for the last few years. I think I will leave it. I am glad I spoke to you 
today actually.
Mr H then said: What I was gonna do today, Im OK to talk to you about this am I?
Call Handler: Yes, I mean Im not giving you any advice Im just pointing out things to you 
that you should know about technically.Mr H: Its good. Lets say its an opinion you know. Well, its more than an opinion. You
know what happens at Scottish Widows better than I do. So, I was gonna take my lump sum, 
which wouldve been around £79,000 and leave the rest  but, I think seeing as you have 
already said it was in a safe place and I dont have to have it right now, I think I am better off 
leaving it with Scottish Widows as it is.
Call Handler: Yes thats fine, if you want to leave it lying there for a few years you certainly 
can do that, that options completely yours.
Mr H: I think I will do that. Yeah, youve taken away some of the panic stations there. Im 
glad I spoke to you. 
Call Handler: You know you have an online account as well where you can keep an eye on 
all this.
Mr H: Yeah, I can keep an eye on it. I registered just a couple of weeks ago so I can get the 
value of it any time I want.
Call Handler: I just wanted to make sure you were aware of that. Youll be able to see the 
funds youre in. If you click on the actual fund, it brings up a fund factsheet, and that will tell 
you exactly what it involves. The call handler then looked at the detail of one of Mr Hs funds 
- the cash fund factsheet, and said: its one of the safest funds you can get.
Mr H: I believe so yes, Ive been reading about this actually. And asked what percentage of 
his fund was invested in cash, but the handler wasnt able to tell him. 
Mr H then said: Just in your opinion, Ive never actually taken any financial advice, Ive not 
done so bad over the years, you know, Ive got a pension and Ive got money, well Ive got 
some put away in equities but thats going up and down drastically. But Ive done all right 
under my own steam if you know what I mean. Just speaking to people like yourself who 
have an opinion anyway and know something about how pensions work you know. So I think 
I will as far as Scottish Widows goes Ill just leave it in for now. Because youve been really 
clear on what youve explained today.
Call Handler: So would you like our retirement teams external number just for the future 
whenever youre looking to call you could just call them directly next time.
Mr H: Yeah, you can do please. The handler then provided Mr H with the number which he 
wrote down and confirmed. He also explained what would happen when Mr H called.
Mr H: So once I ring them is it then done? I have how can I say cast a stone?
Call Handler: Whenever youre looking to get funds from it, Call that number. Theyre the 
ones thatll say OK, you can take TFC, you can put it in a drawdown account, buy an 
annuity. Theyll be the ones thatll tell you all the ins and outs to it like what tax youre going 
get and what the options are. 
Mr H: So will they tell me what my options are? Do I then make the decision to say yes 
right, do this, do that, or could I then say, like I said to you today, no, I think Ill just leave it 
for now? 
Call Handler: It would be totally your option. I mean you can have a chat with them. Theyll 
explain to you all your retirement options. They might even send you an email or a letter to 
go over all the ins and outs. And once youve made your decision then you normally just give us a call back to let us know that youre happy to proceed with this retirement option or that 
retirement option.
Mr H: Yes, I would rather have a chat with somebody first to get my options, you know, be 
guided by someone and then make my decision. Are there like advisers in Scottish Widows 
as well?
Call Handler: We have advisers within Scottish Widows yes, but I dont think theyre the 
type that tell you how to invest. Thatd be a financial adviser youd wanna see.
Mr H: I know its a very difficult area now because people are not allowed to give advice 
now are they?
CH: Exactly.  
Mr H: Right.
Call Handler: We can certainly explain to you your retirement options.
Mr H: Go on then.
The call handler then provided Mr H with his retirement options. At the end of the call Mr H 
thanked the call handler and said: My mind is at rest now. I know things are still going to 
change slightly but when you said the funds as Ive got older had been moved to safer funds 
thats what I needed to hear right now. Im just going to leave everything as it is for now. 
I next considered whether Mr H had given Scottish Widows an instruction during this call.
Did Mr H give Scottish Widows an instruction?
Our investigator felt that Mr H had already decided what he wanted to do with his pension 
when he called Scottish Widows on 11 June 2020. And that the call handler he spoke to that 
day failed to take his instruction. 
Based on listening to the call, Im satisfied that Mr H called Scottish Widows on 11 June 
2020 to discuss his options. And then make his final decision. I say this because at the start 
of the call, Mr H said:
Im pretty sure I want to take the lump sum from my pension. I have spoken to a couple of 
your colleagues recently about it and they said that if I decide, say I decided now,.
Its clear to me from this that Mr H hadnt yet decided what he wanted to do. So he was in no 
position to give Scottish Widows an instruction from the start. Instead, he wanted to gather 
information about his options and then decide what to do next. I say this because, during the 
11 June 2020 call, Mr H said, after the Retirement teams role was explained to him:
Yes, I would rather have a chat with somebody first to get my options, you know, be guided 
by someone and then make my decision.
Im also satisfied that Mr H was fully aware that Scottish Widows wasnt giving him advice, 
and that the decision on what to do with his pension was his alone. I say this because the 
call handler confirmed he wasnt giving Mr H any advice, just letting him know the things he 
needed to know. Mr H agreed. But said he felt he was getting an informed opinion, from 
someone who knew more about pensions than he did. The call handler confirmed that it was 
Mr Hs decision what to do with his pension. He said: Yes thats fine, if you want to leave it lying there for a few years you certainly can do that, that options completely yours.
Mr H then told the call handler that hed never taken any financial advice, but felt hed done 
well over the years despite that. The call handler then explained that Scottish Widows did 
have advisers, but that they werent financial advisers. Mr H said he knew that: people are 
not allowed to give advice now are they?, and the call handler said this was right, but that 
he could explain his retirement options, which Mr H then asked him to do.
I acknowledge that Mr H told this service that he felt hed been speaking to an adviser at a 
pension company, who would have some expertise about pension matters. And that this was 
reassuring at the time. 
But, from what Ive heard during the call, Im satisfied that Mr H was fully aware that he 
wasnt being given any advice. And that the decision he was making was his alone. Im also 
satisfied that Mr H never gave Scottish Widows an explicit instruction. I say this not only 
based on the transcript of the opening part of the 11 June 2020 call, but also because of 
what Mr H has told this service.
Mr H told this service that he wasnt intending on doing anything with his pension fund in 
2020. He said, I was never going to do anything with the money. I was thinking about it. I 
acknowledge that our investigator felt that Mr H had mis-remembered what hed actually said 
during the 11 June 2020 call. But Im not persuaded that this is correct. Based on what I 
heard in the call recording, I take the view that Mr H was trying to get further information 
about his pension so that he could then decide what he wanted to do. 
Although I dont consider that Mr H gave Scottish Widows an instruction, Ive also thought 
about what would most likely have happened if the call handler had treated Mr Hs initial 
statement on the 11 June 2020 as an instruction.
Scottish Widows said that if Mr H had been transferred to the Retirement Team when he 
called it on 11 June 2020, that team wouldve provided the same or similar information to Mr 
H as the call handler had. So he wouldve been told that he was already in low-risk funds. It 
then felt that Mr H wouldve made the same decision that he made having spoken to the call 
handler. And decided not to access his TFC, or move his remaining funds to lower-risk 
funds. 
Our investigator felt that if the call handler had transferred him to the correct department, he 
wouldve accessed his TFC and moved any of his remaining funds into low-risk funds. 
Having thought carefully about both arguments, Im more persuaded that, if Mr H had been 
transferred to the Retirements Team at the start of the call on 11 June 2020, he wouldve 
been given the same or similar information. And he wouldve made the same decision to 
leave his pension untouched. 
I say this because Mr H had no need for his pension money at the time. Scottish Widows 
provided him with correct information about his investments. And then left the decision to 
him. I consider that this is exactly what wouldve happened if Mr H had instead spoken with 
the Retirements Team on 11 June 2020. 
I also note that Scottish Widows made it clear to Mr H that he could claim his pension at any 
point. And explained how to do so. So he couldve decided to take his pension at any point 
after the call on 11 June 2020 if anything happening in the investment markets changed his 
mind. But he didnt do so. 
I next considered whether this is, in fact, a performance-related complaint. Our investigator had felt that Scottish Widows had treated it as such, but didnt agree that it was. 
Is this a performance-related complaint?
When Mr H complained to Scottish Widows on 12 September 2022, he said hed been told in 
2020 that his pension had been moved to safer funds. But he said that he had other equities 
invested elsewhere and none had dropped like this one. So he felt it made no sense. 
I dont agree with our investigator that this isnt, at its heart, a performance-related complaint. 
I say this because Mr H only complained in late 2022. He said he was panicking at this time 
as most peoples investments had gone down, and pensions had been hit particularly hard. 
He said he was: annoyed that I rang up and was told my pension was safe. But it went 
down over 30%. 
Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve complained if there hadnt been a fall in his investment 
fund in late 2022. And Im satisfied that in 2020 he was told that his pension fund would 
remain invested, and therefore subject to market movements, until and unless he made the 
decision to disinvest his fund. The transcript of the 11 June 2020 call shows that the call 
handler told Mr H:
Its not guaranteed, nothing is ever guaranteed when it comes to this stuff. So even the 
value you are looking at right now, by the time your claim is set up if the stock markets crash 
and you lose your value you are going to be getting the value. Thats it. At the day of the 
claim.
The call handler also said:
Your money is still invested up until the claim starts so by the time your claim starts if 
anything happens around the world and stock markets crash, you will lose that money.
And Mr H replied:
I understand what you are saying perfectly.
I acknowledge that Mr Hs complaint is based around what the call handler later told him in 
the call, after hed told Mr H that due to lifestyling, his money was invested in pretty safe 
funds. The call handler said: And another important point to point out to yourself is, see how 
you are saying that, that the stock markets crashed quite a lot, thats what made you call us 
today, well see your funds, there is a lifestyling feature on your policy, and what that does, 
what its job is, it understands how old you are, it understands how close you are to 
retirement and it will move your investments based upon that.
The call handler also said: so see like how stock markets have crashed today, because that 
system has moved your funds into safer and safer and safer funds you wont lose as much 
money because your risk has been minimized the closer you get to your retirement age.
It was at this point  that is, after Mr H said he understood the lifestyling explanation 
perfectly  that he said he was having: a re-think. And later on, Mr H asked the call handler 
to confirm that as hed just passed his initial chosen retirement age, his money had been: 
put in a safe place.
The call handler confirmed this and said: So see now the funds have all been moved into 
safer funds because the system thought you were retiring. So now all of your funds are in 
the most safest funds OK?Mr H then told the call handler that he didnt need his pension money at the time. And that 
he would leave his funds where they were, given they were in: sort of safer funds for the last 
few years.
The call handler noted that Mr H had online access, so he could keep an eye on his funds. 
He also explained how Mr H could use his online access to see which funds he was invested 
in. And explained how he could access the fund factsheets, which would: tell you exactly 
what [the fund] involves. 
The call handler also ensured Mr H had the Retirement teams number so that he could call 
it directly whenever he wanted to consider his options again. He also explained the process 
that team would follow when Mr H did decide to access his pension.
Finally, Mr H thanked the call handler and said: I know things are still going to change 
slightly but when you said the funds as Ive got older had been moved to safer funds thats 
what I needed to hear right now. Im just going to leave everything as it is for now. 
Everything the call handler said to Mr H was factually correct, as his pension funds had been 
gradually moved to lower risk investments as he approached his initial chosen retirement 
date. And as he had reached the end of the lifestyle approach, because hed gone past his 
initial chosen retirement date, he was in the lowest risk funds he could be in under that 
arrangement. Scottish Widows said this was why the call handler had referred to the most 
safest funds.
Subsequent external factors have led to safe funds, like the pension protector fund Mr H 
has been invested in, decreasing in value. Many such funds dont seem to have behaved in 
the way they were set up for due to unexpectedly high and rising interest rates, which has 
seen them fall in value. However, these funds do in fact still serve the purpose they were set 
up for  that of buying an annuity at retirement. 
I say this because, as interest rates have risen, the price of annuities has come down. This 
means that a reduced pension investment can still buy a similar level of annuity at 
retirement. So the call handler was correct to say that Mr H was invested in relatively safe 
funds, given his pension had been set up to buy an annuity. 
Im not persuaded that anything the call handler told Mr H on 11 June 2020 was factually 
incorrect or misleading at the time of the call. Instead, I consider that the call handler gave 
Mr H the information he needed at the time to make an informed decision about his pension 
options. Mr H made the decision to leave things as they were. He didnt need the money at 
the time and was satisfied that his funds were invested relatively safely. He knew there was 
still some risk, and that he could keep track of his funds performance and amend his 
investments, or access his pension, at any time. 
So I cant fairly say that Scottish Widows have done anything wrong. And, while I know this 
will be very disappointing to Mr H, I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
Scottish Widows didnt comment on my provisional decision.
Mr H said he was extremely disappointed with my decision. He made the following points:
He said the reason that he didnt take the 25% TFC was solely due to the adviser at 
Scottish Widows telling him that his pension was in very safe, low risk funds. And that 
lifestyling was doing its job. He felt Scottish Widows shouldnt refer to people as advisers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr H is disappointed with my decision. But Im satisfied that Ive already 
covered the points hes raised in my provisional decision.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman