DRN-2798927
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service that he has received from The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited regarding the administration of his personal pension.
What happened
Mr G has a pension with Prudential that was taken out in 1990. 
Mr G has raised a number of complaints with Prudential over a number of years. He had a 
final decision from our service that addressed a lot of issues that Mr G raised regarding 
Prudentials administration of the pension in question. This decision will not re-visit the 
issues that we have already given answers on.
Mr G has remained unhappy with the confusing explanations that he had from Prudential 
regarding his pension.
Our investigator considered the circumstances relating to Prudentials handling of Mr Gs 
requests for clarity on how he could take his pension. She agreed with Mr G that the 
responses from Prudential had been confusing. By that stage Prudential had increased its 
offer of compensation to £250 for the trouble and upset that Mr G had been caused. Our 
investigator explained why she thought that offer was fair.
Mr G has asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is the role of our service to try to provide quick and informal resolutions to complaints. And 
Im mindful that Mr G has had this complaint ongoing for a long time. All complaints have to 
reach a conclusion. Mr G has already had a final decision from an ombudsman on many of 
the matters that I know he still disagrees with. But it is not practical for our service to revisit 
those things. Ive read everything that has been submitted in this case, as well as everything 
I consider relevant from the previous case. But our investigator has explained to Mr G that 
this complaint only relates to the issue of how Prudential have handled his enquiries about 
taking his benefits. And I will limit my decision to that.
Mr G has been enquiring of Prudential, since at least 2019, about how he could take benefits 
from his pension fund. His pension is set up in such a way that it is made up of a number of 
Retirement Arrangements. These work as segments and the issue of how these benefits 
could be taken was addressed for Mr G in the earlier final decision. The policy was set up at 
a time when the only way that benefits could be taken was to use the Pension Fund to 
purchase an annuity or take a pension commencement lump sum and an annuity with the 
rest of the segment(s).
The policy terms and conditions that Mr G has sent us confirm this. I think that this position 
has now been explained to Mr G by Prudential. To be clear, I think that it was stated plainly 
in the correspondence that Mr G referred to receiving in December 2019. But I agree that it 
wasnt made very clear to Mr G at the first time of asking. 
Prudential have acknowledged its failings. Its provided unclear messaging to Mr G, which 
had the effect of making it harder for him to take his pension.
But Mr G did have the option of advice. This was available through Prudential but would 
have come at a cost that Mr G was reluctant to pay. I think it ought also to have been clear 
to Mr G that he could have also sought independent financial advice too, which would have 
opened up a range of other options to take his pension benefits. Which I dont think was 
unreasonable. And he could have opted to move his pension to another provider, perhaps 
without needing advice at all. Which could have afforded him the full flexibility brought in by 
Pension Freedoms. So I dont think that the mistakes that Prudential made initially in 
understanding the terms of his pension product, have resulted in his not taking his pension 
benefits since December 2019.
He has undoubtedly been caused inconvenience by the service he received from Prudential 
though. And I agree that Prudential should pay Mr G £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience that it caused.
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay Mr G £250 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman