DRN-3420951
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has unfairly 
declined their claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
timeshare product they were sold.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr and Mrs B purchased a timeshare product from a timeshare provider 
(Company A) while on holiday at a resort in Mexico. They bought the timeshare after 
attending a welcome talk which was advertised as a short introduction meeting. This meeting 
lasted several hours with Mr and Mrs B agreeing to buy the timeshare at the end of the 
meeting.
The timeshare cost $12,500. Mr and Mrs B paid $3,125 with Mr Bs Barclaycard and the 
remainder of the timeshare was to be paid over 60 months at $200 per month with these 
payments to be debited from the credit card each month.
In August 2018 with the assistance of a representative they complained to Barclaycard about 
the sale and made a claim under s.75 of the CCA. They didnt think Company A treated 
them fairly during the sale, making a number of representations which they feel were untrue. 
This included being told:
They could use their existing timeshare as a deposit for the new one.
It was indicated the monthly payments would only be taken for 24 months (two 
years). The ongoing commitment of $200 per month for 60 months is unaffordable.
There are no maintenance fees and theyd be charged a set usage fee of $850 for 
the two weeks they purchased.
The accommodation could be sold at a reduced-price allowing friends and family to 
have affordable holidays. And if used, would cover the cost of the venture by paying 
off the loan.
Mr and Mrs B also said that they only signed the agreement after being at the meeting for 
many hours and that they could not take any further persuasion, explanation or exchange. 
They felt theyd made a mistake after making the purchase and wanted to change their 
minds but due to the duration of their trip and being delayed on their return home, they were 
unable to cancel within the timeframe provided in the contract. 
Barclaycard paid Mr and Mrs B £75 for failing to respond to the s.75 claim when it was first 
raised. But is said it didnt believe Mr and Mrs B had a valid claim under s.75 of the CCA. 
Our investigator looked at their complaint. She didnt think there was anything to show 
Company A said Mr and Mrs Bs existing timeshare would be used as a deposit for the new 
one. She also thought the paperwork made it clear that the payments would be taken over a 
period of 60 months. 
Our investigator also said that we know timeshares are often sold during long sales 
meetings with the sales agents being trained to focus on the positives of the timeshare. This 
makes it difficult for people to say no, but she didnt think this meant Mr and Mrs B were 
unable to do so. So while she acknowledged the sale was likely pressured, she didnt think 
this had any impact on the claim decision and whether this was unfair. Or that Mr and Mrs B 
were unable to say no.
Overall, she didnt see anything to show that Barclaycard had acted unfairly when making its 
decision to decline the claim under s.75 of the CCA.
She also thought about what Mr and Mrs B had said about the timeshare being unaffordable. 
But she didnt believe Mr and Mrs B had demonstrated that the continuing payment was 
unaffordable at the time of sale and because of this, didnt think Barclaycard needed to do 
anything else in relation to this aspect of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigator so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B, but Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that the decision made on their s.75 claim under the CCA was 
unfair. Within their complaint points on this they have made several accusations about the 
pressure applied during the sale. Theyve not made a claim with Barclaycard under s.140A 
of the CCA in relation to this, nor has Barclaycard provided a response to this claim. 
This case had two assessments by investigators before being passed to me for decision, the 
first considered s.140A but the second did not as they didnt believe a claim for this had 
been made. So for clarity, Ive considered only whether Barclaycard has acted fairly with the 
claim decision made on the s.75 CCA claim. If Mr and Mrs B wish to make a claim under any 
other provision, this would need to be raised directly with Barclaycard in the first instance.
Mr and Mrs B said throughout the sales process they explained to the sales staff that they 
had an existing timeshare they were very happy with and didnt need another. And from what 
theyve said, they were clear they didnt want this one. They agreed to the purchase as they 
felt it was the only way to bring the sale process to an end after being in the room for many 
hours. 
When Mr and Mrs B returned home and reviewed the paperwork they say they didnt 
understand what theyd purchased. At this point they couldnt cancel the agreement as they 
werent within the timeframe permitted by the contract to allow this. I understand why Mr and 
Mrs B are unhappy that they have a timeshare that they believed from the outset was 
unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs B have said a number of misrepresentations were made during the sale which 
induced them to purchase the timeshare from Company A. Ive considered these in turn 
below.Did Company A misrepresent that Mr and Mrs Bs existing timeshare could be used in 
lieu of the deposit and the ongoing monthly fee of $200 would only be taken for 24 
months?
I appreciate from the information provided, that Mr and Mrs B spent a number of hours with 
the sales staff of Company A. Information was presented to them a number of times by 
different people and in different ways. But Ive reviewed the paperwork provided at the time 
of the sale and I cant see that it supports what Mr and Mrs B say was said. 
The deposit for the timeshare with Company A was paid for with Mr Bs credit card  while it 
isnt stated, I would assume Mr B provided these details during the sale. The amount paid on 
the credit card is detailed together with the remaining balance of the timeshare agreement 
and the number of monthly repayments to cover this. It is clear the repayment period was 60 
months and there is no mention of the existing timeshare being used as a payment towards 
this. So even if a shorter repayment period was discussed, with this being supplemented by 
Mr and Mrs Bs existing timeshare as a trade in, this isnt what the paperwork shows Mr and 
Mrs B purchased at the time.
Overall, Ive not seen anything which persuades me that the timeshare was presented as 
having a repayment period of 24 months or that Mr and Mrs Bs existing timeshare was to be 
used as their deposit.
Were the maintenance and usage fees misrepresented?
Mr and Mrs B have said they were told the maintenance fee would not be charged and that 
theyd only need to pay $850 in total to use both of their weeks each time they used the 
timeshare. 
Having looked at the contract this explains that there is no maintenance fee but that the 
usage fee would be charged each time the accommodation is used. The contract says:
current usage fee per week : $850
The contract also explains that the cost of the usage fee will increase yearly in line with US 
inflation rates. Mr and Mrs B may have believed theyd only need to pay $850 to use both 
the weeks they had access to each year and that this fee was fixed, but I think the contract is 
clear this isnt the case.
Did Company A misrepresent that Mr and Mrs B could sell their week to family and 
friends?
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they could sell their week at a reduced price to family. The 
contract explains private rentals are permitted as a private transaction . Company A would 
not organise this on behalf of Mr and Mrs B. If they decide to sell/rent a week to their friends 
or family they have the ability to do this and I cannot agree Company A made a 
misrepresentation on this point based on what Ive been provided with. 
If used, this option could supplement what Mr and Mrs B pay for their timeshare. I so dont 
think its fair to say the representations made on this were untrue. Was there a breach of contract?
Mr and Mrs B say there was a breach of contract that Barclaycard can be responsible for 
under s.75 CCA. Theyve pointed to a number regulations they say were breached. In 
particular, that the withdrawal period begins on the start date and ends on the date which is 
14 days after the start date and that consideration cannot be accepted from the consumer 
before the end of the withdrawal period. And Mr and Mrs B were pressured into taking out 
the timeshare with Company A.
Our investigator explained that she didnt think there was excessive pressure applied to the 
point that Mr and Mrs B didnt have a choice to take the timeshare. And even if I did think 
there was a pressured sale or other breaches of the regulations pointed out, I dont think 
Barclaycard would need to do anything else. I say this because those problems wouldnt be 
a breach of contract as is required under s.75 of the CCA, so I dont think Barclaycard would 
be responsible under that provision.
Ultimately, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate that Barclaycard has made an unfair 
claims decision when turning down Mr and Mrs Bs claim under s.75 of the CCA.
This service can consider complaints about affordability. But based on what Ive been 
provided with, Ive not seen anything that demonstrates at the time of the sale, Mr and Mrs B 
were unable to afford the timeshare and its ongoing commitments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman