DRN-1880764
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Silver packaged bank 
account in 2007. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already and they did not think that the 
Silver account was mis-sold. Mr J did not agree with this and therefore this complaint was 
passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mr J. Id like to explain why I think thats the case. 
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr J was given a fair choice to take out the Silver account. 
I can see that Mr J had held a free account for a number of years with Lloyds prior to this 
upgrade, so I think that he would have been reasonably aware that Lloyds did provide free 
accounts and they were an option for him. Mr J has said that he was told that fee-free 
accounts were no longer available to him, but Im not sure why he wouldve believed that 
was the case, especially considering that he held a fee-free joint account prior to and after 
the upgrade.
Mr Js has also said that he took out the account in order to improve his credit score. But I 
cant see any declined applications for credit prior to the upgrade, so I cant see why he 
would think that his credit score needed improving. And while I can see he did take out a 
loan, that was not for a few months after the Silver account had been sold to him. So taking 
everything into consideration I do not think that its likely that this was the reason he took out 
the account. Overall, I think that Mr J had a fair choice when he took out the account and he 
agreed to it as something about the account appealed to him.
Lloyds and Mr J have said that the Silver account was recommended to Mr J. Due to this 
Lloyds had to ensure that the account was right for him. In this instance the major benefits 
that the account came with were European travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile 
phone insurance. Mr J registered a mobile handset and I can see that he did travel and did 
drive. Mr J said that he had his own cover for travel insurance and breakdown cover but I 
cant see any reason why he could not have chosen to use the benefits that came with 
account and cancel his own cover if he wished to do so. Therefore, I dont think that Lloyds 
recommendation was inappropriate.
Mr J says that the benefits of the account were not explained to him. But I think that major 
benefits wouldve been highlighted during the sale. After all, Lloyds wouldve wanted to make 
the account seem appealing to persuade Mr J to agree to an upgrade, which I believe he 
knew he did not have to agree to. 
I accept that Mr J may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cannot see anything specific that he was not told that I think 
wouldve altered his decision to take out the account. 
Mr J may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted from the account as 
much he had hoped and expected when he initially took it out. And given what he may have 
read and heard about packaged accounts, I can understand why he might believe this 
account was mis-sold. But I dont think he was misled into taking it. So I want to reassure Mr 
J that having looked at everything provided and thought about what hes said, but I dont 
think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman