DRN-3372151
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was given unsuitable advice by a Registered Individual (Ill refer 
to him as Mr S) of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to switch her existing 
pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and make investments in an unlisted 
company  Lightstep Limited. She also says that she was given advice to disinvest funds 
from an Individual Savings Account (ISA) to make a direct investment in Lightstep.
Mrs R says Mr S told her the investment was low risk and would give a very good return. 
Mrs R says the investment has now failed. She believes she should never have been 
advised to switch from her existing pension and invest in shares of Lightstep as this was 
an unsuitable high risk investment. She also says her pension fund was small and 
therefore not suitable for a SIPP in any event.
What happened
Mrs R brought her complaint to us together with her husband (Mr R) who also says that Mr 
S advised him to open a SIPP and invest in unlisted companies. For reasons Ill explain 
later in this decision, the complaints have been separated. This decision deals only with 
Mrs Rs complaint.
This complaint relates to events in 2009. Mrs R says she was referred to Mr S by a family 
member. At this time Mr S was a registered individual of Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited which was called Positive Solutions at the time. For ease, I will refer to 
Positive Solutions in this decision rather than Quilter. Mr S was listed on the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) Register as holding the CF30 controlled function at Positive 
Solutions.
Mr S presented a business card to Mrs R and her husband (which Mrs R has provided 
us with a copy of) which showed he was a Positive Solutions adviser.
Mrs R says she was advised to transfer her existing personal pensions into a SIPP and 
then to make an investment in an unlisted company  Lightstep. Lightstep went into 
liquidation in August 2016.
The SIPP was opened in November 2009. The SIPP application is dated 23 October 
2009. Mr Ss details were recorded in the Financial Advisor section of the application 
form, including Positive Solutions FSA number and Mr Ss Positive Solutions email 
address.
After Mrs Rs existing pensions were transferred to the SIPP, a total of £24,000 was 
invested in Lightstep in November 2009. Mr S wrote to the SIPP operator on 18 November 
2009 instructing it to make this investment for Mrs R. Mrs R also made regular ongoing 
contributions to the SIPP in the years that followed. But these appear to have not been 
invested in Lightstep and remained as cash held in the SIPP.
We dont have a lot of information about the ISA investment. But it appears that a 
disinvestment instruction was sent to the ISA operator on 2 November 2009. Mrs R has 
also provided a Lightstep share certificate dated December 2009 evidencing her 
purchase of 40 shares.
At the time of the events subject to complaint the business model followed by Positive 
Solutions was that it was an independent financial adviser firm authorised by the FSA, 
which gave advice through registered individuals. The registered individuals were self-
employed agents of Positive Solutions, not employees. Nor were the registered 
individuals appointed representatives under s.39 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA).
Mrs R submitted her complaint to Positive Solutions on 4 July 2017 and filled out a 
complaint questionnaire shortly afterwards. Positive Solutions responded on 25 August 
2017. It said that Mrs R had failed to submit her complaint within six years of the advice or 
within three years of when she ought reasonably to have realised she had cause to 
complain. As such, Positive Solutions said it would not investigate matters further in its 
final response letter to Mrs R.
Unhappy with Positive Solutions response, Mrs R referred her complaint to this Service. 
One of our investigators looked into things and concluded that we couldnt deal with the 
complaint for another reason. He noted that Positive Solutions had issued its response to 
Mrs R on 25 August 2017 and that the complaint wasnt referred to this Service until 30 
May 2018  well over six months later. This, he said, is outside of the timescales allowed 
under our rules.
Mrs R then asked me to reconsider this issue.
I initially issued a decision to Positive Solutions (but not Mrs R) explaining why I agreed 
with the investigator that the complaint had been made outside of the six month time limit. 
But I explained to Positive Solutions later that day that I had overlooked an important 
matter relating to the content of the final response letter and did not feel that the letter 
dated 25 August 2017 met the requirements under our rules to start the six month time 
limit. I informed the parties that I would revisit matters.
I then issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2022. I said that:
The complaints brought by Mrs R and Mr R should be treated as seperate 
complaints.
The final response letter issued by Positive Solutions didnt meet the requirements 
under our rules and therefore Mrs Rs complaint was not made more than six 
months after a valid final response letter.
Mrs R had also made the complaint within the three years of when she ought 
reasonably to have known she had cause for complaint. 
So, our time limits for considering the complaint had been met.
Mr S had likely acted without actual authority under the registered individual 
agreement he had with Positive Solutions in advising Mrs R about the pension 
switch and investments in Lightstep.
However, I was satisfied that Positive Solutions had accepted responsibility for the 
acts being complained about by way of the common law principle of apparent 
authority.
So the complaint was one that we could consider against Positive Solutions.The advice given to Mrs R about the pension switch and investments in Lightstep 
was unsuitable. So Positive Solutions should pay Mrs R coompensation for her 
losses.
Mrs R had nothing further to add. But Positive Solutions didnt agree with my decision. It 
said:
There was no basis to seperate the complaints made by Mrs R and Mr R. The 
complaint had been brought by them to Positive Solutions as a joint complaint.
I had relied on a technicality to say that the final response letter did not meet the 
rules and this was unfair.
The complaint was still made too late as Mrs R complained more than three years 
after she ought reasonably to have realised she had cause to complain. But no 
further arguments were raised about this.
The complaint related to an investment in shares. Positive Solutions had no 
regulatory permissions to advise on shares and so Mr S had clearly acted without 
Positive Solutions authority in this case.
My findings on jurisdiction
As a preliminary matter, although the complaints were set out in joint letters to Positive 
Solutions and to our service, I remain of the view that Mrs Rs complaint is a seperate 
complaint to that of her husband Mr R. My reasons are as follows:
Mrs Rs complaint relates to her own pension and a further separate direct 
investment in Lightstep. Mr Rs complaint relates to his own pension. So the 
complaints relate to different funds.
The switch of Mrs Rs pension took place after her SIPP application in October 2009. 
Mr Rs pension switch took place after his SIPP application December 2008. So the 
events took place at different times.
When they brought their complaints to us, Mrs R and Mr R made clear that they were 
bringing separate complaints.
I have looked at all the evidence and submissions to decide whether this is a complaint we 
have jurisdiction to consider. I must decide this on the basis of our jurisdiction rules (referred 
to as the DISP rules), including the relevant law they are based on or incorporate, and the 
relevant facts of the complaint which I must decide on the balance of probability when in 
dispute.
I cant decide jurisdiction issues on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. That is the basis on which the merits of a complaint is 
determined if we have jurisdiction to consider it.
DISP 2.8 says:
The ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) More than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complaint its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication, or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of: or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint: unless the complainant referred the complaint to the 
respondent or to the ombudsman within that period and has a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been 
received.
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limits in DISP2.8.2 R ...was as a result of exceptional circumstances:
Positive Solutions has said that the complaint should be time barred under both limbs of 
the rule. Ill deal with each limb in turn.
Was the complaint made too late under the first limb (the 6 month rule)?
I dont agree that the complaint was made more than 6 months after a final response 
letter. Thats because the letter issued to Mrs R on 25 August 2017 did not meet the 
requirements under DISP.
DISP 1.6.2R defines a final response as follows:
(1) a 'final response', being a written response from the respondent which:
(a) accepts the complaint and, where appropriate, offers redress or remedial 
action: or
(b) offers redress or remedial action without accepting the complaint: or
(c) rejects the complaint and gives reasons for 
doing so: and which:
(d) encloses a copy of the Financial Ombudsman Service's standard 
explanatory leaflet:
(da) provides the website address of the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(e) informs the complainant that if he remains dissatisfied with the respondent's 
response, he may now refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service: and
(f) indicates whether or not the respondent consents to waive the relevant time 
limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP2.8.7 R (Was the complaint referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in time?) by including the appropriate wording 
set out in DISP 1 Annex 3R....
Positive Solutions did not provide the website address of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service when it issued the letter dated 25 August 2017. Positive Solutions may deem this 
to be atechnicality, but it is a requirement under our rules. As such, the final response to 
Mrs R did not start the six month time limit under limb (1) above. 
Therefore, my decision is that Mrs R did not refer her complaint to us too late under that 
provision.
Was the complaint made too late under the second limb (the six and three year rule)?As explained above, Mrs R needs to have made her complaint within:
Six years of the matter complained about; or (if later)
Three years of when she became aware, or ought reasonably to have 
become aware, that she had cause for complaint.
As set out above, it seems the advice was given in 2009. And the complaint wasnt 
referred to Positive Solutions until 4 July 2017. This means the complaint is outside the 
first part of the time limit  i.e. it was made more than six years after the events 
complained about.
The issue for me to decide is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside 
the second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after 
Mrs R knew, or ought reasonably to have known, she had cause to complain. Because 
the complaint was made on 4 July 2017, the question becomes whether she knew, or 
ought to have known, she had cause to complain before 4 July 2014.
Positive Solutions says that Mrs Rs complaint is that the high risk investment in 
Lightstep was unsuitable as she liked safer investments. These were the words Mrs R 
had used in her complaint. So it says:
If you [Mrs R] did not appreciate the risks of the recommended investment at the 
point of sale, then it is fair to assume that you should have been aware that there 
was cause for concern on receipt of the annual statements sent directly to you 
from the provider from at least 2013 onwards In other words, you would have 
been clearly aware of the value of your investments and the effect this had on the 
overall value of your pension funds (even if you had not been aware of this at any 
other point from inception).
We consider that any significant decrease in value should have alerted any 
reasonable investor that liked safer investments" that there was a problem. 
Therefore, at this time (more than 3 years ago), you should have realised you 
had cause to complain.
At the point it made this argument, it doesnt appear that Positive Solutions had seen 
any of the SIPP statements. But our service has requested and received statements 
from the SIPP operator and other correspondence sent to Mrs R. This shows:
Mrs Rs SIPP was opened in November 2009 after around £26,000 was 
transferred from her previous schemes.
The investment in Lightstep of £24,000 was made a short time later. Mrs R also 
paid monthly premiums into the SIPP until June 2018  but these were not 
invested in Lightstep.
The SIPP was valued at £25,412 in in November 2010.
The SIPP was valued at £26,781 in November 2011.
The SIPP was valued at £28,131 in October 2012.
The SIPP was valued at £29,464 in October 2013.
The SIPP was valued at £30,789 in October 2014.
The SIPP was valued at £32,111 in October 2015.
The SIPP was valued at £33,424 in October 2016.
The SIPP was valued at £35,521 in October 2017.The SIPP was valued at £36,252 in October 2018.
The SIPP was valued at £35,773 in October 2019.
The SIPP was valued at £11,285 in October 2020.
The statements weve been provided dont breakdown the SIPP holdings into investments 
and cash. But its clear that throughout the years until 2020, the SIPP operator valued the 
Lightstep investment at cost price  £24,000 with the increase in the pension value being 
caused by the cash contributions Mrs R was making. I havent seen any correspondence 
from the SIPP operator to Mrs R that would lead her to believe that there were problems 
with the Lightstep investment before 4 July 2014.
It appears that Mrs R complained to Positive Solutions in 2017 after hearing about other 
complaints made about the same advice and investment. Having done so, based on 
what Ive seen, she did not breach any of our time limits as I dont think she ought 
reasonably to have known about cause for complaint more than three years before this.
So, my decision is that this complaint has been brought within our time limits.
Is Positive Solutions responsible for the complaint?
As explained above, Mrs Rs complaint is about advice she says was given to her by Mr S 
to switch her pension to a SIPP to invest in Lightstep and a further direct investment in 
Lightstep of £4,000. 
Positive Solutions has said that it isnt responsible for acts which it did not authorise in its 
contractual arrangements with those registered individuals. So, Ive given consideration to 
the contract that Positive Solutions had with Mr S. 
We can consider a complaint under its compulsory jurisdiction if that complaint relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including 
regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R). Positive Solutions (Quilter) is a firm under our rules.
As DISP 2.3.3G explains, complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect 
of activities for which the firm  is responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So there are two further issues to be determined before I can decide whether this 
complaint can be considered against Positive Solutions under our compulsory 
jurisdiction:
1. Were the acts about which Mrs R complains done in the carrying on of a 
regulated activity?
2. Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions responsible for those acts?
Were the acts about which Mrs R complains done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
A personal pension is an investment specified in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO). 
So advice to switch a personal pension to a SIPP is regulated investment advice as per 
Article 53 of the RAO. Shares are also specified investments. So advice to invest in the 
shares is also regulated investment advice. And arranging deals in the personal 
pensions, SIPP and shares is regulated as per Article 25 of the RAO.
I am satisfied Mr S advised Mrs R to switch her existing personal pensions into a SIPP, 
to invest in the shares Lightstep, and made arrangements for these things to happen.
I acknowledge there is not the sort of documentation you might generally expect to 
see where advice has been given, such as a suitability report. However, it doesnt 
follow that advice was not given.
It is Mrs Rs recollection that she was advised by Mr S. And I think that recollection is 
plausible. Mrs R had little investment experience, and I think it unlikely that she would have thought of switching her existing pension to invest in unlisted shares unless the idea 
was put to her.
Mr S was also named as the financial advisor on the SIPP application form, was involved 
in correspondence with Mrs Rs previous pension about the disinvestment of funds and 
he wrote to the SIPP operator in November 2009 giving instructions for the investment in 
Lightstep.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Mr S carried out the regulated activities 
of advising on and making arrangements for Mrs R to buy or sell or subscribe for a 
security or relevant investment in connection with the switch to the SIPP and investment 
of pension funds into Lightstep.
The issue of the direct investment using funds previously held in an ISA is more difficult 
as there is so little evidence available from the time. As set out above, Mrs R has 
provided a share certificate which shows she purchased 40 Lightstep shares (worth 
£4,000) in December 2009. And I think its likely that she did use funds previously held 
in an ISA to fund this as the ISA operator has sent us a copy of a fax from Mrs R asking 
it to send her funds in November 2009.
The fax to the ISA operator was from Mrs R  not Mr S - which is different to the evidence 
Ive highlighted above showing Mr Ss clear involvement in the pension investment. But I 
have to balance that with the fact that the investment with the former ISA funds occurred 
at a similar time to the pension investment. In the absence of any contrary evidence, I 
think its likely that the investment with the former ISA funds was part and parcel of the 
advice given by Mr S. Put another way  I dont think its more likely that Mrs R would 
have decided to make this investment without Mr S recommending that course of action to 
her.
So, Im also satisfied that Mr S carried out the regulated activities of advising Mrs R to buy 
or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment in connection with the purchase of
£4,000 of shares into Lightstep using funds previously held in Mrs Rs ISA.
Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions, responsible for those acts?
In looking at this question, I first need to consider the fact that Mr S was not an employee 
of Positive Solutions  he was its agent and had an agency agreement with Positive 
Solutions to be one of its RIs. This meant that Positive Solutions authorised Mr S to carry 
out certain regulated acts on its behalf. The agency agreement was non-exclusive and 
did not prevent Mr S acting independently or for another firm at the same time. So was Mr 
S purporting to act as an agent of Positive Solutions when giving the advice and making 
the arrangements?
I think he was because:
Mr S wrote to and received correspondence from Mrs Rs ceding scheme 
as a Positive Solutions adviser.
Mr Ss details with Positive Solutions authorisation number appears on the 
SIPP application form.
Mr S sent the SIPP operator a letter on Positive Solutions headed paper 
with instructions for the Lightstep investment.
Mr S presented Mrs R with Positive Solutions business card.
I am also satisfied that Mr S would have also given the advice about the direct investment 
in Lightstep advice as a Positive Solutions registered individual  again I think it was likely 
part and parcel of the pension advice in this respect. I dont think its likely that he would 
have clearly given advice about the pensions arrangements using his Positive Solutions details but then changed tack to give advice about the investment with ISA funds in a 
personal capacity.
But that is not the end of the matter. Relationships like the one between Positive Solutions 
and Mr S require an analysis of agency law. Agency is where one party (the principal  
here Positive Solutions) allows another party (the agent  here Mr S) to act on its behalf in 
such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. An agent may have actual 
authority, where the principal has expressly or impliedly given its assent to the agent that 
it may act on its behalf. Or the agent may have apparent authority, where the principal 
has made a representation to a third party that the agent has authority to act on its behalf 
and the third party has relied on this representation.
There is an express agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr S. But the agreement 
sets out that Mr S must account to Positive Solutions for all business and only advise on 
investments that it had pre-approved. There is also a general point in agency of this type 
that the agent is required to act in the principals best interests.
After my provisional decision, Positive Solutions also said that its regulatory permissions 
didnt allow it to advise on share investments at the time. So it says that it couldnt possibly 
have authorised Mr S to give the advice given to Mrs R here. 
Although I cant be certain about what the permissions were in 2009, I can see that 
Positive Solutions (Quilters) current permissions on the regulators register do in fact 
permit advice on shares.
But regardless of whether or not advice on shares was permitted, my view is that Mr S 
didnt comply fully with the agreement he had with Positive Solutions. The SIPP operator 
was possibly on Positive Solutions list of approved investments, but Lightstep was not. It 
doesnt appear that Mr S notified Positive Solutions about what he was doing either. So I 
think its likely that Mr S was not acting in accordance with the actual authority he had 
been given. So, I cant currently conclude that Positive Solutions accepted responsibility 
for the acts complained about by Mr S by way of actual authority.
However, there is also agency based on apparent authority. The essence of apparent 
authority is not concerned with what was actually agreed between the parties (for 
example by way of the agency agreement), but rather, how the relationship between 
those parties appeared to third parties. In this complaint, Im concerned with how the 
relationship appeared to Mrs R.
Apparent authority arises when the principal represents to third parties through words or 
conduct that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and the third party reasonably 
relies upon that representation. The case law makes it clear that whether a claimant has 
relied on a representation is dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. So 
here, I must consider whether, on the facts of this individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mrs R that Mr S had Positive 
Solutions authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities she now 
complains about; and
Mrs R reasonably relied on that representation in entering into the 
transactions she now complains about.
Did Positive Solutions represent to Mrs R that Mr S had the relevant authority?
I think Positive Solutions placed Mr S in a position which would, in the outside world, 
generally be regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mrs R complains about. I 
say this for the following reasons.Mr S advised Mrs R, and arranged for Mrs R, to switch her pensions to a SIPP, and 
make the investment. That is also the case the investment made using funds 
previously invested in the ISA. These activities were provided for in Positive Solutions 
procedures. None of these activities were in themselves novel or exceptional or 
unexpected for an IFA firm. These are activities that fall within the class of activities 
that IFAs are usually authorised to do.
Any restrictions on the authority to give certain types advice would not have been visible 
to Mrs R. So for example he would not know that Mrs R should only recommend 
approved investments, and should present the advice in certain ways.
Positive Solutions authorised Mr S to give investment advice on its behalf. Positive 
Solutions arranged for Mr S to appear on the FSA register in respect of Positive Solutions. 
And Mr S was approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the 
disputed advice.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent financial adviser that gave advice 
and offered products from the whole of the market after assessing a clients needs. No 
information was provided to clients or potential clients about the agent being authorised 
in relation to approved products only.
Positive Solutions provided Mr S with Positive Solutions business stationery. 
Furthermore, Mrs R was provided with a business card and a Positive Solutions email 
address.
Positive Solutions name and FSA details were used to set up the SIPP. Whilst it is my 
understanding that Mr S completed these forms (or at least submitted the completed 
forms to the SIPP operator)  not Positive Solutions  it was Positive Solutions that had 
put him in the position to do this.
It was also in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mrs R, to 
understand that it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I 
am satisfied that Positive Solutions intended Mrs R to act on its representation that Mr S 
was its financial adviser. I do not see how Positive Solutions could have carried out its 
business activities at all if the general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr 
S as having authority to give investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions.
Positive Solutions has now said that at the time of the events it didnt have permissions to 
give advice on shares and that this should be taken account. I cant be sure what the 
permissions were at the time, but currently the regulators register does show permission 
for Positive Solutions to give advice on shares. But whether or not the register showed the 
permissions to advise on shares or not, I would not expect an ordinary consumer to 
undertake an analysis of the register to determine precisely what Positive Solutions agent 
was allowed to do as an investment adviser. And of course this complaint involves more 
than just shares  it also involves a pension and an ISA. So, Im not persuaded this 
argument diminishes the representations Ive set out above.
Did Mrs R rely on Positive Solutions representation?
Mr S advised Mrs R to set up a SIPP and to switch her existing personal pensions to it. Mr 
S also advised on the merits of buying the shares within the SIPP and a direct investment 
using funds previously held in the ISA. Mrs R has said Mr S presented himself as a 
Positive Solutions adviser when he gave that advice.
The SIPP application was completed with Mr S referred to as acting for Positive 
Solutions and the correspondence relating to the switch from the previous scheme was 
conducted using his Positive Solutions details.
In these circumstances, it was reasonable for Mrs R to think that she was getting financial 
advice from someone who was authorised to give such advice. Mr S wasnt regulated to give advice on his own behalf, and the FSA register showed that he was only allowed to 
give such advice on Positive Solutions behalf.
I also think that it is very unlikely Mrs R would have followed Mr Ss advice had she 
been aware he didnt have the authority to act.
It is the case Mr S did not confirm the advice in a suitability report or similar, making it 
clear the advice was from Positive Solutions. It is however my view that the absence of 
these documents does not clearly establish the capacity in which the advice was given.
I cant see that there is evidence that Mrs R knew or should reasonably have known 
that Mr S was not acting for Positive Solutions  in accordance with its general 
representation that Mr S had its authority to act for it as it financial adviser - in every 
respect in relation to the setting up of the SIPP and the investments in the shares.
In my view the evidence does indicate that Mrs R proceeded on the basis that Mr S 
was acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with authority from 
Positive Solutions so to act.
So, overall, my view is that this is a complaint that has been brought in time and 
Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts being complained about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Positive solutions has not disputed the findings on merits I made in my provisional 
decision. And having looked at everything again, I still consider Mrs R was given 
unsuitable advice  and that if she had been given suitable advice, she would have not 
switched her existing arrangements in respect of her pensions and ISA.
At the time of advice Mrs R had a modest income, no other pensions other than the ones 
involved here, and no other savings. Mrs R could not therefore afford to take significant 
risk with her pension provision. She also had no investment experience other than 
having an ISA.
The share investments Mrs R was advised to make in her SIPP was in an unlisted 
company with a limited track record  so it was high risk and speculative. There was a 
possibility it would fail, and her investment would be lost. It was clearly not a suitable 
home for the entire pension of an inexperienced investor with a modest income and no 
other savings. So the advice that she move her existing pensions to a SIPP and make 
this investment was clearly unsuitable. And I cant see any basis to say that the 
investment was suitable for Mrs R to invest £4,000 from her ISA either.
I therefore think Mr S should have concluded the switches to the SIPP and to invest in the 
shares were not suitable  nor was it suitable for Mrs R to use her ISA funds for this 
purpose either. So it was not therefore fair and reasonable for Mr S to advise Mrs R to 
make the switches and investments.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs R should be put as closely as possible into the position she 
would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
What should Positive Solutions do?
Positive Solutions should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the position Mrs R would be in if she had not switched from her existing pensions 
and ISA investment. In summary, Positive Solutions should:
In respect of the SIPP investment:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs R has suffered as a result of making the investments.
2. Pay compensation for the loss into Mrs Rs pension in respect of her pension 
loss. If that is not possible pay compensation for the loss to Mrs R direct. In either 
case the payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
3. Pay Mrs Rs SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event she is not now 
able to close her SIPP.
Ill explain how Positive Solutions should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above 
in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs R has suffered as a result of making the switches
To do this, Positive Solutions should work out the likely value of Mrs Rs pensions as at 
the date of this decision, had she left them where they were instead of switching to the 
SIPP.
Positive Solutions should ask Mrs Rs former pension provider to calculate the current 
notional transfer value had she not switched her pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year 
fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England should be used to calculate the 
value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved if the pensions had not been switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mrs R has suffered. I understand that 
Lightstep has now been dissolved and therefore the investment should be given nil value 
for the calculation.
Mrs R has told us that she is in the process of switching from the SIPP to another 
personal pension. If this is concluded before the compensation is calculated and the SIPP 
is closed, the comparison should be with the transfer value of the personal pension 
making adjustments for the sums already held in the personal pension.
Any additional sum that Mrs R paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional 
transfer value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Positive Solutions totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
2. Pay compensation to Mrs R for loss she has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mrs R has suffered is within her pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of her pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mrs R could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mrs Rs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mrs R may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mrs R direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mrs R should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mrs Rs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mrs R is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs R 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
3. SIPP fees
Mrs R should be able to close her SIPP as the Lightstep investment is dissolved. But if 
Mrs R  is unable to close her SIPP once compensation has been paid, Positive Solutions 
should pay an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on 
the most recent years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mrs R 
would not be in the SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it would not be fair for her to 
have to pay fees to keep it open. And I am satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for 
things to be sorted out with the shares, and the SIPP to be closed. 
However, to be clear, such fees will not be payable by Positive Solutions if the SIPP can 
be closed.
The direct investment
In respect of the sum of £4,000 that Mrs R invested in Lightstep using funds disinvested 
from her ISA in 2009, I think its fair to say that Mrs R would have invested differently if 
she had received suitable advice. So to compensate her loss - which I understand to be a 
total loss  - Positive Solutions should calculate what her investment would have been 
worth at the date of this decision if it had been invested on 2 December 2009 (the date of 
Mrs Rs share certificate for her purchase of Lightstep shares) against a benchmark of 
50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index and 50% of the monthly 
average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England should be 
used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return 
that could have been achieved if she had invested in an investment that met her risk 
profile.
Positive Solutions should pay this sum directly to Mrs R.
Trouble and upset
Positive Solutions should pay Mrs R £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her 
by receiving the unsuitable advice.
Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Positive 
Solutions receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs R 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman