DRN-3168714
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on her car following a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Es car was declared a total loss following an incident and esure offered her £6,084, 
which it said was the cars pre-loss market value. It had deducted £90 for pre-existing 
damage and the cars history. But Mrs E thought its offer was too low and she said her car 
had been in pristine condition. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esures 
offer was made correctly according to our approach. And she thought its £90 deduction for 
scratches to the bumper and the cars history was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs E replied that shed found a higher valuation for her car. She thought esure had only 
considered the lowest ones provided by the trade guides. She thought the lowest valuation 
should be discounted and this would increase the settlement offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs E wants the best possible price for her car. And I can see that Mrs 
Es policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The investigator 
has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars 
but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought esures settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked three of the guides we use for 
cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Es car at the date of its 
loss. esure also provided the valuations it found using the same guides, and they were about 
the same. Small changes are due to changes in the logarithms used by the guides.  
Our approach is that its fair to rely on the insurers valuations as evidence of the market 
prices at the time if they were correctly made. I can see that they were made correctly 
according to our approach and they were confirmed by the investigators checks. So I think 
its fair to rely on them here. 
Mrs E provided a valuation she had commissioned from a further guide. But we dont tend to 
use this guide when making valuations more than three months after the loss. I cant see a 
date on the valuation Mrs E provided, so I think it wouldnt be fair to consider it here. I would 
have treated esures valuations in just the same way. 
Where there are outliers in the range of valuations, we think its fair to discount them in 
reaching a fair offer. The three valuations had a wide range, but I cant see a reason to 
discount the top or bottom valuation as they are about equidistant from the middle valuation. 
esure took an average of the valuations provided by the three guides to reach its settlement 
offer. I think that was fair and reasonable to reach a fair valuation. 
esure then made a deduction of £60 for previous damage and £30 because the car had a 
previous owner. It provided an estimate made by its engineers that the repairs to the bumper 
would cost £120. Our approach is that a deduction of half this amount from the settlement is 
fair. And I think it was fair for esure to deduct £30 for the cars history as this would affect its 
market value.
So I think esure made its assessments of the cars market value correctly in keeping with our 
approach. And I think it applied fair and reasonable deductions from its valuation to reach its 
settlement offer. So I think this was fair and reasonable and I dont require esure to increase 
this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman