DRN-2236700
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her alongside a charge card. 
I appreciate that the card Mrs D took out was linked to a department store. However, Allianz 
is responsible for answering for complaints like this. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz 
for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs D disagreed with that view 
and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing for me to establish is how this cover came to be sold. Mrs D told us that the 
cover was sold both during a telephone conversation and in a face to face meeting. It is not 
entirely clear to me how PPI could have been sold over the phone and face to face. Given 
the nature of the credit Mrs D took out, I think its most likely to have been sold in the 
department store. 
The next thing for me to consider is whether Allianz would have made it clear to Mrs D that 
she had a choice about whether to take this cover out. Mrs D said she was not told the PPI 
was optional and that she needed to opt out of the sale. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs D told us in this regard, but its not clear to me how well 
she remembers what happened during the sale. I note Mrs D couldnt recall when the cover 
was sold. She wasnt clear about the method of sale and she thought it provided both joint 
and single cover. She also said the cover related to a credit card and then a loan. Its not 
surprising Mrs D isnt clear about what happened given the policy was sold over 25 years 
ago. But it means I cant really rely on what Mrs D remembers about the sale. 
Allianz hasnt been able to provide me with a copy of the paperwork Mrs D completed at the 
relevant time. But I have seen a sample application form and Im satisfied that this is the 
same form as Mrs D would have completed. I think what was discussed during the sale 
probably follows the information contained on that application form. 
I know Mrs D alleged that she would have had to opt out if she didnt want PPI. But looking 
at the paperwork, thats not right. For PPI to be added, Mrs D had to tick a box and then 
indicate the name of the insured person underneath, along with their date of birth. I 
appreciate Mrs D also said PPI was presented as a package. But if that was the case, I dont 
think Mrs D would have reasonably thought she had to select a PPI policy if it was all part of 
her charge card. 
On balance, I think its most likely that Mrs D ticked the box to say she wanted PPI cover and 
then confirmed this choice by naming herself as the insured person. If she didnt want cover, 
I think it would have been clear to her that she could have just left this section blank. 
Mrs D said Allianz advised her to buy the cover. However, I think its unlikely that the person 
in the store took a detailed account of Mrs Ds personal circumstances before 
recommending this particular policy. So I havent treated this as an advised sale. Having 
said that, Allianz still had to give Mrs D enough information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be clear, 
fair and not misleading. 
Looking at the sample application form, I think the information Allianz provided could have 
been better. For example, whilst I can see that the basic cost of the cover was set out, its 
not clear that Mrs D could have to pay interest on the premiums or that she may have to 
maintain those premiums in the event of a claim. But that doesnt mean I can automatically 
uphold the complaint. I must also objectively consider what Mrs D would have done if Allianz 
had told Mrs D everything it should have done. 
To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also looked at what Mrs D told us about her personal circumstances at 
the relevant time. 
If Mrs D had to make a claim on the cover, it appears to me that 15% of her card balance 
would have been repaid each month until the outstanding balance was repaid. I understand 
Mrs D had some sick pay of between three and six months. With that in mind, it appears 
likely that the PPI could have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. 
Mrs D told us she had some savings of between three and six months that she could have 
used to pay her card if she lost her job. The amount of savings is not clear. But I think with a 
PPI policy, Mrs D would have been able to use those existing means on her other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a stressful time for her if she couldnt work. 
I understand Mrs D was in good health at the time of the sale and so I dont think she would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions relating to medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything else unusual about her circumstances that would have stopped her 
from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I can see how PPI could have been helpful if Mrs D was out of work. I 
cant say she would have acted differently if Allianz had given her more or better information 
about the cover. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mrs D, but it follows that I havent upheld her 
complaint. I dont require Allianz to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Nicola BowesOmbudsman