DRN-1581835
The complaint
Mr C complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited told him it would cancel his car 
insurance policy, because he didnt pay his excess for a previous claim. 
What happened
Mr C took out whats known as an all sections excess policy in March 2018. This means hed 
have to pay up to £3,000 of excess for any claim made against his policy that were his fault. 
Mr C was involved in an accident in February 2019, whilst this policy was in force. Calpe 
says it asked Mr C to pay £724.25 excess because it thought the accident was his fault.
Mr C renewed his policy with Calpe in March 2019. Calpe said it decided to cancel this policy 
in June 2019 because he didnt pay the excess for the claim made against him in February 
2019.
Mr C complained to Calpe saying he hadnt been notified of the need to make this payment 
until Calpe contacted him to say it would cancel his policy. He says he felt threatened by the 
demand for payment. 
Calpe explained that its terms and conditions set out that a policy cant be in place whilst 
there's an outstanding balance, and it wasnt in Mr Cs or Calpes interests to risk the 
potential of a further balance being owed in the event of another claim. Calpe confirmed that 
it had settled the claim and that the excess payment was due. 
Mr C asked this service to look into things and Calpe agreed to put the cancellation on hold 
until the complaint is resolved. One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint but 
didnt think that Calpe had acted unfairly. He explained that hed seen enough to conclude 
that Mr C had been appropriately notified of the need to make this payment. The investigator 
added that Calpe had acted in accordance with its policy terms and that there wasnt any 
evidence that Calpe acted in a threatening manner. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He agrees that he was 
told about the excess payment over the phone but says he received no further information 
about it until it was chased as a debt. 
Mr C says he acted on Calpes advice to obtain his own estimate to repair his car and that 
hes still in the process of doing so  his understanding wasnt that Calpe would move 
forward with the claim until this estimate was obtained. Mr C says this task has been difficult 
to complete because of where he works. 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision, explaining why I think the complaint should be upheld:
Communication about the excess payment 
Mr C says he wasnt appropriately notified that he needed to pay the excess. He says he 
was advised by Calpe to obtain his own estimate for the repairs to his vehicle. Mr C says this valuation has been ongoing and that he received no communication about the claim until 
Calpe contacted him to advise it would cancel the policy. In my opinion, Mr C was given 
enough notice about paying the excess and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to some of the calls between Mr C and Calpe. Mr C called Calpe for an update 
on 20 May and was advised about his excess and how this was calculated  Calpe told him 
it had offset the estimated repair cost for his vehicle, leaving a balance of £725 (although this 
figure wasnt entirely accurate, Im not concerned as its likely the call handler rounded up 
the total for ease). Ive also seen the following:
On 2 March, Mr C discussed the claim with Calpe on the telephone. Calpe advised 
him of his excess and Mr C queried whether he could pay in instalments 
Calpe sent a letter dated 20 May asking Mr C to make his excess payment of 
£724.25 and advised him that the policy may be cancelled if he doesnt pay within 14 
days
Calpe sent what looks like a final request for payment on 12 June via email. The 
email explains that Calpe had tried to contact Mr C several times and that the policy 
will be cancelled if the excess isnt paid. The email also explains that the debt would 
be passed to an external collections body if payment isnt made 
 
Mr C says that he didnt receive any correspondence until the email on 12 June. He also 
says he did receive some calls from Calpe but asked it to call back at a different time  
however, Mr C says Calpe didnt call him back as agreed. I cant say for certain whether 
Calpe did call him back as agreed. Calpe has sent me its internal records which show 
attempted calls on 10 and 12 June that dont appear to have been answered. So, I think its 
likely it did call. 
The letter Calpe sent on 20 May is addressed correctly, and Calpe says it sent it. I cant say 
for certain that Mr C received the letter. But Mr C hasnt reported any previous problems with 
receiving letters to this address and I havent seen anything to suggest there were postal 
issues around this time. On balance, I think its likely Mr C did receive this letter and I think 
Calpe has made reasonable attempts to make Mr C aware of the balance he owes.  
Calpe told Mr C during a call that it also sent him an email and text message on 10 June. 
Calpe hasnt been able to provide me with a copy, so I cant say for certain that these were 
sent to Mr C. But even if Calpe didnt send the email and text message, it doesnt make a 
difference to my view  I still think it made reasonable attempts to contact Mr C.
Mr C says his understanding was that hed go away and obtain a private estimate for the 
repairs to his vehicle. He didnt think there was a deadline or that the claims process would 
move forward without this estimate. Listening to the call he made on 20 May, Calpe didnt 
explicitly inform him that the claim would move forward either. But I dont think this makes a 
difference as to whether Mr C was aware that he needed to make an excess payment. 
Mr C was told during this call that, based on the existing estimate, hed need to pay around 
£725. So, he wouldve reasonably known that he needed to pay this at some point. And even 
if he didnt hear from Calpe about this payment until the email of 12 June  this email was 
still a request for payment, albeit a final chaser. Calpe hadnt cancelled the policy at this 
point, even though its terms say it couldve done so once the balance was more than 14 
days overdue. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Calpe to advise Mr C of the next 
steps it could take if the balance wasnt paid.
Even though Calpe didnt set a deadline for this estimate, there was no indication that the 
claim would be placed on hold until Mr C provides his own estimate. Its now been over six months since Mr C had this discussion with Calpe, so I think hes had enough time. 
Therefore, I dont think Calpe acted unfairly by moving the claim forward and asking Mr C to 
pay the excess  based on its own calculation. 
Mr C says that he felt threatened by the demand for payment sent on 12 June. This email is 
more strongly worded than any previous correspondence  particularly as it seems to be a 
final request. But I dont think it comes across as threatening, so I cant say that Calpe acted 
unfairly by sending this to Mr C.
Cancellation
Although the terms and conditions of Mr Cs insurance allow Calpe to cancel the policy in 
these circumstances, I dont think that doing so would produce a fair and reasonable 
outcome. The implications of having a policy cancelled for Mr C would include having a 
cancellation marker on his record and the likely increased costs in premiums. I dont think its 
reasonable for Calpe to cancel Mr Cs policy when it hasnt given him the option of setting up 
a payment plan to pay his excess. 
Mr C hasnt shown an unwillingness to pay the excess- in fact, hes previously enquired 
about a potential payment plan. And the excess in question relates to a claim made on his 
previous policy. Calpe seems to have found it acceptable to renew Mr Cs policy despite the 
ongoing claim. Calpe has also put the cancellation on hold until this complaint is resolved 
and appears to have continued collecting premiums from Mr C in the meantime. 
So, I intend to direct Calpe not to cancel Mr Cs policy at this time. Calpe should continue 
liaising with Mr C to obtain the excess balance he owes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Calpe accepted my provisional findings and said that it would employ an external debt 
collector if Mr C doesn't keep up to date with the payment plan it agrees with him. At this 
stage, I won't be commenting on this further, as I can't see a reason why a payment plan 
would be unfair on Mr C. 
Mr C enquired about the damage estimate he received from Calpe for his own vehicle - he 
says it doesn't cover everything that was damaged and therefore the excess balance may be 
incorrect. Mr C was unable to provide any documentation before the deadline I set in my 
provisional decision, so I haven't been able to look in to this further. 
I acknowledge Mr C's concerns that he may end up paying more excess than he needs to. If 
it turns out that Calpe changes its estimate for repairs to Mr C's vehicle, I'd expect it to 
recalculate the excess balance Mr C owes and let him know what this amount is. In the 
meantime and without any information to contradict the existing estimate, I wouldn't consider 
it unfair for Calpe to pursue the excess balance. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm upholding this complaint and instruct Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited:to allow Mr C an opportunity to pay the excess balance - setting up a payment plan if 
thats what Mr C would prefer
if its estimate for repairs to Mr C's vehicle changes - then it should recalculate the 
excess amount Mr C owes
not to cancel Mr Cs current policy
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman