DRN-3099912
The complaint
Mr S complains that Experian Limited have merged his credit file with a siblings, and are 
saying they cannot correct it.
What happened
Mr S and his twin sibling were given similar names at birth. Being twins, they also have the 
same date of birth, and they share address details. 
Mr S changed his name a few years ago, to make it easier to differentiate him from his 
sibling. But his previous name is still listed as an alias on his credit file. Sometimes, Experian 
have mixed up Mr Ss previous name with his sibling, and have then listed Mr Ss sibling as 
an alias of Mr S  effectively merging their credit files. On each previous occasion, Experian 
corrected the file when Mr S complained.
In April 2020, Experian merged Mr Ss file with his siblings again. Mr S discovered this in 
May 2020 and reported it.
However, this time Experian have not corrected the file. They say the latest version of their 
system is incapable of separating Mr Ss file from his siblings, because their details are too 
similar. They say even if they fixed Mr Ss file manually, their system would automatically 
merge him with his sibling again.
Experian apologised and paid Mr S £100 compensation. They have also been sending him a 
printed version of his file with his siblings information manually removed, so that he can see 
what his file should look like  though again, Experian say that lenders will in fact see the 
incorrect version with the siblings information on it. They added a notice of correction to 
warn lenders to discount his siblings credit history. They said they would try to find a way to 
fix Mr Ss file at some indefinite point in the future.
However, Mr S explained that he works in an industry where hes responsible for large 
amounts of credit, and needs to be able to pass credit checks, take out credit, or renew 
credit deals. So its highly important that he has good credit for his career. His siblings file 
has negative information that could harm Mr Ss rating  and in any case, he wants his credit 
file to be correct and to be under his own control, not someone elses.
I sent Mr S and Experian a provisional decision on 17 June 2021, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Experian have a responsibility to make sure that the information they report for Mr S is 
correct, and to fix any errors they find. Here, they have continued to report information that 
they know is incorrect  indeed, theyve merged a whole separate persons credit history 
with Mr Ss, and they appear to have proposed that Mr S should simply accept this for the 
time being. It should come as little surprise, then, that I plan to find in Mr Ss favour.
Experian have added a notice of correction warning lenders to double-check Mr Ss file. 
While I appreciate they tried to help, I dont think this is an effective solution. Im not 
confident that it would be clear to lenders which information is Mr Ss and which is his 
siblings, not least because Experian often reports them with the same name and doesnt 
include the parts of their names that differentiate them. And in any case, this notice prevents 
Mr S from being able to use fast credit or online applications and so on  as all his credit 
applications now have to be manually reviewed. That doesnt seem fair on him. Mr S 
shouldnt be disadvantaged because of Experians errors.
I appreciate that two individuals having similar details can occasionally cause difficulties. But 
whatever difficulties Experian have, they need to report Mr Ss file correctly. It appears that 
the other credit reference agencies have been able to deal with this situation appropriately  
one of them even removed Mr Ss prior alias to make sure this didnt happen on their end. 
Experian themselves have reported Mr Ss file correctly for lengthy periods of time and have 
been able to correct this error in the past. So it would seem it is very much possible for this 
to be properly resolved.
Experian have partly put the blame on Mr Ss birth name. But Mr S didnt choose his birth 
name. Indeed, Mr S even changed his name to try to make things easier, which is an 
incredibly large step for him to take. And the naming conventions used for Mr S and his 
sibling are by no means unheard of. Experian should be prepared to deal with a situation 
such as this.
If Experians latest system is lacking in that it cannot report files such as this correctly, then 
thats Experians fault, and its Experians responsibility to put right any errors that their 
process results in. But here, it seems that Experian have failed to deal with the problem and 
have instead effectively left Mr S to pick up the pieces.
Experian say theyre working on a solution to the problems caused by their latest system. 
But this situation has been going on since April last year and I havent heard any signs of 
progress. 
Experian also argue that theyre not responsible for the information that data suppliers give. 
But as above, they are responsible for reporting Mr Ss file correctly, and currently they are 
knowingly reporting it incorrectly. If they need to change information that their data suppliers 
gave, but are unable to do so on their own, then perhaps they should speak to those data 
suppliers as a matter of urgency.
In summary, I find it to be unacceptable that Experian are knowingly reporting incorrect 
information on Mr Ss file, with no indication of when they might correct it. It follows that 
I think Experian need to resolve this issue and find a way to fix Mr Ss file in a way that is 
pragmatic and does not unfairly disadvantage him. In response to this provisional decision, 
I would like to hear what proposals Experian have for resolving this issue without delay and 
without it simply reoccurring every month or so.For example, in similar situations other credit reference agencies have made sure that each 
lender recorded each siblings middle name in order to properly differentiate the two, or they 
altogether removed the prior aliases that linked them, or they took measures to disassociate 
the files so they werent merged again. Those all seem like reasonable solutions, and its not 
clear why Experian have not been able to do the same or similar in order to find a more 
permanent solution to this issue. It appears the other credit reference agencies have been 
able to report Mr Ss file correctly, but not Experian. I would particularly like to hear 
Experians representations on this point.
So in the absence of a compelling reason not to, Im minded to direct Experian to resolve the 
issue with Mr Ss credit file. And in the absence of another solution, I would suggest they do 
what the other credit reference agencies have done. Of course, Experian can reply to this 
provisional decision with further representations about the practicality of those solutions. If 
they cannot reasonably do what the other agencies have done, they will need to give a clear 
and detailed explanation as to why, and  most importantly  they will need to suggest other 
pragmatic solutions such that Mr Ss file is reporting correctly and such that he is not unfairly 
disadvantaged.
Ive also thought carefully about the losses involved. Experian point out that Mr Ss credit 
score is still in the top bracket despite his siblings negative information, and they say hes 
passed all his recent credit applications. So thankfully, in this instance Mr S does not appear 
to have suffered any financial losses, such as declined applications. But I have also 
considered his non-financial losses.
Given Mr Ss career, I understand that it is essential he maintains good credit. While his 
siblings file isnt that bad at the moment, there is significant negative information on it, such 
as arrears and a default. And Mr S is understandably worried that if his sibling gets in trouble 
with credit again in the future, Mr Ss credit could be inadvertently harmed at a key moment, 
with serious effects for his job. Mr S has detailed the stress and upset hes suffered worrying 
about the potential damage to his career. And in any case, I think its perfectly reasonable for 
Mr S to expect his credit file to be correct  and for it to broadly be in his control rather than 
at the mercy of another separate individuals credit decisions.
I can see that Experian have caused Mr S  and seemingly are continuing to cause Mr S  
considerable distress, over a considerable period of time. So I propose that they pay him a 
further £250 compensation, to acknowledge the error theyve made and the significant 
impact its had on Mr S. This £250 is in addition to any compensation they previously paid.
Experian argue that theyve already paid Mr S a fair amount of compensation from previous 
instances of them merging his file with his siblings. But I dont think those previous instances 
are relevant in this regard  Im considering this instance.
I have also passed Mr S the details for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO for 
short), should he wish to contact them about his case as well. They look after data protection 
and information rights issues, and may have a relevant interest in whats happened here.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr S thanked us and said he felt Experian had 
done this deliberately. He confirmed he would speak with the ICO.Experian apologised for the delays involved and proposed a solution to disassociate Mr S 
from his sibling using their middle names. After some back and forth and some help from 
Mr S, Experian were able to produce an updated version of Mr Ss credit file using their 
proposed solution  and Mr S confirmed it was correct. Experian agreed to pay the 
proposed compensation and said that if this did happen again in future, they would look to 
resolve it as soon as possible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S suggested that Experian may have originally removed his and his siblings middle 
names on purpose in order to keep their files mixed up. I understand where Mr Ss concern 
is coming from, but I hope I can reassure him that the evidence Ive seen does not support 
that. Experian were reporting the data they were given. And they have now agreed to ask 
each lender for the relevant middle names so that they can keep Mr Ss and his twins files 
separate.
Aside from that point, it seems that both sides broadly agreed with the provisional decision, 
and that Experian have proposed a successful way to correct Mr Ss credit file. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Experian Limited to:
Resolve the issue with Mr Ss credit file using the proposed solution; and-
Pay Mr S £250 compensation in addition to any compensation they previously paid.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Experian Limited to put 
things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman