DRN-2716581
The complaint
Mr R complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax decision to close his account. 
Mr R wants access to his money.
What happened
In January 2020, Halifax reviewed Mr Rs account. They sent him a letter in the same month 
to inform him that his account would close within 65 calendar days.
On 4 February 2020, a further letter was sent to Mr R to inform him that following the review, 
Halifax had to decided to withdraw all banking facilities. The letter also explained that to 
withdraw any money from the account, Mr R would need to attend branch with valid 
identification.
Mr Rs account closed in April 2020 and around £5,000 remained in it.
In August 2020, Mr R attended a branch with his identification. However, Halifax didnt 
accept this because the address didnt match their records. Mr R explained he was living in 
temporary accommodation at the time due to personal reasons and therefore hadnt been 
able to change his address over.
In September 2020, Mr R relocated to a country outside of the United Kingdom. Because of 
that, he hasnt been able to access his money since. Mr R asked Halifax to transfer the 
money electronically to another account in his name. Halifax refused and again explained 
that Mr R would need to attend branch with identification before they could release the 
money to him.
The investigator who looked at things didnt think Halifax needed to do anything differently. 
He was satisfied Halifax were entitled to review and close Mr Rs account  and he thought 
they gave Mr R sufficient notice to withdraw the money before he left the UK. 
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review things, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Ive explained 
my reasons below.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr R wants the money in his account released to him. He 
says the money belongs to him and all he wants Halifax to do is transfer it to another 
account in his name.
Firstly, Halifax has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only relate to when an 
account is opened. To comply with their obligations, Halifax may need to review an account 
and/or restrict access. I can see thats whats happened with Mr Rs account. In order to 
meet these legal and regulatory requirements, Halifax is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information  or, like in Mr Rs case, verify themselves for security purposes. Its important to 
point out that its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes  our role is to see 
if the bank has made any mistakes. And having reviewed the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied Halifax have acted appropriately.
Im unable to share the full reasons of why Halifax took the action they did with Mr Rs 
account. But Id like to reassure Mr R that based on the information and evidence Ive seen I 
think Halifax took the necessary steps when deciding to end their banking relationship with 
Mr R. Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to 
a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the 
same as if Mr R decided to end the agreement with Halifax and use another bank  he 
wouldnt have to explain why. Im pleased to see Halifax gave Mr R sufficient notice, in line 
with the terms and conditions  and details on how he could obtain the money left in his 
account.
Halifax asked Mr R to attend a branch with identification to withdraw the money left in his 
account. The first letter which made Mr R aware of this requirement was sent in 
February 2020. Im aware Mr R visited branch in August 2020  around six months after 
Halifax first made him aware of how he could withdraw his money, and around four months 
after his account had been closed. Im not aware of any specific reason for this delay but Ive 
considered it when making my decision.
Mr R attended branch with identification, however the addresses didnt match and therefore 
Halifax didnt accept it. I recognise Mr R says he was living in temporary accommodation at 
the time, and therefore didnt have a valid ID with his address. Its for Halifax to determine 
what will be acceptable as proof of identity  and having considered the evidence presented 
to them, I can understand why they had concerns in releasing Mr Rs money to him without 
valid identification. Mr R didnt return to branch after that and left the country to relocate in 
September 2020.
I appreciate it would be extremely difficult for Mr R to attend branch now hes no longer living 
in this country  but that doesnt mean Halifaxs request is unfair. Mr R has asked them to 
transfer the money electronically to another bank account, but theyve refused. Halifax have 
explained that there are occasions where identification checks need to be made in person  
and Mr Rs case has been classified as one of those occasions. So while I do understand 
Mr Rs frustrations with this situation, I cant fairly say Halifaxs request is unreasonable. Ive 
also considered that there was a significant period of time between Mr R being made of 
aware of the identification requirement and him attending branch. I think if Mr R had acted on 
Halifaxs request sooner, he likely could have resolved the issue before leaving the country.
Halifax has since provided Mr R with an alternative option to be able to release the money to 
him. Halifax have asked Mr R to provide proof of his identity and residential address by 
having documents certified by an official of an embassy, consulate, or high commission. Or 
alternately from a lawyer, barrister or recognised professional body accountant. Im satisfied 
that Halifax has given appropriate options for Mr R and find all of the available options to be 
feasible. 
In summary, I think Halifax acted appropriately when reviewing and subsequently closing 
Mr Rs account. And I think their request for Mr R to attend branch in person, with valid 
identification, or to send certified copies of documentation confirming his identity, is 
reasonable to be able to release the remaining money in the account. So it follows that I 
wont be asking Halifax to do anything differently. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman