DRN-2636392
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC say 
that Mr and Mrs L received unsuitable advice from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to 
invest into a bond. They say that the investment was too risky as they were first time 
investors.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L inherited £30,000 and met with an advisor from RBS in May 1994. The adviser 
recommended that they invest £10,000 into a capital investment bond (CIB)
which started on 25 May 1994. 
Mr and Mrs L made a withdrawal from their investment of £5,000 on 26 May 2000 to 
purchase a car. The investment was surrendered on 11 March 2009 with a value of 
£8,575.77.
In 2020, the CMC complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs L to say that the advice to invest was 
unsuitable and that the investment was too risky. RBS reviewed the complaint and thought 
that it had been made too late.
The CMC referred the complaint to the service and one of our investigators looked at the 
complaint. The investigator thought it was a complaint that we could consider and thought it 
was within our jurisdiction. RBS didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
jurisdiction issue.
The ombudsman reviewed the complaint and thought it was within jurisdiction and one that 
the service could consider.
The complaint was passed back to the investigator who looked at the merits of the case. The 
investigator thought that there was no evidence to suggest that the advice was unsuitable 
and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and will not be upholding the complaint.
The original advice was provided by RBS over 25 years ago in 1994. Not surprisingly, there 
is not much documentation available covering the point of sale. I have based my decision on 
what documentation is available and the submissions provided by both the CMC and RBS.
The CMC say that Mr and Mrs were first time investors. In their submission to the service 
they said:
we believe it is finely balanced as to whether our clients had capacity for a low level of risk 
or whether they should not have been advised to invest at all; either way we cannot accept 
the level of risk within the investment was appropriate.  
When providing advice, a business will consider the personal and financial circumstances of 
the consumers. This will include employment details and what liabilities exist. The 
consumers attitude to risk will be assessed and their capacity for loss. A consumers 
experience is also looked at and this will be part of the decision-making process for the 
recommendation.
This information is normally captured in a fact find document but as the sale was completed 
in 1994, this document is not available for review. This should not be a negative towards 
RBS as they must consider the data retention conditions that exist for personal data and 
information.
In the absence of a fact find document, I have considered what is likely to have happened 
based on the balance on probability.
I have reviewed the policy document for the CIB and the investment strategy for the growth 
managed fund is described as:
invested in units of other asset funds containing equities with over half of the fund invested 
in the UK Equity Fund in such proportions as the company may determine 
The CMC say that Mr and Mrs Ls attitude to risk was not properly considered and they 
believe that they should have been given advice to invest in low level risk investments or not 
at all. 
I have considered what the CMC has said but it is impossible to say whether their attitude to 
risk was considered or not. RBS have said that their advisers were subject to strict guidance 
on providing advice and I have no reason to doubt this.
Even if Mr and Mrs L were first time investors, this does not mean that they should have 
been recommended to invest in low risk investments  a first time investor can have an 
attitude to risk that is high if they have considered all the consequences that this brings.
The policy booklet included investment features that consumers had to agree to and sign 
before proceeding. It included a statement that said 
since the value of units held under a bond can go down as well as up, the returns from a 
bond are not guaranteed
I can see that Mr and Mrs L signed this declaration, so I need to assume that the read and 
understood that the CIB carried an element of risk and that they were happy to proceed.
The CMC have raised issues around affordability and that Mr and Mrs L did not have high 
incomes to rely on. I can see that they invested £10,000 into the CIB from an inheritance 
sum of £30,000 which indicates that they retained a large proportion. The CIB was also held 
until Mr and Mrs L reached retirement age. Although Mr and Mrs L withdrew £5,000 for a car purchase, the remainder of the bond was 
retained until they retired so there is no evidence to suggest that they could not afford to 
invest.
From what I have seen, I think that Mr and Mrs L could afford to invest and understood that 
the CIB was not guaranteed, and the value could fall. I am not persuaded by the CMCs 
claims that the investment was too risky, and they have not provided any evidence to 
support their argument.
I think that on the balance of probability, the adviser from RBS took the clients through a fact 
find and recommended the CIB based on the personal and financial circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs L. I have not seen any evidence to suggest that the advice was not suitable and 
wont be asking RBS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman