DRN-1499154
The complaint
Mrs S complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to the service she received 
when she visited a branch to deposit and exchange some money in July 2019. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs S and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
When Mrs S went to a branch in July 2019, she had with her some old out of date money 
she had found at home, and which she wished to deposit and change for new money. 
Included within that money was a bag which she said contained old out of date £5 notes to 
the value of £110. She had prior to her visit to the branch contacted Barclays by telephone 
who had assured her that they would exchange them for new notes. However, there was a 
problem paying the money in and so it was returned to Mrs S. When Mrs S arrived home she 
noticed that the old £5 notes had not been given back to her.
Barclays checked their till receipts and the entries for that day and confirmed that the 
transaction was carried out without error, and they didn't have the old £5 notes.
Mrs S was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, 
and having done so, concluded that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with 
the complaint fairly.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. 
I have read with care Mrs S letters to our investigator, and I am very sorry to learn not only 
of the difficult time she experienced last July when trying to exchange and deposit money in the branch, but also the torrid time she has had since. I would like to express my 
condolences for the loss of both her husband and her son.
Turning to Mrs S' complaint, I afraid I dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong and 
Ill explain why. As I have said above my decisions are based on evidence, and whilst I dont 
doubt for one minute that Mrs S firmly believes she had with her £110 in old £5 notes I can 
find no actual evidence that she did. 
Barclays have produced evidence of the till receipts which record that the till Mrs S dealt with 
balanced at the end of the day, save for 10p. The bank statement also shows that £423 was 
returned to Mrs S when it could not be paid in, and Mrs S has confirmed that the receipt she 
was given tallies with that. Had Mrs S left the £5 notes at the branch this would have shown 
up on the till receipt, but it did not. And Mrs S didnt check the cash that was given back to 
her before she left the branch. So, taking all of that into the balance it would seem the £5 
notes were not left with Barclays
Ive thought about other possible explanations as to where the £5 notes went to and of 
course its possible that the cashier took them for herself. But that is an extremely unlikely 
event because it would mean the cashier was stealing money, and of course there is no 
evidence that she did. Other explanations would include that Mrs S might simply be 
mistaken. But this is all speculation and without actual evidence it is impossible to say what 
happened to the £5 notes.
So, doing the best I can with the evidence that is available, I cannot say that the £5 notes 
were ever received by Barclays, and so I cannot say they have been at fault. 
I know Mrs S will probably be disappointed with my decision, but I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im afraid I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman