DRN-2979577
The complaint
Mr C complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited failed to pay all his 
legal costs following a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy. Hes being supported 
with the complaint by a relative, Mr C2.
What happened
Mr C made a claim on his legal expenses policy to cover the costs of bringing a clinical 
negligence claim. In March 2018 DAS confirmed that cover was available for the claim and 
appointed one of its panel firms of solicitors to assess the cases but in April the solicitors 
advised that there were no prospects of recovering any award from the defendant.
Mr C then consulted his own solicitors and in August 2018 they contacted DAS to say they 
were acting for Mr C on a conditional fee (no win no fee) agreement. They said 
they had counsels advice which was supportive; 
there were some issues with recovering any award as the defendant wasnt insured 
but he was still practising and it was likely they would be able to achieve a 
settlement; 
the size of the claim was likely to be £25,000;
they couldnt take out after the event insurance and were seeking cover for the cost 
of obtaining expert reports  they would not be claiming for their own or counsels 
fees.
DAS replied to the solicitors saying it would consider appointing Mr Cs solicitors but needed 
full details of the claim including the prospects of success. DAS sent its standard claims 
report to the solicitors for completion, saying they had no authority to incur costs yet and 
cover would not start until terms of appointment were agreed. DAS also wrote to Mr C 
explaining the position.
DAS said further investigation would be needed regarding the defendants insurance and 
expert evidence. It asked the panel solicitors to make initial enquiries about the defendant 
and in November 2018 an enquiry agent was instructed. In December 2018 DAS spoke to 
Mr C2 saying it was aware Mr C had instructed his own solicitors and the enquiries being 
made about the chances of recovery against the defendant would allow it to consider 
appointing those solicitors to act for Mr C.
In January 2019 the investigation report was provided, advising that the defendant owned 
property with a value of around £750,000 but in February 2019 DAS closed its file
DAS didnt hear from Mr C again until July 2020, when Mr C2 got in touch saying Mr C had 
pursued his case and had agreed a settlement of £50,000. Of this, £35,000 was 
compensation and £15,000 was for costs, but around £5,000 would be deducted from the 
compensation as the success fee, meaning Mr C would only receive around £30,000. 
Mr C2 said this showed they did meet the criteria for cover and asked DAS to reimburse the 
costs.
DAS said the offer was reasonable and so one Mr C would have had to accept in any event, 
but if the success fee was deducted he would be out of pocket, as that wouldnt have 
happened if hed been covered under the policy. So DAS agreed to cover the success fee 
but not the other costs of £15,000.
Mr C was unhappy and brought the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think 
it should be upheld. He said 
DAS had never agreed to Mr Cs solicitors being appointed, and the policy terms said 
costs incurred before the claim was accepted would not be covered;
Mr C hadnt kept DAS informed about the progress of his case;
DAS should have been more proactive and if it had chased the solicitors things may 
have been dealt with differently;
but it was a reasonable settlement and the payment included Mr Cs costs, and it was 
reasonable for DAS to reimburse the success fee.
Mr C remains unhappy and has requested an ombudsmans decision. On his behalf, Mr C2 
says Mr C was forced to proceed on the basis of a no win no fee agreement after DAS 
failed to take the matter forward and they heard nothing further from DAS about the claim.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes cover for clinical negligence claims, but cover will only be provided 
where the claim has reasonable prospects, meaning that its more likely than not the insured 
will recover damages. So to get cover, Mr C had to show it was likely that he would win his 
case and recover any compensation awarded against the defendant. This is a common term 
in legal expenses insurance and its reasonable for an insurer only to provide cover where a 
claim has a reasonable chance of success.
Even where cover is provided, there are other policy terms that will apply, which include:
there is no cover for costs incurred before written acceptance of a claim;
DAS may refuse cover if the insured refuses a reasonable offer of settlement; 
the insured must co-operate fully with DAS and the representative and must keep 
DAS up to date with the progress of the claim; and 
the insured must take reasonable steps to recover costs and repay any costs that are 
recovered from the other side.
After DAS initially rejected the claim, on the basis Mr C wasnt likely to recover any money 
from the defendant even if he won the case, he instructed his own solicitors on a no win no 
fee agreement. Mr C complained at the time about that decision but that complaint has been 
dealt with, and Im only considering this complaint about what has happened since then.
The solicitors contacted DAS a few months later and said they had positive advice from 
counsel. Counsels advice did say he thought there were good prospects of success. But this 
was based on his past experience of similar cases and what he thought an expert would say. 
And he said more evidence would be needed, including an experts report. Counsel also said 
if the defendant was insured there were good prospects of recovery but if he wasnt, things 
were less certain. So although the advice was positive, there were still issues to address. 
DAs did obtain some further evidence following this. Its not clear to me why, having 
obtained this, DAS then closed its file rather than progressing the claim. I appreciate DAS 
didnt hear from Mr Cs solicitors again but even so, it could have been more proactive.Having said that, Mr Cs solicitors had said they werent looking to claim for their costs or 
counsels fees, only for the cost of obtaining the reports needed to evidence the claim. And 
DAs had said to the solicitors and to Mr C2 that cover would not start until terms of 
appointment were agreed. Neither Mr C nor the solicitors contacted DAS again at any point 
while the case was being pursued. So DAS didnt know what was happening or what costs 
were being incurred and hadnt agreed to any costs.
Our investigator asked Mr C2 if he could provide evidence that the solicitors tried to contact 
DAS throughout the process of the claim. Mr C2 provided details of email correspondence 
from the solicitors in which they said would come back to him once they knew DAS position, 
but that was in August 2018. It doesnt seem they took any further steps to keep DAS 
updated after that or request cover for the costs that were being incurred. The solicitors 
didnt return the claim form to DAS and entered into a conditional fee agreement with Mr C, 
which DAS wasnt aware of until later.
And ultimately, the claim was settled with Mr Cs costs paid as part of that settlement. The 
solicitors advice was clear that it was a reasonable settlement, which Mr C should accept. 
The settlement included £15,000 towards their costs and the solicitors confirmed they would 
limit their costs to that amount. Even if the claim had been covered and the solicitors 
appointed to act, cover would not have continued if Mr C had rejected that settlement. And 
there would have been no further costs to be paid by DAS in circumstances where the 
settlement covered his solicitors costs in full. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me Mr C has been prejudiced in relation to the 
settlement or costs, other than in relation to the success fee. If the solicitors had been 
appointed to act under the policy rather than through a conditional fee agreement, there 
wouldnt have been a success fee. So if that was deducted he would be out of pocket. But 
DAS agreed to reimburse that sum, so there isnt any loss in relation to this. And therefore I 
dont think theres anything further DAS needs to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman