DRN-3173679
The complaint
Mr G complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) failed to cancel his 
existing policy and set up a new one as it had agreed to, leaving him out of pocket.
What happened
On 5 April 2021 Mr G purchased a motor insurance policy through One Call, with a start date 
of 15 April 2021. Mr G paid the policy premium of £217.96 in full at the time of purchase.
Within a couple of days One Call informed Mr G that when doing its validation checks it had 
become aware of a previous claim that it hadnt been informed of. The impact of this meant 
his policy premium would increase by £203.25, including an amendment fee of £39, and this 
would be taken from his card on file on the last working day of the month.
Mr G chose to look around and was able to find cheaper quotes elsewhere and so, before 
the policy started, he contacted One Call via its online chat to say he wanted to cancel the 
policy.
One Call, via the online chat provided Mr G with an alternative quote, from its panel, 
whereby he would only have to pay an additional £61.04 instead of the £203.25 he had 
previously been quoted. Mr G agreed to this in principle but asked for the documentation to 
be emailed to him so that he could check it first. 
There is some back-and-forth between Mr G and one call, via the online chat, around the 
policy documents and the excess quoted within them. One Call explain the difference 
between the minimum excess and actual excess payable. Following this Mr G confirms he 
would like to go ahead with the new policy by saying:
this has gone on far too long  I've lost a complete day when I had some very 
serious other work that needed to be done, we will go ahead and let the FCA sort it 
out. From previous information you will be taking the extra £61 out of my account at 
the end of this month.
 Please confirm that this is correct
One Call responded by saying:
to proceed with the quote I emailed you, yes there is £61.04 to pay towards a new 
policy and the full payment of £217.96 goes towards the new premium. I've 
requested all chats to be emailed to you with the previous agents have confirmed.
Mr G says at this point he assumed the old policy would be cancelled and the new one 
would be set up with £61.04 to be taken from his bank account at the end of the month. 
However, this didn't happen, the original policy began, and One Call debited the additional 
£203.25 from Mr G's bank account.
Mr G complained to One Call and it agreed it could have handled things better, to recognise 
this it made an offer to waive the £39 administration fee and compensate Mr G £50. Mr G 
didn't think this was fair as this still left him out of pocket, so he brought his complaint to this 
service.
The investigator that looked into things agreed with Mr G that One Call needed to do more. 
In summary he said:
One Call should put Mr G back in the position he would have been in had it set up 
the new policy, by refunding him the difference between the two policies.
The £50 compensation and the waiving of the admin fee One Call had offered Mr G 
was fair in the circumstances.
One Call disagreed, it argued:
Mr G had left the live chat without making the additional £61 payment for the new 
policy. Had he stayed on the live chat the representative would have continued with 
the quote, requested the payment and set the policy up. 
It had tried to call Mr G after the live chat, but Mr G didn't want to talk about it. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator, I'll explain.
When Mr G contacted One Call, he was invoking his right to cancel the original policy prior to 
its inception. One Call persuaded him to remain its customer by offering him new terms with 
a new policy, which after much back-and-forth I'm satisfied he agreed to. I say this because 
it's clear in the online chat excerpts above that his intention is to go ahead with the new 
policy. This is reinforced when he says please confirm that this is correct when asking if the 
payment will be taken from his account at the end of the month. The response given by One 
Call in that chat essentially says yes, there are no caveats in its response. If as One Call 
suggests, payment needed to be made immediately to take the new policy, it should have 
said so in response to this question. As it didn't Mr G was entitled to rely on the response it 
gave and assume that the new policy would go ahead. 
I've gone on to consider One Calls further argument that it tried to call Mr G after the live 
chat. Im not persuaded that this changes anything as One Call isn't able to provide a copy 
of that call recording, due to an IT issue, and system notes say the call was to discuss the 
policy wording and contract difference. Based on this I can't fairly say this call was to take 
the additional payment as it seems more likely it was a follow-on to the query Mr G had 
around the policy wording of the excess payable. 
So, it follows I think One Call should have cancelled the original policy in line with Mr G's 
wishes and set up the new one as he had requested.
Putting things right
 To put things right here One Call should:refund Mr G the difference between the two policies adding 8% simple interest from 
the time it took the payment until the date of refund.
pay Mr G the £50 in compensation it originally offered
waive any admin fee it has charged in relation to this as originally offered
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr G's complaint about One 
Call Insurance Services Limited, it should now:
refund Mr G the difference between the two policies adding 8% simple interest from 
the time it took the payment until the date of refund. 
pay Mr G the £50 in compensation it originally offered
waive any admin fee it has charged in relation to this as originally offered
One Call is entitled to deduct any payment it is already made to Mr G from this settlement.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that One Call deduct tax from the interest paid to Mr G. If it 
does and Mr G requests it, One Call must provide him with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so 
he may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman