DRN-4369677
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the poor service he received when he made a claim under his 
car insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
What happened
Mr J made a claim to his insurer, Advantage for damage to his car on 13 December 2022. 
Advantage arranged for Mr Js car to be assessed for repair by an approved repairer (AR) 
but Mr Js car wasnt taken to an AR until 13 January 2023. 
Mr J complained that he had found the claims process stressful in having to constantly 
chase Advantage for updates. When Mr Js car was returned to him following repair, he 
raised a further complaint as he said there were outstanding issues with the repairs. 
Advantage has paid Mr J a total of £245 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service and delays. But it doesnt agree the outstanding issues were 
incident related and so hasnt agreed to meet the costs of additional repairs. 
Mr J doesnt feel Advantage has done enough to compensate him for the experience he had 
dealing with it. He wanted Advantage to refund the years premium he paid for the policy to 
him. 
Our Investigator thought Advantage should pay Mr J a further £300 for loss of use as his car 
wasnt deemed roadworthy during the period of delay, so £10 a day for 30 days. She didnt 
agree Advantage should refund the policy premium to Mr J as he had received the benefit of 
making a claim under it (even though he was unhappy with the repairs.)
Both parties disagreed. Advantage said it is reasonable to allow a week for it to arrange for 
repairs. So it says it will agree to pay £240 for loss of use. 
Mr J says the recommendations the Investigator has made isnt enough to put things right. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Advantage caused delays in its handling of Mr Js claim and I 
understand Mr J remains unhappy with what Advantage has done to resolve his complaint . 
However, I think the compensation it has paid for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its poor service is a fair amount and line with awards we give in similar circumstances. Its 
inevitable that there will be a degree of disruption and our own time when having to make a 
claim. But I agree that Advantages poor service meant Mr Js experience caused distress 
over and above what I would deem reasonable. 
The AR examined Mr Js car after the first repairs were carried out. They found the issues 
raised were not incident related damage, but caused by wear and tear. I havent seen any 
evidence to contradict their findings and so I dont think it was unreasonable of Advantage to 
rely on the ARs assessment here. 
I appreciate that Advantage says it is reasonable to take up to a week to arrange for an AR 
to start repairs and provide a replacement car. But I think a fair outcome in this case, as Mr 
Js car wasnt driveable, is for Advantage to pay £300 for loss of use. Ive seen an email from 
Mr J to Advantage dated 16 January 2023 where he confirmed he still didnt have access to 
a replacement vehicle. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr J £300 for loss of use. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation (for loss of use) within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman