DRN-3213836
The complaint
Ms A complains about the outstanding balance she is required to pay after N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge) terminated her car finance agreement.
What happened
In March 2018, Ms A entered into a 49 month personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement 
for a used car. The agreement total was £8,009, she was required to pay monthly 
instalments of £116 followed by an optional final payment of £2,305.
Around May 2019, Ms A was made redundant and as a result she suffered financial 
hardship. She made Northridge aware in August 2019 and they applied a breathing space 
on the account. In November 2019, Northridge issued a notice of default for the arrears 
amount of £467. As this wasnt paid, the agreement was terminated in March 2020 and a 
default applied. The account was transferred to a company who I will refer to as T in order to 
repossess the car. However there were delays in doing so as Ts collection activity had been 
temporarily suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
In the meantime, there was back and forth between Ms A, Northridge and T about how much 
she was required to pay to settle the agreement in full as she wanted to keep the car.  
According to Ms A, she received conflicting information and figures about this. 
The car was eventually collected and sold at auction in August 2020, the sales proceeds of 
£2,680 was paid towards the outstanding balance but there was a shortfall of £3,426 which 
Northridge said Ms A must pay. She complained.
Northridge said it was made clear to Ms A that she could either settle the agreement in full to 
keep the car or it would be repossessed. They said as this didnt happen, the car was 
repossessed meaning she was liable for the shortfall following its sale. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld as they were satisfied Northridge had acted fairly and 
in line with the agreement. Ms A disagreed. She maintained her position and said she made 
an offer to pay £5,600 to settle the agreement but this wasnt accepted by Northridge. As 
they werent willing to accept the offer, she didnt believe she was responsible for paying the 
shortfall. She wants Northridge to write off the outstanding balance and remove the default.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint, Ill explain why. 
Termination of the agreement
Firstly, I wish to say Im sorry to hear Ms A suffered from financial difficulty, I understand this 
wouldve been a difficult time for her. In such circumstances, the CONC guidance which can 
be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook says the financial business 
should treat the consumer with forbearance and due consideration. Theres not a defined list 
as to what steps should be taken but it may include measures such as payment holidays, 
temporarily freezing the interest, agreeing to accept reduced payments, etc. 
Based on Northridges contact notes, Ms A made them aware of her financial difficulty and 
change of address in August 2019, which was a few months after she was made redundant. 
The last payment towards the agreement was in May 2019. Once Northridge was aware of 
the situation, they applied a breathing space, meaning no interest or charges would be 
applied for a temporary period of time. Having reviewed the account statement I can see this 
is what happened. According to Northridge, they also spoke to Ms A about options to end 
the agreement early in September 2019 however I have no evidence to show this happened 
so I cant reasonably say this conversation did take place or what was discussed. However 
based on what I do know about the breathing space, Im satisfied Northbridge demonstrated 
forbearance and due consideration by putting this measure in place to support her. 
By October 2019, it would appear Ms As circumstances hadnt changed as she told 
Northridge she remained without employment. In response they said the breathing space 
couldnt apply indefinitely. I note by this time, the account was at least five months in arrears. 
In November 2019, Northridge issued a default notice, I consider this to be reasonable given 
the circumstances. I say this because Northridge had provided a fair amount of time for Ms A 
to secure further employment, bring the account up to date and they had frozen interest and 
charges. Despite this, there was no indication Ms A was in a position to pay the arrears and 
resume paying the contractual payments. Having read the default notice, I can see it was 
made clear what would happen should the amount not be paid by the deadline. 
In response, Ms A advised Northridge that she was due to start a new job but she wouldnt 
be able to meet the default notice deadline of 25 November 2019 but she would be able to 
pay on 22 December 2019. However theres no evidence any payment was made. Later in 
January 2020, she told them the employment offer fell through but she had secured another 
one and she would be able to pay in February 2020 but based on the account statement, no 
payment was received. 
In line with the terms of the agreement, Northridge proceeded to terminate the agreement in 
March 2020. I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Northridge to allow the arrears to 
increase indefinitely so I believe their decision to terminate the contract and to start the 
process of repossessing the car was a reasonable one.
Repossession of the car
When a car finance agreement is terminated, the car is repossessed and the consumer is 
liable to pay the outstanding balance. Based on evidence, Im satisfied Ms A hadnt paid a 
third of the total amount payable therefore Northridge wasnt required to obtain a court order 
to repossess the car. The car wasnt collected immediately as one would expect following 
the termination but this was beyond the control of either party due to the pandemic.
 
While waiting for the car to be taken back, there were a number of conversations between 
Ms A, Northridge and T which Ive listened to. On at least one occasion she told Northridge 
to go ahead with the repossession but in later calls she asked how much it would be to settle 
the agreement in full and to retain the car. Northridge confirmed on several occasions across 
different calls that it was necessary to pay £5,9733 to settle the agreement so I dont agree with Ms As comments that she was given conflicting information and she was told it would 
be £5,790. 
Ms A has mentioned she offered to pay £5,600 to settle the agreement but this wasnt 
accepted by Northridge. During the calls, shes also said if the car was taken back and sold 
at auction for less than £5,600 she wouldnt be held liable to pay any shortfall. Northridge 
said they have no record of this offer and based on the evidence Ive seen there is no 
indication of such a conversation. Even if I was to accept this was discussed, it wouldve 
been at Northridges discretion whether or not to accept it. This is because the proposed 
offer by Ms A was less than the outstanding balance. There is nothing in the terms that said 
Northridge must agree to settle the agreement for less than what they are contractually 
entitled to. Therefore if this conversation did take place, I dont think Northridges refusal to 
accept the offer was unfair.
Despite Ms A expressing her intention and ability to settle the account in full, there is no 
evidence any payment was received so I find it was reasonable for the car to be 
repossessed in August 2020. In such circumstances, its usual practice that the car would be 
sold and the net sale proceeds would be paid towards the balance outstanding. In this case, 
thats what happened, the car was sold in August 2020 and £2,680 was credited to the 
account thereby lowering the outstanding balance owed by Ms A. I know Ms A doesnt 
believe she should be liable for the shortfall of £3,426 however based on the terms of the 
agreement, I find she is contractually liable to pay this amount as its owed to Northridge. 
Overall, I believe Northridge demonstrated forbearance and due consideration during Ms As 
time of financial difficulty. In line with the terms of the agreement, I believe they acted fairly in 
deciding to terminate the agreement and to repossess the car. Im satisfied Ms A is 
responsible for paying the outstanding balance so it wont be asking Northridge to remove 
the default, write off the outstanding balance or reimburse the monthly instalments as Ms A 
has asked.
Lastly, if Ms A is still suffering financial difficulty I wish to remind Northridge that they should 
treat the situation with forbearance and due consideration when deciding how best for Ms A 
to pay the balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman