DRN-3199477
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his pension. So, he contacted NTM for advice. Mr M met with NTM in September 2017 
and they completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. 
It noted that Mr M was 45; he was separated; he owned his own home; he had an 
outstanding mortgage of around £80,000 with a remaining term of 18 years; and Mr Ms 
objective was to retire at 55 and have an income of £1,500 net per month.
NTM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms risk appetite, which they deemed to be 
Average or small to medium. 
In October 2017 Mr Ms employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Toward the end of October 2017, NTM issued a suitability letter advising Mr M to transfer his 
BSPS benefits to a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in an investment 
fund which NTM deemed matched Mr Ms attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report 
said the key reasons for this recommendation were:
To take control of his pension and away from the control of his employer  Mr M was 
concerned about the changes to the BSPS.
While the DB scheme would provide Mr M with better income benefits, a transfer to a 
personal pension arrangement would meet Mr Ms objective for flexible benefits and 
the ability to vary his income in retirement.
It enabled Mr M to pass on his pension to his family upon his death.
It gave him the option to retire early.
Mr M accepted the advice and around £425,000 was transferred to Mr Ms new personal 
pension. 
In 2021, using the services of a representative Mr M complained to NTM about the suitability 
of the transfer advice.
NTM didnt provide a final response to Mr Ms complaint  so on the assumption that it didnt 
uphold his complaint, Mr M referred his complaint to our Service. An investigator upheld the 
complaint. They thought the opportunity to improve on the benefits available through the DB 
scheme was low  something NTM noted itself in the recommendation letter. While they said 
this alone didnt mean the advice was unsuitable, they didnt think they were any other 
compelling reasons for the transfer. For example they said Mr M didnt need flexibility; life 
assurance couldve been set up instead to cater for lump sum death benefits; and overall 
remaining in the DB scheme wouldve met most of Mr Ms objectives. They said NTM 
shouldve advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2 and they recommended that NTM should 
compensate Mr M for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension and that 
compensation should be based on him having opted to join the BSPS2. 
NTM disagreed. In summary it said:
The investigator had mis-applied the rules  specifically COBS 19.1.6G  and 
incorrectly used this as the starting point for suitable advice and not COBS 9.
At the time BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. This as well as the time sensitive 
nature of the guaranteed transfer value needs to be taken into account when 
considering the suitability of the advice.
The investigator referred to the wrong critical yield figure  the appropriate 
comparator was the PPF as this was the only certain alternative at the time. While it 
acknowledged this didnt alter the broader conclusion that the investment return 
required to match the scheme benefits wasnt viable, it makes the performance a lot 
closer. As a consequence it believes the other factors in favour of transferring do not 
have as much to outweigh.
The investigator failed to identify and given proper weight to Mr Ms objectives. He 
wanted to retire at 55, draw an income of £1,500 a month, have access to a higher 
tax-free cash lump sum and to support his children after his death all of which were 
met by transferring. Neither the proposed BSPS2 nor the PPF met Mr Ms objective.
Mr M accepted that his overall income would decrease as a result of transferring, but 
overall income wasnt his priority. The advice was suitable and transferring was in Mr 
Ms best interests.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
I can see that NTM referred to the regulatory requirements it was under a duty to abide by 
and said the investigator had made the wrong assumptions about the starting point. As Ive 
set out above, I agree that COBS 9 deals with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability, including COBS 9.2.1 which says NTM was 
required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr M was 
suitable for him. But additional regulations apply to advising on transferring out of DB 
schemes. These additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a 
DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain 
why.
Financial viability 
NTM produced a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  referred to as the critical yield. It appears this 
was based on his existing scheme benefits. But Mr M didnt have the option to remain in the 
BSPS. At the time the TVAS was produced, the BSPS2 was formally announced as 
progressing. 
And at the time the suitability report was produced and sent to Mr M, which was in the latter 
part of October 2017, details of the scheme had been provided (its also possible 
Mr M had received his Time to Choose information.) The BSPS2 wouldve offered the 
same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible 
this may not have gone ahead, but I still think the benefits available to Mr M through the 
BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision. Afterall, Mr M either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the 
PPF. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 45 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork said he wanted to retire 
early at 55 if it was possible. The TVAS set out the relevant critical yields; at age 55 it was 
10.9% if he took a full pension or 8.66% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The 
critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 7.19% if Mr M took 
a full pension and 6.58% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. But as Ive said 
above, Mr M remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option at the time of the advice. 
So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. 
But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
Average attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical 
yield was 6.58%, which was based on Mr M taking a reduced pension and a cash lump sum 
through the PPF at age 55. The critical yield if Mr M took the same benefits through his 
existing scheme at 55 was 8.66%. So, if Mr P were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same 
benefits at age 55, I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, 
but most likely closer to 8.66%. Given the discount rate of 3.7% and the regulators middle 
projection rate of 5%, I think Mr M was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value 
than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of 
investing in line with an Average appetite for risk. And I dont think the position was any 
different under the PPF.
In my view to have come close to achieving the level of growth required would have required 
Mr M to take significantly higher investment risk than hed indicated he was willing to take. 
And even then I think its more likely than not Mr M would be worse off financially at 
retirement if he transferred out.
I can see that NTM said the investigator referred to the wrong critical yield figure  the 
appropriate comparator was the PPF as this was the only certain alternative at the time. But 
Ive already said why I think NTM shouldve provided critical yield figures based on the 
BSPS2. And in any event, this doesnt alter the overall conclusion that Mr M was likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred 
to a personal pension. So given Mr M was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. I can see that in its suitability report, NTM said that it felt the critical yields 
were too high and that it would be difficult to justify recommending a transfer out of the 
BSPS for this factor alone. I think in the circumstances NTM shouldve stopped there and not 
recommended the transfer for this reason alone. But I accept, as NTM has argued in this 
case and as it went on to set out in the suitability letter, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations, which mean 
a transfer is suitable and in Mr Ms best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income need
NTM has said Mr M had a clear objective to retire at 55 and draw an income of £1,500 a 
month and that he couldnt achieve this by remaining in his DB scheme.
Ive already said that I dont think it was financially viable for Mr M to transfer out to meet this 
objective. But importantly here, Mr M was only 45  he still had 10 years to go before he 
wanted to think about accessing his pension. And while I accept he might reasonably have 
begun to think about his retirement plans, Im not persuaded that his plans could reasonably 
be described as set in stone. For example Mr M had not clearly thought about his 
expenditure needs in retirement  the income and expenditure recorded in the fact-find can, 
in my view, only reasonably be described as sparse. I can see this was something NTM 
acknowledged in a file note of an advice meeting following the issuing of the suitability letter. 
Here it says Mr M wasnt clear on his expenditure because of his recent divorce and 
because his wife took care of things. But if Mr M didnt know his expenditure needs now, he 
wasnt in a position to know what they would be at 55 and so what his income need would 
be. Ill come back to this again.
Furthermore nothing about Mr Ms circumstances leads me to conclude he had a real need 
to retire at 55. Mr M had a mortgage  but he didnt need to repay it at this time. From what I 
can see it was on a repayment basis with a remaining term of 18 years, so the balance was 
reducing. And it appears to have been affordable. Mr Ms other debts were also serviceable 
from his income and would likely be repaid in the relative short term. So I dont think Mr M 
needed to access his tax-free cash at 55 to repay these. Its recorded that Mr M wanted a 
lump sum to possibly help his children out to buy a house. But I think this was only a 
possibility at the time. I can see that it was noted that people in Mr Ms profession have a 
lower life expectancy  but its also recorded that Mr G was in good health. So I dont think 
Mr Ms health demonstrates a need to retire early at 55.
I accept Mr M likely told NTM, when asked, that he wanted to retire early  I think if asked 
most people would say the same thing. But NTMs role wasnt simply to facilitate a 
customer's objective and what Mr M might have thought he wanted. Mr Ms desire to retire 
early doesnt outweigh NTMs responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and act in his 
best interests.
So I dont think NTM should have advised Mr M to transfer out for the possibility of him being 
able to retire early when I dont think he had concrete plans to do so at this stage. Because 
of this Im not persuaded Mr M had a genuine need for flexibility in how or when he took his 
pension benefits, or that it was a real objective at this stage  I think it was simply a 
consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement.
Of course Mr M already had the option to retire early - he didnt have to transfer out to 
achieve this. But if Mr Ms needs developed later on and he had reason to transfer, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
many years away. While this wouldnt have been possible if Mr Ms scheme moved to the 
PPF, if he opted to join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to 
retirement, if indeed it was required. 
Turning to Mr Ms income need and notwithstanding the above, NTM appears to have 
recommended the transfer because Mr M couldnt achieve his income objective of £1,500 
per month by remaining in his DB scheme. Ive already said above that I dont think a 
transfer was financially viable. And as I also touched on above, Im not persuaded that NTM 
did enough to interrogate Mr Ms retirement income objective to determine whether or not it 
was realistic or achievable. Crucially NTM did not carry out a thorough expenditure in 
retirement analysis to determine whether £1,500 a month was what Mr M actually needed to 
fulfil his retirement goals. Mr Ms comment recorded in the file note that he was sure he 
could live comfortably off this figure was not based on any analysis and I dont think it was 
reasonable for NTM to have relied on it.
I also think in the circumstances, as part of the analysis it wouldve been helpful to show 
Mr M what income he could expect from his DB scheme at say age 60 to show how delaying 
his retirement goal by five years increased the income he could expect. Mr Ms outstanding 
mortgage balance at this time would have been significantly lower as it only had a couple 
more years to run - so Mr M wouldnt have a need for a large cash lump sum. NTM couldve 
then explored the role Mr Ms workplace Defined Contribution scheme along with his DB 
scheme couldve played in meeting his needs.
Ultimately, NTM had to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits 
available through the BSPS2 or the PPF was in Mr M's best interest. And as part of this, I 
think it was necessary to carry out this analysis. Importantly, if NTM didnt think Mr Ms plans 
were realistic it shouldve made that clear to him. This wouldve given Mr M the information 
and opportunity to re-consider things, including re-thinking his target retirement income. 
Because Im not persuaded this was carried out clearly, I dont think NTM did act in Mr Ms 
best interests and I dont think Mr M was able to make an informed decision.
Control and death benefits
The suitability report recorded that Mr M wanted his family to benefit from his pension upon 
his death  albeit I also note it said this was a secondary priority.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M given the circumstances. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think the potential 
for different or greater death benefits should have been prioritised over this and Mr Ms 
security in retirement. 
And I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Ms death was dependent on investment 
returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or investment returns were lower than expected, there 
may not have been a large sum to pass on anyway.
I think NTM ought reasonably to have known that Mr M had generous death-in-service cover 
through his employer if he died before retirement. So he already had lump sum death 
benefits available, which he could nominate his children to receive if he hadnt already done 
so. And it also knew that Mr M was paying into the current DC scheme and he wouldve been able to nominate his children as beneficiaries of this plan too  again if he hadnt 
already done so. 
I can see that NTM produced a life assurance quote based on a whole of life policy but this 
was discounted by NTM due to its cost. But the quote was simply based on the transfer 
value. I think if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children over and above that 
which was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think NTM shouldve instead explored additional 
life insurance properly. 
In my view the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr M how much he would ideally like 
to leave to his family, after taking into account the above existing means. And this couldve 
been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be affordable 
to provide given Mr Ms age, his recorded good health and the level of his disposable 
income. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease in retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think NTM 
did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr M to meet this objective.
Concerns over BSPS
The advice paperwork makes reference to Mr Ms concerns about his pension scheme and 
specifically about it moving to the PPF. And I have no doubt that Mr M was concerned about 
his pension at this time  there was lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. I think this is 
likely the reason Mr M sought advice in the first place and its possible that Mr M was 
considering transferring because of these concerns about his employer and what might 
happen.
But it was NTMs obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr M through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ms concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that NTM shouldve 
reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr M through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of 
the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed 
this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
importantly the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns shouldve led to NTM recommending Mr M transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr M was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr M. But NTM wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. Im not persuaded Mr Ms 
early retirement plans were sufficiently established at the time of the advice to justify a need 
for flexibility of income. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, 
whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By transferring to a personal arrangement Mr M 
was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other 
particular or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at 
this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. While Mr M said he wanted to 
retire at 55, Im not persuaded this was set in stone. Mr M had ten years before he said he 
wanted to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, I don't 
think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable 
reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if his needs demanded 
it. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous 
under the BSPS2. So, I think NTM shouldve advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against NTMs 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against NTMs advice. I say this because, while 
Mr M was motivated to transfer when he approached NTM, on balance, I still think Mr M 
wouldve listened to and followed NTMs advice if things had happened as they should have 
and it recommended he opt into BSPS2. Mr M was an inexperienced investor who in my 
view neither possessed the necessary knowledge, skill nor confidence to go against the 
advice they were given. Furthermore Mr Ms pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision at the time. So, if NTM had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms fear about the PPF was so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If NTM had explained 
that Mr M could likely meet all of his objectives by re-considering his retirement and income 
plans following proper analysis and without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M would have insisted on transferring 
out of his scheme against NTMs advice.
In light of the above, I think Vale should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £500 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
NTM  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr M. Taking everything into account,  including that I consider 
Mr M is at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. And I think an award of £500 is fair in all the 
circumstances.   
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr M has chosen not to wait for the new rules / guidance to come into effect to settle his 
complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for NTMs unsuitable advice. I think NTM shouldve 
advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2 - so is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 
that should be used for comparison purposes.
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, compensation should be based on Mr Ms normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
NTM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date NTM receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes NTM to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect NTM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
In addition to require NTM Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr M £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience the unsuitable advice has caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
NTM Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
NTM Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman