DRN-3352657
The complaint
Mr F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services incorrectly recorded adverse information on his credit file and failed to amend it 
when requested.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr F contacted VWFS and agreed a payment arrangement on a balance 
due for excess mileage. During the call he was advised that his credit file wouldnt be 
impacted.
In March 2021 Mr F was declined finance for a new kitchen due to the balance for excess 
mileage being reported on his credit file. He had to sell some shares to raise funds to pay for 
the kitchen. Mr F contacted VWFS and asked for his credit file to be amended and it agreed.
Mr F was later declined finance for a new car. In November 2021 he contacted VWFS to 
complain that his credit file hadnt been amended.
VWFS upheld the complaint. It said a balance due for excess mileage charges shouldnt 
impact a credit file and acknowledged that Mr Fs credit file shouldve been amended in 
March 2021. If offered a goodwill payment of £450.
Mr F wasnt happy with VWFSs response and complained to this service. He says hes lost 
money because the shares he had to sell have subsequently increased in value.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she couldnt be certain that the adverse 
information recorded by VWFS was the sole reason for Mr Fs finance applications being 
declined, and that she didnt think it was fair to ask VWFS to compensate Mr F for the 
increase in value of the shares. The investigator was persuaded that VWFS had given 
particularly bad service and had taken a long time to resolve the situation. The investigator 
said that VWFS should increase the offer of compensation to £700.
VWFS didnt agree. It said the compensation it had offered already was fair.
Mr F didnt agree either. He said compensation of £700 wasnt enough because hed had to 
pay cash for a kitchen when he should have been able to get interest free credit if his credit 
score hadnt been impacted by VWFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Fs credit report and credit score, and I can see that the credit score 
reduced in March 2021. VWFS hasnt been able to confirm exactly when it added the 
adverse information, but it has said that it wouldve been around February 2021. I can see 
any other adverse information on Mr Fs credit file, so I think its likely that it was VWFSs 
entry which affected Mr Fs credit score.
Mr F has provided evidence to show that he had two finance applications declined in March 
2021 and May 2021. The lender hasnt provided Mr F with a reason for the applications 
being declined, other than to say that the lending criteria werent met.
In order to be satisfied that the adverse information reported by VWFS was the sole reason 
for Mr Fs finance applications being declined, Id need to see conclusive evidence of this 
from the lender. In this case, there isnt enough evidence to show that VWFS was the sole 
cause of the application being declined. Because there are lots of reasons why finance can 
be declined, Im unable to safely conclude that the reason for the decline was the adverse 
information reported by VWFS.
Mr F has explained that, having been declined for finance, he had to sell some shares to pay 
for his new kitchen. Ive seen evidence that Mr F sold some shares.
Mr F has said that the shares increased in value after he sold them, and that if he hadnt had 
to sell them to pay for the kitchen, they would be worth £20,000 more now. Ive looked at the 
share price history and whilst I agree with Mr F that it increased over the following months, it 
has also decreased since then. Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr F would have sold 
the shares at any given point in time so any loss he has suffered is at best a potential loss. 
In the circumstances, and even if I was persuaded that the information reported by VWFS 
was the sole cause of Mr Fs applications for finance being declined, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask VWFS to compensate Mr F for a potential loss.
Taking everything into account, I think VWFS has made errors and provided poor service. 
The payment arrangement for the excess mileage charges shouldnt have been reported on 
Mr Fs credit file in the first place, so this was an error. VWFS has acknowledged that it 
shouldve removed the information when Mr F first raised the issue in March 2021, but for 
reasons which havent been fully explained by VWFS, the credit file wasnt amended. The 
information remained on Mr Fs credit file for several months. Mr F had to contact VWFS 
again about the same issue in November 2021. I think VWFS provided poor service when it 
failed to remove the adverse information in March 2021, and poor service in failing to amend 
the credit file for a period of several months. Im persuaded that Mr F has been caused a 
significant degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of VWFSs error and poor 
service and I agree with the investigator that the compensation should be increased to £700.
Putting things right
To put things right, VWFS should pay total compensation of £700 to Mr F for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him by its error and its service shortcomings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
trading as Audi Financial Services must pay total compensation of £700 to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman