DRN-4180960
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who were taking 
premiums for another persons plan, from Mrs F, without her knowledge. 
What happened
Mrs F bought a TV around eight and a half years ago and took out insurance. Her TV broke 
down and she was referred to D&G to make a claim. D&G told Mrs F that she had cancelled 
that policy on 6 April 2022. Mrs F disputed this, as she said she didnt request the 
cancellation. 
In November 2022, Mrs F was called by the retailer whom she purchased some appliances 
from, to see if she wished to insure a washing machine, tumble drier and TV. Mrs F said that 
it was agreed to insure all three items and she thought she was paying the following 
premiums of £6.49 per month for the TV, £8.49 for the washing machine and £8.99 for the 
tumble drier. But D&G said that only the washing machine and the drier were being paid for, 
not the TV. 
Mrs F said that she found out that she was in fact paying for someone elses insurance 
products. She contacted her bank to make an indemnity claim and also asked D&G to 
cancel all her policies. Mrs F said that D&G agreed to reimburse all the premiums taken from 
November 2022. She said that it told her that the error was either due to a system failure or 
an administrative. And in its final response, it offered £20.00 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Mrs F was unhappy with the outcome and as she had been given her referral rights, referred 
a complaint to our service. She also said that there was a possibility of a data breach as she 
was given the third partys details over the phone. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her 
view was that D&G didnt set up the policies in November 2022, using Mrs Fs account 
details, it was the retailer of the appliances. And she was satisfied that Mrs F cancelled her 
TV policy (as there was a recorded call of her doing so) she concluded that the £20 
compensation offered was fair. So, she didnt recommend that D&G do anything else to 
resolve the claim. 
D&G accepted the view. Mrs F did not. She disputed that she cancelled the policy. She said 
that she hadnt received a full refund of all the premiums paid. She said that she was very 
disappointed with D&G not only for taking money out of her account but for also breaching 
data, with seemingly no follow-up. Finally, she felt that the £20.00 compensation was an 
insult. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs F, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision and why I think it is fair. 
I have considered both parties comments in my assessment of all the evidence. Mrs F has 
raised a number of specific points. These are that she disputed cancelling the insurance on 
her TV. She said that she hadnt received a full refund of the premiums paid. And finally, she 
felt that the £20 compensation wasnt fair in the circumstances. So, I will concentrate my 
findings on the specific points raised by Mrs F. 
Mrs F said that she didnt cancel her policy. D&G said that she called and cancelled the 
policy over the phone. D&G relied upon the call recording of the conversation. I have 
listened to the recording, and Im aware that Mrs F has been provided with a copy of the 
recording. 
During the recording Mrs Fs personal details were taken, such as her address with 
postcode. Mrs F tells the advisor that she wishes to cancel her policy regarding her TV. The 
advisor cancels her policy as per her request. 
Mrs F confirmed that she received this recording. I note that she hasnt disputed that it is her 
on the recording. So, Im persuaded that it was Mrs F who cancelled the policy that covered 
her TV. And as she cancelled that policy, D&G were correct in informing her that there was 
no cover on the TV.  
Mrs F said that she hadnt received a full refund of the premiums that had been taken from 
her bank account. I understand that she submitted an indemnity to her bank. And from the 
evidence that I have read, it refunded all but one of the premiums. 
D&G confirmed and provided evidence to show that it refunded the last payment that Mrs F 
didnt receive from her bank. Mrs F has now also confirmed that she has received all the 
refunds. So, Im satisfied that she hasnt suffered from any financial loss, as a result of the 
premiums being taken erroneously from her account.  
I have next considered the level of compensation. Mrs F has expressed that she would like a 
far greater amount of compensation, given that she felt that D&G breached data and that it 
was D&G who took premium payments from her, either due to an administrative error or 
system failure. 
Dealing with the possible breach of data, our service does not have the remit to determine 
whether there has been a breach of the privacy laws, this is for the Information 
Commissioners Office to decide. Accordingly, Mrs F, will need to raise any issues regarding 
breaches of data, directly with them.
In its final response, D&G offered compensation of £20.00 for the poor service that Mrs F 
experienced. D&G explained that its complaint team attempted to contact Mrs F several 
times to discuss the issues, but she didnt answer the calls, nor did she respond to the letters 
it sent. 
It further said that in total Mrs F had phone contact with D&G on three occasions. Albeit one 
of the calls lasted around 40 minutes, as this was due to when it was discovered that Mrs F 
had been paying for someone elses plan. And because of this call in particular, D&G offered 
the compensation, based on Mrs Fs time spent, in discussing the issue. D&G has provided evidence to show that when Mrs F purchased the insurance in November 
2022, the retailer that she bought the appliances from, dealt with the sale of the insurance 
policies. It appears that it was either a system error or that the agent inputted incorrect 
information. The agent had contacted another customer and inadvertently used Mrs Fs bank 
details to set up two new policies, by having used pre-existing details, which were supposed 
to be another customer. So, the fault was with a third-party and not D&G. 
Mrs F hasnt provided me with any evidence to refute this, so Im persuaded that it was more 
likely than not, that the retailers of the appliances, who sold Mrs F the policies, made the 
error. Consequently, I cant agree that D&G were at fault here. And I do think, that the 
£20.00 offered by way of compensation, for Mrs Fs time, was fair in the circumstances. 
Whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs F will be, I cant agree that D&G did anything 
wrong here. As soon as Mrs F contacted them about the error, it rectified it. And I think that 
she didnt have to contact D&G an unreasonable number of times to resolve it. 
Further, I cant agree that there was enough evidence to show that it was D&G who made 
the original error, regarding the set-up of the policies. I also think that this was the fault of a 
third-party. 
In addition, Mrs F has been fully refunded, her policies cancelled in line with her instructions, 
and she has been paid compensation of £20, which I think is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask 
D&G to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman