DRN-3155020
The complaint
Miss K complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) for incorrectly recording the amount of 
a deposit she made. She thinks that HSBCs investigation processes were inadequate and 
caused her additional worry and distress. She wants HSBC to increase its offer of 
compensation.  
What happened
Following her wedding, Miss K attended a branch of HSBC to deposit cash which had been 
gifted to her. 
She handed over £4805 in cash and a cheque. 
The cashier gave her a receipt, which incorrectly showed £3805, plus the amount of the 
cheque. 
Miss K did not notice this immediately and left the bank. She later checked her balance and 
noticed that the amount was £1000 different from what it ought to have been. 
Miss K contacted HSBC right away. She wanted to speak to someone in branch and to ask 
them to carry out a till reconciliation to find the additional cash. 
Miss K had to make a number of calls and was not able to speak to the branch quickly. 
She was anxious that this money would not be located so she attended the branch two days 
later to try to speak to someone. 
HSBC launched an investigation, but as the deposit slip detailed the wrong amount this did 
not properly reflect the issue. 
The branch carried out a till reconciliation a week after the original deposit and the cash was 
found. It was then credited back to Miss K. 
Miss K complained. She felt that the anxiety this caused her had spoiled the gesture of 
friends and family giving her money as a gift. 
HSBC sent Miss K its final response. It acknowledged that the cash had now been found 
and credited to her and offered her £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Miss K was not happy and contacted us. 
While our investigator was looking into this matter, HSBC offered Miss K a further £100 
compensation, making the compensation total £200. Our investigator upheld Miss Ks 
complaint but considered that the compensation offered was now reasonable. 
Miss K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She felt that HSBCs 
practices were wrong, and that the compensation offered was insufficient to reflect her worry 
and upset.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As my colleague explained, we are not able to consider whether regulatory rules have been 
properly followed, or to scrutinise HSBCs processes. That is the role of the regulator. Our 
role is to look at individual situations and whether the consumer has been treated fairly. 
Where they have not, we can award compensation to reflect this. 
I can understand Miss Ks worry. I have listened to the calls and it is clear that she did not 
feel the actual issue was being understood at first. This was that whilst the paperwork all 
matched, this did not match the amount of cash she had handed over. She was 
understandably anxious that the additional cash in the tills be located and returned to her, as 
quickly as possible. 
I appreciate that, and I agree that in this case HSBC did not act quickly enough to find and 
return the cash to Miss Ks account, to minimise her anxiety. I do, however, appreciate that 
HSBC did find and return the cash a week later. 
HSBC has made an offer of compensation of £200 to reflect Miss Ks worry. I understand 
that Miss K does not think this sufficient, but I think that this offer is reasonable. Miss K was 
very worried and anxious, and took steps to contact the branch, including attending in 
person despite being at greater risk of harm in the pandemic. 
I do, however, note that the duration of Miss Ks worry was relatively short, and the matter 
was resolved. I also note that HSBC has responded positively and made an offer quickly. 
I therefore think that the offer made is reasonable and is in line with other awards we would 
make in similar circumstances. 
Consequently, I uphold Miss Ks complaint, but think that HSBC has made a reasonable 
offer of compensation. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay to Miss K a total of £200 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ks complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay to Miss K a total of £200 compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman