DRN-3823052
The complaint
Mr A says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Credit Cards, closed his card
despite agreeing this would not happen if he made payment on or by 4 January 2022.
What happened
On 7 December 2021 Tesco issued a default notice to Mr A. He had not made any payments
since May 2021. This explained that if he did not make a payment of £514.95 before 3
January 2022 his account would be closed, and a default registered with the credit reference
agencies. On 15 December 2021 Mr A called Tesco as he wanted to resolve this. Tesco
says it told Mr A as 3 January 2022 was a bank holiday he had up to 4 January 2022 to
make his payment.
Mr A made the payment on 4 January 2022, but after 6pm and so it did not reach his credit
card account until the following day. This meant his card was closed. Mr A says this is
contrary to the advice he was given on the phone. His card was subsequently declined when
he went to use it, this caused him embarrassment and left him unable to support himself
financially.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint in part. She found Tesco had fairly terminated
Mr As account, in line with its terms and conditions, as payment had not reached it until 5
January 2022. The IVR message he would have heard on 4 January 2022, when he made 
the payment after 6pm, would have said two working days should be allowed for payments
made after 6pm. And the information on the back of each statement explains this too.
She did however think Tesco ought to have started the default process sooner given Mr A
had made no payment since May 2021 and failed to meet previous payment plans. She said
it should backdate the default to July 2021. And she felt as Mr A had understood he could
make the payment anytime on 4 January 2022, and says he wasnt told otherwise, Tesco
has caused some avoidable distress and inconvenience for Mr A. To recognise this she said
it must pay him £50 compensation.
After this assessment, Tesco said it was confused why we had concluded that it had been
supportive - yet also unreasonable by not defaulting the account sooner.
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in summary, he has always tried to sort
out his finances with Tesco, but it has been hard. He suffers from anxiety and depression.
But he made this required payment on the right date. He accepts it was after 6pm but says
the adviser he spoke to promised if he made the payment by that date he would be able to
keep using his card  no specific time was agreed. He feels he kept his side of the
agreement and Tesco hasnt. He says we must listen to the multiple calls he had with the
bank as he wasnt told once he had to pay before 6pm.
He wants his account to be re-opened; to be allowed to make the minimum payment to clear
the balance; the default to be removed; and compensation to be paid for the distress he has
suffered. He says backdating the default is not right at all as its not valid and Tesco hadnt
deemed a default should be applied, just our investigator.
I made different findings in places to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties for any comments by 
24 November 2022.  
Extract from my provisional decision
I am planning to uphold Mr As complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Tesco says that when it spoke to Mr A on 15 December 2021 it said he needed to make
payment by 4 January 2022, as the previous day was a bank holiday, and if he did so he
would be able to continue to use his card. Mr A has said there were multiple calls on which
he was promised if he paid on or by that date his card would remain active. We asked him
for the specific dates of these calls, but he wasnt able to provide them. We have gone back 
to Tesco to ask it to search for all and any calls between the parties around this time but it
hasnt been able to locate any calls, other than the start of calls on 15 December 2021 when
Mr A was then transferred to different departments, and a follow up call on 10 January 2022.
However, I dont doubt that Mr As testimony is his honest recollection that he wasnt told
there was a cut-off time. It seems from what both parties have said the cut-off time on 4
January 2022 was not discussed when Mr A called. On balance, I think its reasonable to
conclude this was not mentioned, rather than any incorrect information being provided. But
this is its standard payment processing requirement. And as other communication channels
(the statements and IVR message) made clear there was a cut-off time for payments to
reach an account I cannot fairly hold Tesco liable for Mr As payment reaching his account
after the 4 January 2022. Given the terms and conditions of the account and the default
notice that was sent on 7 December 2021 I find it was reasonable for Tesco to terminate
Mr As account. The fact Mr A hadnt made a payment since May 2021, so for eight months,
is very relevant and important context to this finding.
I can see, however, on the call on 10 January 2022 he was given incorrect information about
the status of his account (he was told it was active after the payment had been received).
For the confusion and subsequent inconvenience this caused Mr A should be compensated.
Our investigator had previously recommended he be paid £50 for the service Tesco provided
and I agree this amount of compensation should be paid to him, specifically because I have
heard that inaccurate information was given on the call on 10 January 2022. And this led to
Mr A trying to use his card and being declined, causing him embarrassment.
Mr A say his previous failure to meet payment plans is not relevant here, and that Tesco was
not going to default his account, until our investigator decided a default should be applied.
But I disagree. We would expect Tesco to consider Mr As payment history in the round
when deciding how to manage his account after he failed to make any payments from May
2021 onwards. Looking back at his statements I can see Mr As account had been in arrears
since February 2020, during 2020 he made no payment on seven occasions and in other
months paid less than the arrangement he had in place. It was for this reason our
investigator felt that whilst Tesco acted sympathetically and positively towards Mr A during
this time, it would have been fairer to default his account sooner in 2021 once he had missed
three consecutive payments.
Tesco questioned the consistency of this opinion, but I agree that there has been an unfair
and detrimental impact on Mr A as a result of not defaulting his sooner. Tesco says it could
not know that Mr A would not make the payments requested in the default notice on time,
but I think there were enough indicators earlier in his payment history to conclude he was
going to have problems repaying his debt. So I think it would have been fairer to start the
default process sooner, rather than to wait over seven months. Once Mr A had missed threeconsecutive payments, and given his payment history, I think it was clear he would most
likely be unable to make his repayments. So I find Tesco should have issued the default
notice then. This is in line with the guidance of at least three and no later than six months, as
set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). It follows I agree the default should 
be backdated, but to August 2021 as a notice would need to have been served in July 2021.
Mr A said that the default was only added as our investigator requested it to happen, but I
dont find that to be accurate. A default notice was issued on 7 December 2021, so Tesco
had clearly started the process before this service became involved. And the instruction to
Tesco to now backdate this is to Mr As advantage as it means it will remain on his credit file
for a shorter period of time. I understand that Mr A was struggling at the time and Im sorry
he had to go through this and that his health conditions exacerbate the impact, but in the
circumstances I find it was reasonable for Tesco to terminate and default his account.
I then set out what Tesco would need to do to put things right.
Tesco responded saying, in summary, the default being delayed was in the best interests of 
Mr A and shows it was acting sympathetically to his needs and circumstances. The ICOs 
guidance is just that, not an obligatory timeline. It is unfair we are now saying the default 
should have been applied sooner, now that we can see it was subsequently applied. It 
accepted Mr A was indeed given incorrect information on the call on 10 January 2022.
Mr A did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided any new evidence that I need to consider here. With regards Tescos 
comments about the timing of the default, I maintain that it did not act in the best interests of 
Mr A. I dont doubt that was its intent, but I think it made the wrong decision given Mr As 
circumstances and the ICO guidance. This was not the first time Mr A had missed payments 
- during 2020 he made no payment on seven occasions and in other months paid less than 
the arrangement-to-pay. So I think, given this context, once Mr A had then missed three 
consecutive payments in 2021 it was clear that he was most likely not going to be able to 
meet his contractual commitment. So I have not made my finding about the timing of the 
default based on hindsight as Tesco suggests, but rather based on Mr As payment history 
and what Tesco knew in July 2021.
It follows, for the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr As complaint in part. In the 
circumstances I find it was reasonable for Tesco to terminate and default his account, but it 
provided incorrect information after he made the January 2022 payment and ought to have 
defaulted his account sooner.
Putting things right
Tesco must pay Mr A directly £50 compensation for the distress it caused by giving him 
inaccurate information on 10 January 2022, and backdate the default date to August 2021.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr As complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco 
Credit Cards, must put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman