DRN-4020701
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide him with 
timely, or accurate, information about his pension savings. 
What happened
Mr S holds pension savings with Prudential. Those savings are held in two pension plans. 
Over the years Mr S says he has faced repeated problems when seeking valuations of his 
pension savings, either by phone, in writing, or using the online access provided by 
Prudential.
It appears matters came to a head in July 2022 when Mr S received an incorrect pension 
statement from Prudential. That document appeared to show valuations, and projections of 
pension income, from almost three years earlier. And although it was headed up as relating 
to one pension plan (that I will call Pension A) it does seem to show information about both 
of Mr Ss plans. It suggested that Mr Ss pension benefits might be worth £361,000 when he 
retired in January 2021. Mr S queried that information with Prudential, and asked for a 
statement on his other pension plan (that I will call Pension B) to be provided.
Prudential told Mr S that it couldnt provide any statements to him electronically so they 
would be sent out in the post. Around two weeks later Mr S received a corrected statement 
for Pension A  that showed his benefits with a corrected retirement date and a value of 
£12,989. But Mr S still didnt receive any information about Pension B. And in August 
Prudential again sent the incorrect information about his combined pension savings.
Mr S escalated the missing information with Prudential. He still didnt receive any information 
about Pension B, but he did get another copy of the incorrect statement on his overall 
benefits.  In September 2022 Mr S was finally sent some information about Pension B. But 
that covered the year to November 2020, and was based on a retirement date in 2016. That 
same statement was sent twice more later in the month.
In October 2022 Mr S was sent a new statement on his combined benefits covering the year 
ending November 2021. That showed that his potential plan value at retirement had fallen to 
£241,000. But the following month another letter was sent reminding Mr S that he was 
approaching his selected retirement date on Pension A, and that his benefits would be 
expected to be £12,765. And, in December 2022 Mr S was sent a new statement covering 
the year ending November 2022, but showing a selected retirement date of January 2016. 
That showed current transfer value to now be £185,943, but it didnt contain any information 
about Mr Ss projected benefits since Prudential said he was approaching his selected 
retirement date.
When it first considered Mr Ss complaint, Prudential accepted that it hadnt provided him 
with sufficiently timely or accurate information about his pension savings. It asked Mr S to 
get back in touch if he needed any additional information, and sent him a cheque for £225 in 
reflection of the inconvenience hed been caused. Mr S didnt accept that offer, or cash the 
cheque, and asked us to continue looking at his complaint.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Although he acknowledged 
the frustration Mr S had been caused by Prudential he didnt think the incorrect information 
had caused Mr S to lose out financially. But he didnt think that Prudential had done enough 
to resolve Mr Ss complaint. He asked Prudential to manually calculate the value of each of 
Mr Ss pension plans. And he told Prudential that it should pay Mr S more compensation for 
the inconvenience hed been caused. He said that a total payment of £350 would be 
appropriate.
Prudential accepted what the investigator had recommended. It provided updated valuations 
of Mr Ss pension savings. And it sent Mr S a further cheque for £125. But Mr S didnt think 
the compensation the investigator had suggested was sufficient. He thought a payment of 
£1,000 would be more appropriate. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Out investigator set out in some detail a timeline of Mr Ss dealings with Prudential. And 
I have provided a summary of what I consider to be the key aspects of that timeline as part 
of the background section of this decision. It doesnt seem to me that Prudential has 
challenged any aspects of that timeline, and the documentary evidence that Mr S has 
provided supports his testimony about the information he was sent.
There is no doubt that, for an extended period of time, Prudential either failed to send any 
information, or sent incorrect information, to Mr S about his pension benefits. Prudential has 
explained to Mr S that it was undertaking a series of enhancements to its computer systems. 
And so, during that time, it faced some unexpected issues that impacted its ability to deal 
with customer enquiries in the manner or speed that might normally be expected. 
I think it is important to reiterate my role at this point of my final decision. It does seem that 
the problems behind the systems failures that have led to Mr Ss complaint were more 
widespread than just his pension accounts. But that isnt a matter for me to consider here  
that is something that would need to be reviewed, if appropriate, by the regulator. Here, my 
only focus is to consider the impact that those delays caused to Mr S.
In his responses to our investigators assessments, Mr S has explained the impact of the 
problems. In summary he has told us about the distress and anxiety that he was caused by 
the delay to him taking his retirement benefits. But I havent seen anything that would make 
me think that there were any more fundamental losses caused by the problems. For example I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr S needed to change financial plans 
that were already set, or that the value of his pension savings materially fell during any 
delay. So my focus here now is to consider the impact of the delays of Mr S, and in particular 
how he should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
When it first responded to Mr Ss complaint, Prudential sent him a cheque for £225 in 
recognition of the inconvenience it had caused. I agree with our investigator that the sum 
offered by Prudential was insufficient. Our investigator asked Prudential to pay total 
compensation of £350 to Mr S for his inconvenience. Prudential accepted that 
recommendation and sent a further cheque for the balance (of £125) to Mr S. I have thought 
carefully about what level of compensation would be appropriate here.
There is no doubt that Prudential has let Mr S down in the way it has communicated with 
him. And as Mr S has explained, he has needed to spend a considerable amount of time, 
both talking to Prudential on the phone, and checking the information he was sent. But our 
investigator has set out for Mr S the general approach that we would take when considering 
what compensation might be appropriate. And having looked at this complaint I share the 
conclusions that were reached by the investigator, that a total payment of £350 would be 
appropriate.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr S. I have seen that Prudential has 
now provided details of the value of his pension investments following the investigators 
assessment. And I would expect that any future correspondence would be carefully checked 
to ensure it remains correct. But I think that a payment of £350 is a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the inconvenience that Mr S has been caused.
Putting things right
Mr S says that he hasnt cashed either of the compensation cheques that Prudential has 
sent to him. I dont know whether he still holds those uncashed cheques, or if they have 
been destroyed. But in any case I think it likely that at least one of the cheques will shortly be 
out of date.
So, Prudential should cancel both of the cheques it has previously sent to Mr S and issue 
him with a new cheque for compensation amounting to £350. Should Prudential be able to 
show that either of the previous compensation cheques have been presented by Mr S to his 
bank, the value of that cheque may be deducted from the compensation that is now due.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman