DRN-1511576
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about a further advance they took out with The Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc (RBS) in 2016. They say they wanted one mortgage, not additional borrowing 
on top of their existing mortgage. Theyre also unhappy that RBS turned them down for a 
further advance of £30,000 in 2019.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a residential mortgage with RBS. In 2016, the mortgage had around 
£121,000 outstanding, was held on a repayment basis with a remaining term of around 
19 years and was subject to a fixed rate until 30 September 2017. 
They also owned a second property that Mrs Ls parents lived in that was also subject to a 
mortgage. That mortgage had an outstanding balance of around £54,000, was held on a 
repayment basis with a remaining term of around 7 years and was on the banks standard 
variable rate (SVR).
In June 2016 Mr and Mrs L met with an RBS mortgage adviser as they wanted the second 
property to be mortgage-free. An application was completed to increase the debt on their 
residential property, and the funds from that were used to repay the mortgage on the second 
property. The new borrowing was placed on a rate that was fixed until 30 September 2018.
In September 2017 they applied online for a new rate for the first part of the mortgage as 
that rate was coming to an end. The new rate was fixed until 30 November 2019.
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs L applied online for a new rate for the second part of the 
mortgage as that rate had ended. The new rate was fixed until 31 December 2020.
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs L approached RBS for £30,000 additional borrowing which was 
turned down for affordability reasons. Unhappy with this they complained to RBS about what 
happened in 2016 and in 2019.
RBS considered Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Whilst RBS didnt uphold the main thrust of the 
complaint it said it should have been made explicitly clear to Mr and Mrs L in 2016 that the 
only way the whole mortgage debt could be on the same rate was to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) to end the existing fixed rate early. For that it offered £250 compensation. It 
also offered £50 as an apology for the time it had taken to respond to the complaint.
Our investigator thought RBSs response to the complaint was fair. Mr and Mrs L didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have set out their account of events in considerable detail. I trust they wont 
take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Although 
Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr and Mrs L have said they wanted one mortgage and thats what theyve got; its one 
mortgage with one account number and one combined payment. A mortgage account isnt 
the same thing as a mortgage product, a mortgage account can be made up of multiple 
sub-accounts, each of them on a different product. Thats still one mortgage which is what 
Mr and Mrs L asked for and what they got. 
Mr and Mrs L couldnt have had all their mortgage borrowing on the same rate in 2016 
unless they paid an ERC to end their existing fixed rate early. The ERC would have been 
about £2,400 before 30 September 2016, or about £1,200 after then (until 30 September 
2017). Equally if Mr and Mrs L wanted to move their whole mortgage elsewhere before 
30 September 2017, they would have incurred the same ERC.
Mr and Mrs L told us The reason I wanted the outstanding amount on both property put 
together was not because I could not afford the payments. It was because I wanted the 
second property to be clear of a mortgage so I could sell it. But thats not what was 
recorded at the time; the fact find states:
They wanted to keep the monthly payment to a maximum of £380 (the debt it was 
replacing cost £695 a month).
They wanted to keep their payment affordable and manageable whilst they paid for 
private schooling for one of their children and whilst they finished paying off two loans 
and some credit cards.
Your second property is habited [sic] by your parents and althoguh [sic] you would 
like them to move out so that you could sell this property the chances of this 
happening is quite slim.
Your priority is to repay the offset mortgae [sic] as you only want to have one 
payment and you want to reduce your outgoings.
The adviser sent a letter to Mr and Mrs L on 3 June 2016 which set out the reasons for her 
recommendations. In this she said:
Your main reason for doing the additional borrowing is to reduce your outgoings and 
you do not mind if this priority is met even at a cost of paying more interest in the 
long run.
We have discussed the implications of a longer Additional Borrowing term and I 
have told you the longer the term the more you will pay in interest on the capital 
borrowed.A mortgage offer was issued to Mr and Mrs L on 6 July 2016. This only contained 
information about the additional borrowing and showed it was on a rate that was fixed until 
30 September 2018 and had a loan term of 19 years and 1 month. Mr and Mrs L signed to 
accept that offer on 10 July 2016.
Subsequently, Mr and Mrs L twice made changes to their mortgage without speaking to 
RBS, the first was to change the original sub-account onto a new rate in September 2017 
and the second to move the 2016 sub-account onto a new rate in October 2018. Both times 
it was clearly set out that they had two sub-accounts that were being charged at different 
rates with different end dates for the fixed rates. The paperwork also showed both 
sub-accounts had roughly the same (longer) term. But Mr and Mrs L only complained about 
all this in 2019 after they were turned down for a further advance, saying they want to be 
released from the mortgage without an ERC so they can move the mortgage to a new 
lender.
Having considered everything Im satisfied the further advance that was set up in 2016 met 
Mr and Mrs Ls recorded aims and that all the information about it was disclosed to them at 
the time. When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs L are the ones bringing 
the complaint against RBS, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Ls version needs to be 
more likely than RBSs version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say 
Mr and Mrs Ls version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to 
uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have said I believe we were turned down because we have additional 
borrowing (which I did not know I had, thought it was one mortgage, one product). But how 
the mortgage is set up had no bearing on the 2019 lending decision. RBS would be looking 
at the overall debt irrespective of whether it was on one product or split over two products. 
So if Mr and Mrs L had one £160,000 mortgage sub-account on one product it would be 
treated in exactly the same way when deciding whether to lend them more money as a 
mortgage split as £110,000 on sub-account one and £50,000 on sub-account two (with 
different products). 
RBS would be looking at various different things when deciding whether it was willing to lend 
them more money, not just Mr and Mrs Ls external credit scores and their total annual 
incomes. It would also look at - for example - their expenditure, their use of credit, their cash 
flow, and the value of the property compared to the new total borrowing (amongst others).
Finally, Mr and Mrs L have commented on how RBS handled their complaint. Our rules set 
out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending 
money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can 
consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how RBS handled Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about. As Ive not upheld Mr and Mrs Ls complaint it 
follows I cant uphold any complaint about how RBS handled the complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs L to decide if now  on reflection  they 
want to contact The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc directly to accept the offer it previously 
made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman