DRN-3019031
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to turn down her income protection claim.
What happened
Mrs B is a member of her employers income protection scheme. The aim of the scheme is 
to provide her with an income in the event she cant work in her occupation due to injury or 
illness. The scheme has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In July 2019, Mrs B stopped work in order to have an operation. She experienced some 
symptoms after the operation, and didnt return to work for around eight months. She 
submitted a claim to L&G.
After consideration, L&G turned down the claim as it didnt think Mrs B met its policy 
definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mrs B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Based on the medical evidence, 
she thought L&Gs claims decision had been reasonable. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs B intended to provide this service with a copy of her sick notes. We havent 
yet received these; however, it isnt in any dispute that her doctor signed her off as being 
unfit to work. Ive therefore taken this into account when reaching my decision.
The policy defines incapacitated as:
illness or injury that prevents him from performing the essential duties of his 
occupation
The deferred period was 23 July 2019 to 21 January 2021, so Ive considered whether Mrs B 
has shown that she met the policy definition of incapacity throughout that period. 
In July 2019, Mrs Bs operation took place, which was a success. However, following the 
operation, Mrs B needed antibiotics to treat an infection. She then started experiencing 
stomach pain and diarrhoea. Investigations took place but these came back normal. 
Mrs Bs GP has said that she suffered complications due to the antibiotic therapy, and had 
frequent watery stools with urgency. Although Mrs B found this manageable at home, her 
GP said it would be inconvenient and embarrassing in the workplace.   
I do understand that Mrs B had gone through a difficult time. Shed received a worrying 
diagnosis and had undergone an operation, only to then have an infection and the resulting 
bowel symptoms. I also recognise that her GP signed her off as unfit to work throughout the 
relevant period.
However, I think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mrs Bs symptoms didnt prevent 
her from working for the entire 26-week deferred period. Ill explain why.
L&G has made the point that Mrs Bs role was desk-based, and reasonable adjustments 
could have been made by her employer so that she was near toilet facilities. It also says that 
Mrs B took medication for her symptoms when needed, and she was still able to go about 
her normal activities. 
Whilst I can understand that Mrs B may well have found her symptoms inconvenient and 
embarrassing, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to say that they wouldnt have 
prevented her from carrying out the main duties of her role. As L&G has said, reasonable 
adjustments couldve been made by her employer to allow her to return to work. 
A consultant gynaecologist met with Mrs B on 14 February 2020, and said she wasnt 
experiencing symptoms that would preclude her from returning to work. He said her bowel 
problems had improved at the beginning of February 2020.
I also note that shortly before Mrs B returned to work in March 2020, she was still 
experiencing her symptoms, yet she advised L&G that she didnt think this would stop her 
from working. 
Overall, I accept Mrs B couldnt work at the beginning of the deferred period due to her 
operation and subsequent infection. Although she then experienced bowel problems towards 
the end of the deferred period, these had reportedly improved by the beginning of February 
2020 (which was just after the deferred period had ended). Though in any event, the 
information from her GP only refers to her bowel symptoms as being inconvenient and 
embarrassing, which doesnt suggest that those symptoms would prevent her from carrying 
out her role. Consequently, I think it was reasonable for L&G to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman