DRN-2051156
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about his participation in a new account promotion conducted by 
Sporting Index Limited (SIL). He says SIL unfairly withheld his winnings in the new account 
he opened and/or its terms for the promotion were misleading in this respect.
What happened
The promotion was in 2019 and Mr W opened the promotional account on 9 August. The text 
for the promotion was as follows:
£100 TO SPREAD BET WITH FOR NEW ACCOUNTS*
*New clients get £100 (non-withdrawable) to bet with. Keep what you win. Any losses over 
£100 are your liability. Market restrictions & 7 day time limit apply. Tap for full T&Cs. Capital 
at risk.
The terms and conditions of the promotion included the following:
3. The Promotional Betting Cash (or any such portion of the Promotional Betting Cash still 
available) will be removed from your Promo Wallet 7 days after the date your account was 
originally credited (Promotional Period).
6. Any net profits made over and above the Promotional Betting Cash at the end of the 
Promotional Period will be yours to keep (subject to the Account Operating Rules). Any 
deposits made by you will be available for your withdrawal at any time, providing that the 
withdrawal of your deposit does not enter you into a negative balance. At the end of the 
Promotional Period, any remaining Promotional Betting Cash will be removed.
Available evidence is that, during the period relevant to the promotion and to Mr Ws 
complaint, he placed seven winning spread bets which made a total profit of £70.83 and 11 
losing spread bets which made a total loss of £36.75. The concluding account balance for 
the period was £134.08. He was allowed to retain £34.08 and SIL removed £100 from the 
account.
Mr W says this was unfair and that he should have been allowed to retain his total profit of 
£70.83, which he considers to be his winnings and which he says he was entitled to keep 
under the Keep what you win element of the promotion. He also argues that if the 
promotion intended something different then its terms did not clearly say so or they were 
misleading. SIL disagrees and says the terms for the promotion were not misleading, that 
they clearly allowed for the clients retention of net profit (as described in the terms) and that 
net profit was what Mr W retained, so it has done nothing wrong in the matter.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and agreed with SILs position. He thereafter 
engaged in correspondence with Mr W during which Mr W presented scenarios mainly 
intended to illustrate an unfair difference of treatment between the promotional accounts with 
balances above £100 at the end of the relevant period and those with balances below £100. 
The investigator acknowledged that the promotion could have different effects in these two 
broad scenarios, but he retained the view that it was conducted as advertised and as 
described in its terms. Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall and on balance, I do not find that the promotion was misleading, that there was any 
unfairness in the potential outcomes of the promotional accounts (during the relevant period) 
or that Mr Ws winnings have been unfairly withheld by SIL.
The quotes presented above are in reasonably clear language and they have relevant 
application to Mr Ws complaint. The details of his spread betting do not appear to be in 
dispute. As such, the following appears to have happened:
He started the promotional account with the £100 credit from SIL.
He made winning spread bets that generated £70.83 in profit and losing spread bets 
that generated £36.75 in losses.
At the end of the relevant period his account balance was £134.08, SIL then 
recovered the £100 credit and he was allowed to keep the rest.
The promotion and terms made very clear that the £100 credit would always belong to SIL, 
would never be for the account holder to keep and would be recoverable. The promotion 
describes it as non-withdrawable and the two terms quoted above both repeat that it (or 
any remainder of it) would be removed by SIL at the end of the relevant period. For these 
reasons I disagree with any assertion (or suggestion) that return of the £100 credit (or any 
remainder of it) to SIL at the end of the relevant period was unclear.
A similar analysis applies to the matter of what, if anything, an account holder retains after 
the relevant period. At the risk of labouring a point, I repeat that the one thing an account 
holder could not expect to retain was the £100 or any part of it; then I note, based on the 
terms, that an account holder could expect to retain only net profit above the £100 credit. 
The net effect of Mr Ws spread bets was that he made £34.08 more than he lost. This 
amount was also the surplus above £100 in the balance of his account at the end of the 
relevant period. The promotion was designed to cover an account holders losses up to £100 
during the promotion period, and at the end of that period any part of the £100 credit that 
had not been lost returned to SIL. The terms provided for this. In Mr Ws case, he lost only 
£36.75, which was more than covered by the £100 credit. The remainder of that credit 
returned to SIL and his net profit (after deduction of his loss) remained with him. 
In other words, overall, out of the closing balance of £134.08, £100 covered Mr Ws loss and 
the remainder credit that returned to SIL, and the rest was his net profit. I disagree that this 
conflicted in any way with the terms of the promotion.
I also do not consider it necessary to be drawn into exploring the four scenarios Mr W 
presented. My task is to address the issues in his complaint, not to conduct an appraisal of 
SILs promotion or of the variety of outcomes it could have produced. However, I note his 
point about unfairness in the outcomes for accounts with or without a balance over £100. I 
am not persuaded by this point and I do not perceive any such unfairness. It is indeed 
possible that an account with a concluding balance above £100 faces the return of the full 
£100 credit to SIL, whilst an account with a concluding balance below £100 faces the return 
of less than the £100 credit (or, where the credit has been depleted, faces no return of credit whatsoever). However, the terms explicitly described this by mentioning the recovery of 
either the full credit or any remainder of it. 
No unfairness appears to exist in this respect. The same initial credit is given to all the 
promotional accounts and no account is allowed to retain it or any part of it. The only real 
difference is that SIL gets to recover all of it in the accounts where none of the credit has 
been lost and it gets to recover only some (or none) of it in the accounts where some (or all) 
of the credit has been lost. I do not consider this creates an unfairness to an account holder 
in either scenario.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman