DRN-3399274
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) caused him distress and inconvenience 
when he made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
Mr Ps policy was with HomeServe Membership Limited but the policy was underwritten by 
Aviva and so his complaint is against Aviva. When I refer to Aviva, this includes agents and 
contractors acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr P had a home emergency insurance policy with Aviva and he called Aviva to book an 
engineers appointment when his boiler developed a problem. At first, Aviva told Mr P that 
his policy was invalid and then that it had been cancelled. Mr P says he spent more than an 
hour and a quarter in total on the phone before he got through to a call handler who said his 
policy was valid, meaning he could book an appointment.
When Avivas engineer visited, he found the boiler casing was rotten in one corner. This 
meant it was at risk and so the engineer turned it off. But because the boiler wasnt spilling 
any fumes internally, the engineer told Mr P the boiler was safe to use and he could switch 
it back on once the engineer had left. When Mr P switched the boiler back on, initially he had 
no hot water but this issue resolved itself.
A few days later, and after Mr P had asked Aviva for an update, Aviva told him it couldnt get 
a new boiler casing, so his boiler was beyond economic repair. Under the terms of Mr Ps 
policy, he was entitled to a replacement boiler. Aviva said a survey was needed for this and 
an appointment was arranged. Mr P then got a text message from Aviva giving the wrong 
appointment date. So Mr P had to call Aviva to make sure he had the correct date. 
After the survey, Mr P didnt hear from Aviva. He tried to contact Aviva through its webchat 
for an update but this was unsuccessful. Around a month after Aviva had first visited Mr P 
about his boiler problem, an appointment was scheduled for the new boiler to be fitted. But 
the engineer who came said the survey that had been done previously was incorrect and 
another was needed. Again, Mr P didnt hear from Aviva and so chased to get a new 
installation date. The new boiler was fitted around two weeks later.
When Mr P complained to Aviva about everything that had happened, it upheld his 
complaint. Aviva apologised for the poor service Mr P had been given and paid him £250 in 
compensation. Mr P isnt happy with Avivas offer. He would like increased compensation for 
the mental strain Aviva caused him and for the time and effort it took him to sort things out. 
So hes brought his complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ps complaint agreed the service Mr P got during the 
claim process was lower than expected. But she thought Avivas offer of £250 in 
compensation was in line with what wed recommend and so she didnt think Aviva needed 
to do anything more.
Mr P disagrees. He says compensation of £500 is just and fair given the constant stress and 
anxiety hes felt and the time and effort its taken him to sort things out. So his complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
To start with, I should explain our approach to complaints like Mr Ps. We're all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives and its not unusual to experience a certain 
level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with a financial business. So for us to 
make an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience, we need to see that the 
impact of a business's mistake on a consumer was more than someone would expect as 
part of everyday life. And its important to note that any award we make is for the impact of a 
businesss mistake on its consumer  its not for the mistake itself. 
Aviva has accepted there were a number of failings in its handling of Mr Ps claim and I think 
it was right to do so. It mustve been worrying and confusing for Mr P to be told by Aviva his 
policy wasnt valid and then that it had been cancelled. He shouldnt have had to chase for 
updates throughout the claim process, as he often had to. As Mr P says, this took him time 
and effort  and inevitably led to a delay in getting a new boiler fitted. It must also have been 
frustrating to find the correct survey hadnt been done and another was needed  so causing 
a further delay in the installation of the new boiler. Mr P has described the experience as one 
that has caused him mental strain, anxiety and stress. And he says the phone calls and 
chasing up hes had to do have cost him time and effort.
From what Ive seen, I think Avivas failings have caused Mr P considerable distress, upset 
and worry and have significantly inconvenienced him and disrupted his life considerably over 
a period of weeks. But I have to bear in mind also that, while shocking, Mr Ps experience of 
being told he didnt have cover was quite short-lived. And, although his old boiler was at 
risk, he did have full use of it in the period up to the installation of the new boiler.
Taking all of the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint into account, I think Avivas offer of £250 
in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him (and which it has 
already paid Mr P) is fair and reasonable and is in line with what we would recommend.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman