DRN-3026303
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt help him recover payments he made to an online 
trading scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2015 Mr A made a series of debit card 
payments to merchants that he says were operating an online trading scam. He says he was 
taken advantage of at a difficult time and was pressured into making these investments. 
The payments totalled over £30,000. He also received credits back into his account of 
around £5,000 from one of the merchants involved. 
In May 2019 Mr A sent our service a letter dated in January of that year in which hed asked 
TSB to raise a chargeback. He said he hadnt received a response and asked us to 
investigate. This was passed on to TSB who said they had no record of his request, but they 
would be unable to raise a chargeback due to the time that had passed. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
In summary she concluded Mr A was out of time for chargeback to be an option in relation to 
the payments. Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB can only make a chargeback under the scheme operators (VISA) rules. In response to 
our investigators view Mr A said that he had contacted TSB in branch, whilst within the time 
limit, but was told they were unable to help. TSB have provided their contact notes going 
back to 2015, they say this is where any interaction with Mr A would have been recorded. 
There is no record of Mr As contact, prior to him coming to our service in 2019. Im more 
persuaded by the evidence provided by TSB and I think its most likely that Mr A didnt ask 
TSB to raise a chargeback prior to 2019.   
The chargeback rules are clear that the absolute maximum time allowed from the date of 
transaction for a claim to be raised is 540 days. As this had already passed (for all the 
transactions) by the time TSB were informed, I dont think their decision not to pursue a 
chargeback was unreasonable. They can only act within the schemes rules and the time 
limits are clear. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr A added that he thinks TSB didnt do enough to 
protect him and his money. Whilst Ive no desire to extend the overall time that Mr A has 
been waiting for an answer, this is a new issue that I cant see hed previously raised with 
either TSB or our service. And whilst it is linked to the circumstances, it is a different 
complaint to the one already made (failure to raise a chargeback). As such it would be 
inappropriate for me to comment before TSB have had an opportunity to address it. If Mr A 
feels that TSB ought to have done more at the time, he should take this up with them and if 
he remains unhappy with their response, it may be something he could refer to our service 
(subject to our jurisdiction rules). 
Im of course sorry to hear Mr A lost so much money and I dont doubt for a moment the 
impact this must have had on him. But as I dont think TSB did anything wrong in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly tell them to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman