DRN-4213060
The complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint relates to a second charge secured loan they took out in 2010 and 
which is now owned by Prestige Finance Limited. The complaint points that fall to be 
considered under this complaint are:
They have been charged interest at an annual rate of 16.38% throughout the term of the 
loan, but the loan agreement said interest would be charged at 12.9%.
The incorrect interest rate being applied and the application of unreasonable fees and 
charges to the loan, means that they have paid too much to the loan and the balance is 
higher than it should be.
Following recent changes in financial regulation the interest rate applied to the loan was 
reduced, but they dont think it was done correctly.
They were not granted a Covid-19 payment deferral in 2020 when they asked for it.
In addition, Mr and Mrs A repeated complaint points about the arrangement of the loan and 
compliance with regulations about provision of documentation, which were the subject of an 
earlier, separate complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In settlement of the complaint Mr and Mrs A want the loan to be written off. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out their loan in 2010 with lender M. They borrowed £22,500 over a term 
of 25 years. The loan agreement set out that:
Interest at the APR [annual percentage rate] of 20.3% (variable) calculated as a total of 
£80,851.00 by reference to interest at an initial flat annual rate of 12.9% on the credit to be 
provided , which is however subject to variation in accordance with Clause 3.1 overleaf.
The annual statements sent to Mr and Mrs A by lender M detailed the interest rate that had 
actually been charged on the loan equated to an APR of 18%. So the interest rate applied to 
the loan from the time it was advanced was lower than that detailed in the loan agreement. 
The annual statements show that this is the APR that applied to the loan throughout 
lender Ms ownership of it. Prestige has confirmed that it was informed that the annual 
interest rate being charged on the loan when it took it over was 16.63% and it continued to 
apply that until it reviewed the account in 2021.
Mr and Mrs A raised the concerns set out above in 2021. The final response of 4 November 
2021 from Prestige it set out the details of the policy. It confirmed that the loan had been 
sold by an independent broker, so they should refer any concerns they had about the service 
they had been provided with by that business directly to it. Prestige went on to say that 
arrears had started on the loan in January 2011, and it had been in arrears for long periods 
ever since. As such, additional interest had been charged and charges had been incurred for 
additional work Prestige had to do in managing the account. Prestige was satisfied that the 
charges that had been applied to the loan, the arrears figures and amounts outstanding were 
correct and as a result of missed payments. It was highlighted that the balance was higher 
than would have been expected when the loan was taken out, because Mr and Mrs A hadnt 
made the payments required under the contract.
In relation to the request for a payment deferral in 2020, Prestige acknowledged this had 
been requested but not actioned. It confirmed that the payment deferral should have been 
put in place. It said it could do so at that time, but it would make little difference to the 
account status, other than the arrears would be recorded as 40.85 months, rather than the 
then current 43.85 months. However, Prestige paid Mr and Mrs A £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused them.
Prestige then went on to confirm that a review of Mr and Mrs As account had been 
undertaken in June 2021 and it had recredited the account with £385 of arrears charges that 
had been charged between September 2019 and November 2020. It was also confirmed that 
it had refunded £526.16 of arrears letter charges. In addition, it had reduced the interest rate 
to 5.23% as of November 2020, which meant a further reduction in the balance of over 
£2,000.  
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with Prestiges response and asked us to consider the 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint and concluded that we 
couldnt consider it all. Initially, he pointed out that some of their complaint points had 
recently been considered by this service under a different complaint reference, so we 
wouldnt be doing so again. 
As for the complaint about the interest rate applied to the loan, the investigator concluded 
that we could only consider this part of the complaint about the interest rates applied to the 
account over the six years before the complaint was raised in 2021  so from 2016. He then 
went on to consider the merits of the parts of the complaint we could consider, but he didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the investigators conclusions and reiterated their points about 
the loan having been mis-sold and the documentation provided. They also said that they had 
sought legal advice and had been told that the loan agreement was invalid, and they didnt 
need to make any further payments to it. They asked that the complaint be escalated.
Our investigator referred the complaint for review by an ombudsman, but also confirmed 
again that we had already investigated their concerns about the mis-selling and provision of 
documentation, and so wouldnt comment again. As for the legal advice Mr and Mrs A had 
reported receiving, he confirmed that we were not able to provide legal advice and so 
couldnt comment, but he didnt have any reason to conclude that the loan agreement wasnt 
valid.
The complaint was referred to me and issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction in relation 
to Mr and Mrs As complaint. I confirmed the only complaint points we could consider were:
They have been charged interest at an annual rate of 16.38%, but the loan agreement 
said interest would be charged at 12.9%. 
The incorrect interest rate being applied and the application of unreasonable fees and 
charges to the loan, means that they have paid too much to the loan and the balance is 
higher than it should be.
Following recent changes in financial regulation the interest rate applied to the loan was 
reduced, but they dont think it was done correctly.
They were not granted a Covid-19 payment deferral in 2020 when they asked for it.In addition, I confirmed that the matters relating to the interest rate applied to the loan and 
the charges applied to the loan would only be considered from October 2015.
Following this Mr and Mrs A were asked to confirm exactly what they meant when 
complaining about recent changes to financial regulation and the interest rate not having 
been applied correctly. Mr and Mrs A were chased for a response to our question several 
times and none was forthcoming. As such, we explained that we wouldnt be able to 
specifically comment on this complaint point. 
Mr and Mrs A then responded, but did not provide an answer to our question. Rather they 
said that we had all the information we needed to look into their complaint and if that was not 
enough we were not doing our job properly. They also expressed their dissatisfaction with 
the restrictions out jurisdiction placed on our consideration of their complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 May 2023 setting out my conclusions about the merits 
of the parts of this complaint that fell within our jurisdiction. Below is an excerpt:
While not part of this complaint, I will comment on a recent concern Mr and Mrs A have 
raised about the loan not being recorded on their credit file with credit reference agencies. I 
havent looked into this matter, but I think it would be helpful for Mr and Mrs A to know that 
not all lenders report to credit reference agencies and there is no requirement for them to do 
so. So if the loan isnt included in their credit reports, that doesnt mean that Prestige has 
done anything wrong or indicate anything in relation to the validity of the loan.
As I have detailed above, the loan agreement said that lender M would charge interest at 
20.3% APR and 12.9% annual flat rate. It also confirmed that the interest rate was variable 
as set out in the terms and conditions. 
There are different ways to express the interest that is charged on a loan. In this case three 
different terms have been used and I believe that is what has raised Mr and Mrs As concern 
that they are being charged more interest than they thought they would be when they took 
the loan. 
Lender M used flat rate and APR. Prestige has used annual interest rate. This has caused 
confusion because while all of the terms refer to the same thing, they are calculated 
differently from each other and are not directly comparable. Indeed, introduction of the 
requirement for APRs to be used was specifically to enable consumers to better compare 
different loans and other financial products. 
The annual interest rate Prestige has detailed on its statements is the term that most lenders 
and consumers use when confirming what interest rate is applied to their loan  that is 
16.63% in this case. The APR is usually slightly higher than the annual interest rate  in this 
case 18% - and a flat rate tends to be in the region of half the APR. I know that 
Mr and Mrs A wont be satisfied with this explanation, but they are comparing different things 
and that is why there looks like there is such a discrepancy between the figures.
Prestige has said that 16.63% is the annual interest rate that lender M had been charging on 
the loan at the time the loan was transferred. That interest rate would seem to correlate with 
the 18% APR lender M detailed on its statements from the outset. So it would appear that 
Mr and Mrs A were paying the same rate of interest on their loan from the time it was 
advanced until the review took place in 2021. I would also point out that this is a lower rate 
than that detailed in the credit agreement. As for the change to the interest rate made in 2021 and backdated to November 2020, I 
would explain that when a borrower is in financial difficulties, we would expect the lender to 
do what it can to support the borrower. Looking at the interest rate being charged would be 
one of the forbearance measures that could be considered. Prestige did this and reduced 
the interest rate considerably in order to assist Mr and Mrs A. I havent seen any evidence 
that this reduction was inappropriate or that it has not been applied correctly.
We dont generally consider it is reasonable for a lender to add charges and fees to a 
mortgage or secured loan just because there are arrears on the account. However, where an 
account is not being maintained and this causes the lender additional cost to administer it, 
we wouldnt consider it unreasonable for charges to be applied.
I have reviewed each of the charges that were applied and for which months. Having done 
so, the majority of the charges were applied when Mr and Mrs A paid either nothing or less 
than they were due to pay, which means I would not ask Prestige to refund those charges. 
However, there are four that I would consider were applied unfairly on this basis. These 
being those charged on 10 January 2020, 13 June 2018, 10 October 2017 and 11 May 2017 
when Mr and Mrs A paid the amount agreed or the CMP. 
In addition, Prestige has acknowledged that it should have given Mr and Mrs A a payment 
deferral when they asked and this would have been in placed from April 2020. As the 
payments during this period would not have been considered late or missed, the arrears 
charges applied in May, June July, August, September and October 2020 should also be 
refunded.
I note that Prestige refunded £385 of charges incurred during the period between 
September 2019 and November 2020. This equates to 11 of the 14 charges applied during 
that period. Prestige has unfortunately been unable to confirm which of those charges it 
refunded, so I cant be certain it included the charge from January 2020, but I think it is likely 
that it did.
Prestige has confirmed that its collections department also refunded £315 of arrears 
management charges in June 2021. It is unsure which charges were refunded or for what 
period; indeed it thinks there is a possibility it was some of the same charges that were 
refunded in the £385 detailed in the final response. In light of this, I cant be certain, or 
conclude that it is likely on balance, that the three charges of 13 June 2018, 
10 October 2017 and 11 May 2017 were included in the refund. As such I consider that 
Prestige should reverse these three charges. 
Prestige has acknowledged that it should have dealt with Mr and Mrs As request for a 
payment deferral in 2020 and that its service fell short in not doing so. When awarding 
redress we aim to place a consumer as close to the position they would have been in, but for 
the mistake of the financial business. 
When a payment deferral is given, the payments that should have been made by the 
accountholder are effectively capitalised to the loan balance, rather than being recorded as 
arrears, as missed payments usually would. The fact it is a payment deferral wouldnt alter 
the amount owed, only how it was recorded and how/whether it was reported on to credit 
reference agencies. The latter is not a consideration in this case, as Mr and Mrs A have 
confirmed the loan doesnt show on their credit reports, so that is not a concern. Prestige 
has confirmed that the payments being recorded missed, rather than as deferred, has meant 
that the arrears balance is higher than it would have been. However, it has also commented 
that those three months makes little difference in practical terms, given the loan was already 
more than 40 months in arrears. I can understand the point that Prestige is making here and I have to agree that there would 
be limited benefit to altering the account balances in the circumstances. However, if 
Mr and Mrs A want the balances to be changed, they should say so in response to this 
provisional decision. In light of the situation, I consider the £50 offered is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Following my provisional decision, Prestige was able to confirm the charges that had been 
refunded as part of the £315 in June 2021. That list of charges included the ones for 
10 October 2017 and 11 May 2017. This was explained to Mr and Mrs A and they were told 
it meant that I would only be requiring Prestige to reverse the charge applied on 13 June 
2018. 
In addition, Prestige confirmed that it had already paid the £50 compensation it had offered. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt respond to my provisional decision, or the further email (including a copy 
of the provisional decision) detailed above. While they have not responded, both the 
provisional decision and follow-up clarification were sent to the email address Mr and Mrs A 
have corresponded with us from, and so I am satisfied they would have received them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I have not changed my conclusions about this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Prestige Finance Limited to 
reverse the arrears charge applied on 13 June 2018.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman