DRN-3008999
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the customer service he received from British Gas Services Limited 
(British Gas) in relation to his HomeCare policy. His annual boiler service was cancelled, and 
he believes his policy was misrepresented.
What happened
Mr T had a HomeCare policy with British Gas, this policy provided cover for repairs  
to his boiler, central heating system and a range of other things. It also included an 
annual boiler service. 
Once in September 2020 and twice in October 2020, British Gas sent Mr T a letter 
explaining his annual boiler service was due and asked him to arrange an 
appointment. This annual boiler service was for policy year 2019/2020.
In November 2020, Mr Ts policy automatically renewed. In mid-December 2020,    
Mr T changed his policy from HomeCare Four to HomeCare Two. This meant his 
policy provided him with less cover, but it still included an annual boiler service. A 
service was also booked for 22 December 2020. 
On the morning of the appointment, British Gas unfortunately cancelled the service. 
Mr T didnt reschedule the service on this date  but he did ask to speak to a 
manager and he also raised a complaint. 
In February 2021, British Gas sent Mr T a final response which apologised for the 
service he received. They also said theyd been unable to contact him to discuss a 
way forward - despite making a few attempts. Mr T also stopped his direct debit this 
month and didnt make his February payment. 
Mr T contacted British Gas again in March and they offered him £105 to resolve the 
complaint. They said £65 was to reflect the missed service and £40 was an offer of 
compensation. They also explained that while Mr Ts policy had already lapsed due 
to the lack of payment - they could reinstate it, but the next available appointment for 
a boiler service wouldnt be until May 2021. They also said this complied with the 
policy terms, as they werent required to provide a service under the new policy year 
straight away.
In response, Mr T said refunding the cost of the service for policy year 2019/2020 
was the very least British Gas could do. He said his policy premiums should be 
refunded from November, as he wouldnt have renewed his policy if he knew he 
wouldnt get a service until May 2021. Hes also said he was promised an expedited 
boiler service, and he highlighted the importance of this during the conversations he 
had with British Gas.
Our investigator then considered the complaint. She concluded that British Gas had 
treated Mr T fairly by offering him the compensation they did, for the missed service 
in policy year 2019/2020. However, she didnt think British Gas should reasonably 
refund Mr T any of his policy premiums. 
As this didnt resolve things for Mr T  Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Its unfortunate the service on 22 December 2020 was cancelled. I appreciate by this 
point - the policy year had already ended. However, the terms and conditions of      
Mr Ts policy explain that appointments cant be guaranteed, and they will sometimes 
need to be cancelled  as emergency repairs need to be prioritised. The terms also 
say the annual service can take place more, or less, than 12 months after your last 
service. So, while I appreciate that finding out the service had been cancelled on    
22 December 2020 wouldve been upsetting  I havent seen anything which 
suggests this appointment was guaranteed.
Mr T has said his health couldve been put at risk because of the delay in carrying out 
the service. However, nothing appears to have gone wrong with his boiler while he 
was waiting for the service, and Im unable to consider hypothetical situations. In 
addition, under the terms of the policy, British Gas would still have attended to any 
necessary repairs with his boiler - despite the service not taking place.
I also acknowledge Mr Ts comments about the difficulties he experienced contacting 
British Gas. Ive no reason to dispute what hes said, and I appreciate this wouldve 
been frustrating. However, due to the Covid pandemic  I also think some reduction 
in service was unfortunately unavoidable. It also appears there were some occasions 
where British Gas struggled to contact Mr T in relation to his complaint. 
British Gas have offered to pay Mr T the cost of his 2019/2020 service. I think this 
was the right thing to do as there is no dispute an annual service was included as 
part of his policy, and this didnt take place. Im also satisfied £40 compensation is a 
reasonable amount to reflect the inconvenience and upset this matter caused Mr T. 
As its clear the last minute cancellation wouldve been upsetting, and it was 
important to Mr T that a service should take place.
I dont think British Gas should have arranged a service in addition to offering the £65 
payment  as this would have meant Mr T wouldve been compensated twice for the 
same issue. As such, Im satisfied British Gas provided Mr T with a fair resolution to 
the concerns hed raised about his 2019/2020 policy. 
Turning to the 2020/2021 policy, I note Mr Ts comments that he wouldnt have 
renewed or downgraded the policy - if he was aware the service in December was 
going to be cancelled. I appreciate his strength of feeling in relation to this, and his 
disappointment that the call recordings arent available. However, I dont think British 
Gas or Mr T could reasonably have predicted the cancellation of his service at this 
time. Im also satisfied British Gas wouldnt have cancelled the appointment if this 
could have been avoided. I also note that the HomeCare Two policy includes an 
annual service. So, I dont think British Gas wouldve reasonably done anything 
wrong - by reassuring Mr T that an annual service would take place under the terms 
of his new policy.Finally - Mr T has said the key reason he wanted a policy was because of the annual 
service, but that doesnt mean he didnt receive any benefit from the payments he 
made towards the 2020/2021 policy. I say this because British Gas would have 
helped in the event his boiler needed repairs. I also havent seen anything which 
suggests, British Gas wouldnt have been able to provide him with a boiler service 
within the 2020/2021 policy year - if he hadnt cancelled his direct debit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. British Gas Services Limited 
should pay Mr T £105  - if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman