DRN-2248021
The complaint
Miss M complains about a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In July 2019, Miss M took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance the 
purchase of a used car. The car was eight years old, had travelled more than 67,500 miles 
and cost £6,295.
She said that a family member looked over the car when she got it home and discovered 
various faults including a broken rear light and a noise from the steering. She said within the 
following 2-3 days she messaged the garage that supplied the car with pictures of the faults. 
She said they told her the manager was in hospital and they would get back to her.
She waited a few weeks and contacted Moneybarn in September 2019. She said they told 
her she was too late to reject the car but she no longer wanted the car because of the 
problems.
Moneybarn said the complaint was first raised with them in September 2019. They said the 
supplying dealer had told them it wasnt aware of the complaint issues. Moneybarn said that 
the dealer told them Miss M had raised an issue about a cracked grill within the first week, 
but it wasnt aware of the other issues.
After theyd received full details of her complaint, including the independent report she 
supplied, Moneybarn told Miss M they werent upholding her complaint. They said the 
windscreen, brake light, and tyres were wear and tear issues, and the crack in the grill, and 
the paintwork and bodywork issues were cosmetic issues. They also said there was no 
evidence shed raised the issues within 30 days so she wasnt able to reject the car.
Our investigator felt that the issues were due to wear and tear, and he thought the car 
would have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M.
Miss M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn supplied Miss M with the car under the conditional sale agreement they had with 
her. Theres a term implied in the agreement that the car would be of satisfactory quality. 
What is satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In this case this would include 
things such as the age and mileage of the car.
Miss Ms car was eight years old and had more than 67,500 miles on the clock when she got 
it. So, a reasonable person might expect to have to repair or replace some parts of the car 
over time.
Miss M wants to reject the car. She says she reported the faults to the dealer who supplied 
the car within 30 days of getting the car. Moneybarn said the dealer was only aware of one 
of the issues  the cracked grill. So theres a dispute about whether or not Miss M reported 
the issues within 30 days.
Before I consider that matter, I have to consider first whether or not Im satisfied the car was 
of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M. As well as the age and mileage of 
the car, I also have to consider whether or not any faults were caused by a defect, rather 
than wear and tear.
Miss M supplied a brief report provided by an independent garage she asked to look at the 
car. The inspection was done at the end of October 2019, three months after Miss M got the 
car. And it doesnt indicate whether or not it believed the issues it highlighted were likely to 
be present at the time the car was supplied to her.
Im not aware of the mileage done in this three month period, but we do know that Miss M 
travelled more than 1,200 miles in the six weeks before she reported the issues to 
Moneybarn.
Ive considered the issues raised in the independent report. The report does no more than 
list a number of issues. It doesnt show how or when these issues arose. So its likely that 
some of these issues may have arisen in the three months since she collected the car. None 
of the faults meant the car was unsafe, and she was always able to drive the car. Its 
reasonable to expect parts of a car of this age to have experienced a fair degree of wear and 
tear.  I consider it was reasonable for Moneybarn to consider all of the issues highlighted, 
including the cracked grill, some cracking of a tyre sidewall, and the windscreen chip, to be 
issues you might expect from a car of this age and mileage.
The report does say there was noise from the steering column when turning, and Miss M 
says this was present when she got the car. But the report says nothing about the cause of 
the noise. Ive considered the mileage done by Miss M before the inspection, and that she 
hasnt reported any issues with the steering. So Im satisfied that its more likely than not the 
noise didnt arise from a fault or present a safety issue.
I dont dispute there were a number of issues with the car supplied to Miss M by Moneybarn, 
even if its not clear to me which ones were present at the time the car was supplied to her. 
Its unfortunate that she didnt inspect the car before driving it away from the garage. She 
told our investigator she went straight to the office, signed the paperwork, picked up the keys 
and drove the car away. Im satisfied that any reasonable dealer would put appropriate 
remedies in place if shed raised these issues at the time. Moneybarn said that the dealer 
was willing to look at the issues, but for a number of reasons, Miss M wasnt able to return to 
the dealer.
So Im satisfied the issues highlighted do not mean the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Im persuaded theyre mostly cosmetic and can be 
reasonably expected with a car of this age and mileage.
 
I know Miss M was frustrated because the supplying dealer didnt respond to her calls. And 
she feels this was deliberate, and meant she lost the right to reject the car. But she would 
only have been able to reject he car if it had not been of satisfactory quality.  And Ive explained above why I think it was reasonable in these circumstances to consider the car 
supplied to Miss M was of a satisfactory quality. So I dont think Moneybarn needs to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman