DRN-3137139
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC didnt do enough to protect him from what he says was an 
investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2018 Mr P invested with a firm Ill refer to 
as F. He believed he was investing in crypto-currency and made a payment to fund his 
investment using his HSBC Visa debit card.
The payment involved was for £10,000 and took place in December 2018. It appeared on his 
statement as going to a different merchant J. Mr P says he later had issues with F and 
concluded they were operating a scam. In January 2020 he contacted HSBC and asked for 
their help to get his money back.
HSBC said they were unable to assist or provide a refund and Mr P complained. He doesnt 
believe HSBC did enough to protect him from the scam. The matter was later referred to our 
service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. As he disagrees, 
Mr P has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prevention
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr P has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether F were operating a scam as Mr P alleges. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time F were 
operating a scam. I say this as at that time they were regulated in a jurisdiction outside the 
UK. The services being offered may have been high risk and I accept Mr Ps testimony that 
its likely there were some questionable sales and marketing techniques. But that doesnt in 
itself mean F were operating a scam.
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that F were operating a 
scam at the time Mr P made his payment. And although banks have obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams, there is no obligation to protect against bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So as I dont think F were operating a scam, there isnt any reason for 
HSBC to have intervened at the time. 
Mr P has mentioned the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting 
Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. Ive considered this but as Ive concluded 
F werent operating a scam, then any obligation for HSBC to intervene isnt triggered. 
Ultimately how Mr P chose to spend the money in his account was his business, and unless 
there is evidence of a fraud, scam or misappropriation of the funds, HSBC arent required to 
interfere in this. 
Recovery
The only potential option for recovery of a debit card payment would have been through the 
chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme operator (in 
this case Visa) whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the 
schemes arbitration decisions or rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer 
(i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. In 
this case the payment Mr P made went to J who appear to be a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. HSBC concluded that it was likely J would evidence theyd provided the service 
requested of them. That is theyd accepted Mr Ps payment and passed it on (in whatever 
format) to F. As such, I dont think that HSBCs decision to not pursue a chargeback was 
unreasonable. Im satisfied that J are a genuine business and a chargeback can only be 
made to the merchant that received the funds, so there wouldnt have been an option to 
attempt a chargeback directly with F. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think HSBC could have done more to prevent the 
loss that Mr P has suffered. Im of course sorry to hear he has lost this money, but as I dont 
think HSBC are responsible for this, Im not going to require them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 Richard Annandale
Ombudsman