DRN-1699811
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs T arranged a mortgage with YBS in 1998. At the same time a PPI policy was set 
up that protected their monthly repayments if either of them couldnt work because of 
disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt find that the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they were led to believe they had to take out the PPI if they wanted the 
mortgage. And I accept that, many years later, this might be how they remember the sale. 
But theres a difference between YBS encouraging them to take out PPI and putting them 
under pressure to do so.
I havent seen enough evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ts recollections. Understandably 
after all this time, YBS hasnt been able to provide everything from the sale, such as a PPI 
application form. But the available paperwork, for example the mortgage application form 
Mr and Mrs T signed, suggests the PPI was presented as optional insurance. And theres 
nothing to otherwise suggest that they were told taking PPI would improve their chances of 
getting the mortgage.
Having carefully considered this point, there isnt enough for me to conclude its more likely 
than not YBS gave Mr and Mrs T the impression they had to have the PPI.
If YBS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T it would have had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, they were eligible for the cover and werent significantly affected by any 
of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover.  
Mr and Mrs T say they were entitled to generous employer benefits if they couldnt work and 
had access to other means which meant they didnt need PPI. But the PPI paid out for up to 
12 months per unemployment claim and for up to 24 months per disability claim. So, the benefits were considerable. Given the PPI protected long-term and significant borrowing 
secured on their home, I think theyd have valued the extra protection it provided. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think its likely they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have provided useful cover for them if 
something went wrong and at an affordable price. So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs T have lost out because of how 
YBS sold them the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman