DRN-3673382
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Tavistock Partnership Limited (TPL) advised him to invest his 
pensions in unsuitable, high risk investments which subsequently lost value.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs M approached a representative of TPL for advice about their respective 
pensions. Although Mr and Mrs M held separate pensions, the advice was given to them 
together, considering their overall financial position.
In the fact-find TPL noted Mr M had a group personal pension (GPP) which was split into 
two parts and had an overall value of around £139,000 at the time. Mrs M had a personal 
pension (PP), also split into two parts, with a total value of around £196,400 at the time. 
TPL noted Mr and Mrs M were 46 and 53 years old respectively and intended to retire at 
age 65. It recorded that their overall objective was to ensure their pensions continued to 
grow, giving them a secure retirement. TPL also noted that Mr and Mrs M were keen to 
move away from their current pension provider (L) because they didnt like the service it 
provided and found their online facility to be lacking.
TPL carried out an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk (ATR). While it noted 
neither of them had much investment experience, Mr Ms ATR was recorded as 5 out of 7 
and Mrs Ms ATR was recorded as 4 out of 7.
In January 2017 TPL recommended that Mr M transfer his GPP to a Novia self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). It advised him to use the services of a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM) called Organic, and invest his funds in its Progressive portfolio. It also recommended 
that Mrs M transfer her PP to a Novia SIPP. She was also advised to use Organic and invest 
her funds in its Defensive portfolio. TPL also recommended that Mr and Mrs M use their 
ongoing advice service.
Mr and Mrs M accepted the advice, paying a 2% initial advice fee and agreeing to pay 0.65% 
per year for the ongoing advice. 
On 16 February 2017 Novia confirmed that the transfers had completed with £146,674.39 
transferred to Mr Ms SIPP and £203,557.45 transferred to Mrs Ms SIPP. TPL said it 
received notification from Novia in May 2017 that Mr and Mrs M had stopped the ongoing 
advice fees.
In November 2018 the funds managed by Organic were suspended and because the
model portfolios invested in these funds, this had an impact on Mr and Mrs Ms pensions. In 
December 2018 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published its Supervisory Notice 
regarding Organic requiring it to cease regulated activities.
Mr and Mrs M  complained to TPL in December 2020. They were unhappy that TPL had 
recommended they invest through Organic. Mr M said they had been advised to invest 
thousands in Organic bonds which were suspended in November 2018 and had lost value. 
Mr and Mrs M questioned why TPL hadnt told them about this at the time.
TPL didnt uphold neither Mr M nor Mrs Ms complaint. It said the recommendations were 
suitable as they met with Mr and Mrs Ms ATR and objectives. TPL added that by the time 
the bonds had been suspended the representative Mr and Mrs M had dealt with was a 
representative of another regulated business. And so TPL was not responsible for any of 
their losses.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy so they each referred a complaint to our Service.
Mr M clarified that he was not unhappy with the transfer of his pension to the Novia SIPP. 
However, he did not think that certain assets which formed part of Organics Progressive 
portfolio were suitable for his ATR. So, he didnt think the recommendation to invest in this 
portfolio was suitable for him.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think the recommendation that Mr M invest 
through Organic was suitable as it was a new DFM which had only been authorised for 
around a year, so there was very little track record. He also didnt think a DFM was suitable 
for someone of Mr Ms experience. And overall, he didnt think the recommended portfolio 
was suitable for Mr Ms medium ATR as it contained a high proportion of junk and unrated 
bonds, which carried a high risk. He also thought the recommended arrangement was 
expensive and TPL didnt adequately highlight the costs associated with Organic to Mr M.
The Investigator recommended Mr M should be compensated by comparing the value of his 
pension up to 10 December 2020 (when he engaged a new financial adviser to rebalance it) 
with a benchmark in line with his medium ATR. He also recommended TPL should pay Mr M 
£300 for the distress caused by the unsuitable advice.
Mr M accepted this. TPL didnt provide any comments in response to the Investigators view 
but it ultimately made an offer to settle Mr Ms complaint. However, this differed from the 
method of compensation recommended by the Investigator. TPL said its method of 
compensation was more realistic as it used the LF Mixed Investment 40-85% unit prices to 
determine the hypothetical investment value.
Mr M didnt accept this and asked for a final decision on the matter. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TPL's actions here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority, the predecessor of the FCA, published a checklist 
for pension switching that I think is still of relevance today. It highlighted four key issues it 
thought should be focussed on:
Charges: has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
Existing benefits: has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
Risk: has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
ATR and personal circumstances?
Ongoing fund management: has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place?
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
In addition, when considering the use of a DFM, the regulator has made clear that amongst 
other matters, firms need to take into account issues such as:
Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
Investors knowledge and experience: the FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks 
associated with any underlying investment decisions the DFM might make.
Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement were actually 
explained to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
Its also relevant to consider whether a particular DFM was appropriate. The approach each 
firm takes to managing funds and interacting with the adviser and investor is different. So different DFMs might be suitable for clients in different situations. Two factors are particularly 
relevant in this case.
Firstly, the conduct of proper due diligence. If an adviser relied only on prepared literature,
weaknesses in the DFMs operations may have been overlooked. Features that an adviser
should consider in their due diligence include:
Variation in cost structures between DFMs - some charge per transaction they make, 
in addition to an annual charge.
What was the DFMs typical investment philosophy (in terms of assets they 
preferred), whether this was a model portfolio or not? Would those assets be 
appropriate?
Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the 
degree of success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this 
would reasonably have increased the enquiries the adviser should have made.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the 
end. They were recommending the DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that meant 
looking under the bonnet.
Was the advice TPL provided suitable?
I should first say that Mr M has not complained about the switch of his GPP with L to the 
Novia SIPP  he maintains he is happy with this aspect of the advice as he specifically 
wanted to move away from L and have the flexibility a SIPP provided him with. Instead, it is 
the investment recommendations TPL made which Mr M does not think were suitable for 
him. He questions whether the use of a DFM and the investments in Organic bonds were 
right for him.
Based on the information gathered by TPL, it appears that Mr Ms main motivation for 
seeking the advice was to move away from L and to ensure his pension continued to grow. 
However, it seems that Mr Ms pension was already performing well  he was invested 
entirely in the UK Index fund, which had achieved returns of 68.8% over the last five years. 
Nevertheless, I accept that Mr M is happy that his pension was moved away from L. And 
I also note that being invested wholly in the UK Index fund probably exposed Mr M to a 
higher level of risk than was suitable for him. So, despite the high performance, on balance, 
I think it was reasonable for TPL to recommend Mr M move his pension funds away from L.
COBS 9.2 required TPL to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was  
suitable for Mr M. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said TPL had to obtain enough information 
from Mr M to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related 
investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary experience 
and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. So, in my view, a key part 
of making a suitable recommendation is the ATR assessment.
Ive considered the assessment TPL undertook to determine Mr Ms ATR. It appears the 
primary tool used to determine Mr Ms ATR was a risk tolerance profile questionnaire. Mr M 
was recorded as having a score of 58 out of 100, which placed him in risk group 5 out of 7. 
In my view this would equal a high-medium or moderately aggressive ATR. But I dont think 
that is a fair representation of Mr Ms ATR, particularly when taking into account his 
investment experience and capacity for loss.
Despite what ATR assessment the tool arrived at for Mr M, TPL had a duty to investigate 
any inconsistencies with the risk profile chosen through the fact-finding process. To my mind, an investor with a genuine medium-high ATR would be an experienced investor with a 
moderate capacity for loss. But according to the fact-find completed by TPL this was Mr Ms 
only pension. And he had not invested money either through his bank or financial adviser 
before. While I note Mr M had an investment property, it doesnt appear he had any other 
savings or investments. And between Mr and Mrs M, they had considerable liabilities, 
including mortgages of around £280,000 and credit card debt of £14,000. So, although Mr M 
was still working and building up pension funds with his employer, I consider his capacity for 
loss overall was fairly low.
With this in mind, I think a reasonable assessment of Mr Ms ATR, taking account of his 
individual circumstances and experience, was probably medium, or 4 out of 7 on TPLs 
scale.
TPL recommended that Mr M use a DFM to manage his funds and it chose Organic to do so. 
It also recommended that Mr M should invest in Organics Progressive portfolio. TPLs fact-
find notes the following discussion in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms preference in using a DFM:
We discussed bespoke versus model portfolios they liked the idea of being able to have a 
more personalised service, active management, managers working closer to the market. 
They understand that bespoke portfolios would be more costly and would prefer to look at an 
actively managed model portfolio they would prefer a smaller firm looking after their money 
as opposed to being a fish in a giant pond. They would prefer a human looking after the 
money not an algorithm based management. We discussed the fact that my 
recommendation may be more expensive than their current holdings and they had no 
problem with this because they appreciate that active management would come at a cost. 
They also understand people have to get paid for the work they do, nobody does anything 
for nothing.
While I appreciate the notes TPL made here, it seems unlikely to me that using a DFM was 
something Mr M had in mind when he approached TPL. He was an inexperienced investor 
and so its unlikely he had a good understanding of the role a DFM played compared with 
investing in regular managed funds through an adviser. The notes reference the increased 
costs such an arrangement would entail, compared with Mr Ms GPP. But I dont think that 
necessarily means Mr M understood how much more the arrangement recommended by 
TPL would cost him overall. Mr Ms GPP was very low cost, and by taking TPLs advice he 
was essentially going to be paying for two firms expertise to manage his pension, at a 
significantly increased cost. And I dont think that was clearly explained in TPLs 
recommendation letter.
Its evident that following TPLs recommendation would mean Mr M would be paying more 
for his pension. Mr M had previously been paying a 0.5% annual management charge and 
an annual fee of £18. But in addition to the initial advice fee of 2% and ongoing advice fee of 
0.65%, Novia would charge a 0.29% wrapper fee and Organic would apply an investment 
charge of 0.375%. This was what was disclosed to Mr M in the recommendation letter and 
these charges alone meant Mr M would be paying more for his new arrangement.
However, while I think Mr M likely understood he would be paying more overall, there were 
extra charges that applied which were not disclosed to Mr M. The SIPP application shows 
that as a result of investing in Organics Progressive portfolio, 40% of his funds were placed 
in the Organic Bond Fund, which had ongoing charges of 2.67%. A further 13% of his funds 
would be invested in the Organic Long/Short Alpha Fund, which had ongoing charges of 
3.86%. So, over half of his funds were to be invested in funds with significant costs that were 
hidden from Mr M. And this would mean that Mr Ms pension would have to achieve 
significant growth above the charges applied to provide him with a reasonable return. 
Indeed, the pension switching report projected that Mr Ms pension would be worth less overall under the new scheme compared with his GPP based on the regulators assumed 
projected returns.
So, from a costs perspective alone, I dont think the DFM was a suitable arrangement for 
Mr M. But in addition to this I also dont think he had the investment experience or 
knowledge to be able to understand the investment decisions that would be made on his 
behalf. So overall, I dont think using a DFM was a suitable recommendation for Mr M. And 
I think he couldve achieved his objective of ensuring his pension continued to grow by 
investing in a regular managed fund, which would cost significantly less overall. I dont think 
he had any need for the extra expertise a DFM would provide, particularly in view of the 
extra cost he would incur to achieve this.
While I think the costs of the DFM arrangement were prohibitively high, for completeness, 
I also think the choice of Organic as the DFM was unsuitable.
In the recommendation letter, TPL said it had chosen Organic because it was, a small 
boutique investment house who are not restricted in the same ways that larger investment 
houses are, in that the investment manager is not limited to a number of approved 
funds/investments to include in their portfolios. Due to the fact they are a boutique firm they 
are not constrained in their investment selection, they aim to provide appropriate asset 
allocation that fits with the market dynamic at any given time.
TPL also said:
At a time when many managers are increasingly using standardised solutions to meet 
clients needs, [Organic] construct portfolios which include alternative asset classes which 
pass rigorous due diligence assessment offering. [Organic] are a new and exciting 
investment house and as such we have carried out full, extensive due diligence on them that 
they have passed and exceeded expectations. The investment managers have many years 
of successful experience within the investment management industry. We speak with the 
business owner frequently and as such, this gives you the client, a level of personal service 
that is not normally available on model portfolios such as the one recommended to you.
Its difficult to understand how TPL could recommend Organic based on its use of 
investments not correlated to the market, which were said to be less volatile than equities 
and providing a stable return. I say this because not only was Organic only registered with 
the FCA in July 2015, as it acknowledged, the portfolio recommended was only a year old at 
the time. A key element of TPLs recommendation for Mr M to switch his GPP into the SIPP 
appears to have been the expectation the DFM investment portfolio would perform in line 
with the IA Mixed Investment 40-85% benchmark, despite a lower exposure to equities. But 
its unclear what that expectation couldve been based on beyond the performance over the 
last year. While I accept past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication 
of the degree of success the DFM might have in future through an established track record. 
In the absence of this, I think advising Mr M to invest his entire pension through a new, 
untested DFM wasnt suitable for him.
Im also mindful that within the Progressive portfolio, 23% of the assets had a credit rating of 
BBB, which is the lowest rating for investment grade bonds. A further 15% of the assets 
were junk bonds and around 34% of the assets in the portfolio were unrated. This meant 
that almost half of Mr Ms pension funds would be invested in unrated or junk bonds  and 
I think a customer would need to have a high-risk tolerance to consider investing in such 
assets. As I think Mr M had a medium ATR and a low capacity for loss, I dont think the 
recommendation to invest in Organics Progressive portfolio was suitable for him.In summary, I dont think TPLs investment recommendation was suitable for Mr M. While 
Mr M may have quite understandably wanted to maximise the returns on his pension funds, 
I dont think that placing him into a higher charging arrangement was a suitable 
recommendation. Given that Mr M was a medium-risk, inexperienced investor, he would be 
unlikely to need the more expensive active management associated with a DFM. In my view, 
keeping costs to a minimum would have been the suitable course of action here. Overall, 
I think Mr M shouldve been advised to invest in regular investment funds in line with his 
medium ATR.
If Mr M had been advised to invest his pension funds in this way, Im satisfied he wouldve 
accepted the recommendation. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr M wouldve 
insisted on using a DFM, and Im mindful that since changing advisers in 2020, he has not 
used a DFM arrangement. So, I think Mr M should be compensated for the unsuitable advice 
he received by comparing the value of his SIPP with the fair value of his SIPP had it 
produced a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
Mr M changed his adviser in December 2020, so I think it would be fair to cap the potential 
loss at this date. However, I think any loss should brought up to date in line with the same 
benchmark to the date of my final decision.
The Investigator recommended that Mr M should also receive compensation of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. Overall, I think this amount is 
fair in the circumstances. Thats because I think finding out that the DFM in charge of his 
pension had been deauthorised, and the subsequent loss of value to his pension, wouldve 
caused Mr M considerable upset.
Although TPL didnt expressly accept the Investigators view of the complaint, it made an 
offer to Mr M to settle the complaint. TPLs offer was broadly in line with the Investigators 
recommendation. However, it said it had used a more realistic benchmark  the LF Mixed 
Investment 40-85%  as it didnt consider the benchmark the Investigator recommended to 
represent a real fund. This resulted in an offer of £10,156.68 after the notional tax deduction. 
Mr M rejected this offer.
Ive considered whether this is a fair benchmark to use to compensate Mr M for his loss. But 
overall, Im satisfied that the benchmark recommended by the Investigator is fair in the 
circumstances. Thats because it doesnt seek to identify exactly how Mr M wouldve 
invested but for the unsuitable advice, which can be influenced by the benefit of hindsight. 
Instead, it represents the returns a medium-risk investor could expect to achieve by using 
benchmark which is diverse, transparent, industry used and adjusted quarterly. While this 
may result in a lower amount than the sum offered by TPL to settle the matter, ultimately 
I think it represents fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must TPL do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, TPL must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. The compensation should be brought up to date in line with the 
benchmark shown below until the date of my final decision.
TPL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
TPL should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If TPL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £300 for the distress caused by the unsuitable investment advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TPL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. TPL should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investment10 December 
20208% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving Mr Ms  
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if TPL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that The Tavistock Partnership Limited should pay 
Mr M the amount calculated as set out above.
The Tavistock Partnership Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman