DRN-4191914
The complaint
Mr K complains that employees of Bank of Scotland PLC trading as Halifax were rude and 
disrespectful about him in a telephone call whilst he was waiting on hold.
What happened
On 16 February 2023, Mr K called Halifax regarding a transfer of funds that he wanted to 
make, which had been blocked. The adviser told him that he would need to call into a branch 
in order to complete the transaction. He was not satisfied with this and asked to speak to a 
manager.
When he made a subject access request to Halifax and received a recording of the 
telephone call he was upset to hear that, whilst he was on hold, the adviser was 
disrespectful about him in a call to her manager and they both laughed and joked about him.
Halifax upheld his complaint and said that the language that was used was inappropriate. 
The Complaint Manager said he was disappointed that the level of service fell short of its 
normal standards. He had taken steps to ensure that feedback was provided to the 
colleagues involved, and he arranged to pay £100 into Mr K's account.
Mr K referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He felt that the 
compensation paid was not sufficient given the nature of what happened and the stress he 
was caused. He also required the employees concerned to be disciplined.
Our Investigator explained that we do not punish businesses, nor can we direct Halifax to 
discipline its employees. She said she thought Halifax had acted fairly here by apologising, 
confirming it had provided feedback to the staff in question, and with the payment of £100.
Mr K did not agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. The matter 
has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the phone call in question. Halifax was right to uphold Mr Ks complaint as, 
when he was on hold, the adviser and her manager were disrespectful about Mr K and 
laughed and joked about him. I don't need to go into the details of what was said as all 
parties are fully aware of them.
I should emphasise that I'm considering in this decision Mr Ks complaints about the phone 
call, and not any other complaints that he may have raised with Halifax. I think, for the stress 
caused for having to listen to that phone call, that £100 is appropriate compensation and is 
in line with awards we've made in other cases.
As our Investigator has explained, it is not our role to punish businesses, rather it is to 
investigate complaints and try to resolve them informally between the parties. I've noted that 
Halifax, as well as paying compensation, apologised and confirmed it had provided feedback 
to the employees concerned. I can't interfere in its internal disciplinary processes since its a 
matter for Halifax as to how it handles its staff members.
So overall I think that Halifax dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly and reasonably and has 
provided appropriate compensation.
My final decision
As I think that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has dealt with this matter 
appropriately, I wont require it to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman