DRN-1345798
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened 
This complaint is about six loans Lending Stream provided to Mr B between January 2018 
and October 2018. 
Mr B took out loans that were due to be paid by way of either 24 weekly or 6 monthly 
instalments. They have now all been repaid. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
Loan 
Date taken 
Date repaid 
Instalments* 
AmountHighest 
monthly* 
repayment
1 01/01/2018 24/01/2018 24 - weekly £300.00 £122.16
2 11/03/2018 20/03/2018 6 - monthly £200.00 £84.80
3 04/04/2018 12/04/2018 24 - weekly £100.00 £46.32
4 14/04/2018 09/05/2018 24 - weekly £300.00 £115.44
5 25/05/2018 03/07/2018 24 - weekly £200.00 £80.80
6 05/10/2018 17/10/2018 24 - weekly £300.00 £121.20
* this figure shows what Mr B wouldve been paying over the month 
Mr B said that he got into a cycle of constant payday loans and this significantly affected his 
finances and mental health.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. She thought that Lending Stream hadnt acted 
unfairly when it provided loans 1  4, but that Lending Stream shouldnt have lent 
loans 5 and 6 to Mr B. She set out what she thought Lending Stream should do to put things 
right for Mr B. 
Lending Stream responded to say that after considering our adjudicators view, it was willing 
to settle the complaint in the way that our adjudicator recommended.Mr B disagreed with our adjudicator about loans 1 - 4. He felt that it wasnt sufficient just to 
uphold his complaint about loans 5 and 6. Mr B mainly said that he didnt feel that Lending 
Stream did reasonable and proportionate checks  and hes referred to a case mentioned on 
our website where he feels a fairer outcome was reached in similar circumstances to his 
own. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think she had enough information to be able to say that loans 1 
through to 4 shouldnt have been provided. I have looked through all the available 
information  including the bank statements Mr B has sent - and I agree with our adjudicator.
I think the amounts that Mr B needed to repay wouldve seemed relatively affordable 
compared with the take home pay hed declared and what he told Lending Stream about his 
finances  even after Lending Stream increased the amount it thought Mr B was likely to 
spend over the month 
Given the loan repayment amounts, what Lending Stream had recorded about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history at that stage with Lending Stream, 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr B for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first four loans. In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lending Stream to have 
asked to see the bank statements that Mr B has sent me. So if that wasnt information that 
Mr B told Lending Stream about, then Lending Stream wouldnt have known about it - and 
I cant fairly say that Lending Stream shouldve known about it.
So Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 1 - 4.
But I think that by loan 5, Lending Stream should have realised that Mr B wasnt managing to 
repay his borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Lending Stream could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr B had struggled 
to repay some previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 just 6 weeks or so after he 
repaid loan 1, and loans 2, 3 and 4 within a short space of time after repaying each 
previous loan
he took out loan 5 around 2 weeks after he paid loan 4  and although the loan 
amounts varied, this record of borrowing doesnt suggest that he was asking to 
borrow because of a new need for a short term loan. Rather, I think this indicated that 
overall Mr B had ongoing money problems. 
 
In these circumstances, I think there was a significant risk that Mr B wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments for loan 5  and any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr B, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. Here are my reasons for saying this:
Mr Bs first Lending Stream loan had been taken out around 10 months earlier  and 
by loan 6 he was asking to borrow the same amount as hed taken out on loan 1. 
this suggests to me that Mr B wasnt using these loans to provide a short term fix or 
to cover a one off emergency or a temporary cash flow problemLending Stream shouldve realised that Mr B likely had to borrow again each time 
because he was facing money problems after repaying each previous loan, and that 
this pattern of lending showed that Mr Bs borrowing was unsustainable and hed 
become dependent on this sort of expensive credit.
 
I think that Mr B lost out when Lending Stream provided loan 6 because this loan had the 
effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit 
over an extended period of time. As Lending Stream has accepted what our adjudicator said 
about these loans, I dont think I need say anything further. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 and 6.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account what Mr B said about the way another 
complaint mentioned on our website was dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its 
own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what 
happened on the other case doesnt change my conclusion here. 
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 and 6
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan 5 from Mr Bs credit file
 
remove all information about loan 6 from Mr Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 5 and 6. 
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream should take the steps set out above to put things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman