DRN-2370264
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused to allow him to withdraw 
money from his account and complains about how it dealt with him following that request.
What happened
Mr H says he went to an RBS branch to withdraw £7,800 in November 2019 but was asked 
to explain what the money was for. He says he explained that but said he shouldnt need to. 
Mr H says matters escalated and he was unable to withdraw his money and still hasnt been 
able to. He also says that it was suggested RBS would allow him to withdraw a smaller 
amount and it didnt reply to his second complaint letter that was sent by recorded delivery. 
Mr H says he would like an apology and compensation and says RBSs actions are illegal 
and discriminatory.
RBS says it was concerned about fraud and the security of Mr Hs money. It doesnt accept 
dealing inappropriately with him when he attended its branch and says it didnt receive the 
second letter. RBS says it has explained what Mr H needs to do in order to withdraw his 
money.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought RBS had a duty to protect Mr Hs money and that it was difficult to be sure what took 
place in the branch. The investigator didnt think it our role to look into complaint handling or 
comment on why the second letter Mr H sent wasnt responded to.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says RBS has lied about not receiving the second letter 
and says its actions are inconsistent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require RBS to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I accept this is Mr Hs money and he is free to do what he likes with it. So, I appreciate his 
concern and frustration in not being able to withdraw his money when he attended an RBS 
branch in November 2019. But I also accept that banks and building societies have a duty to 
protect customers from scams and fraud and that sometimes means that legitimate 
transactions are prevented. I think it more likely than not that is what took place here when 
Mr H tried to withdraw his money, and that RBS held legitimate and reasonable concerns. 
So, it follows I dont think RBS made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing Mr Hs 
withdrawal request.
It is difficult to be sure what took place after that refusal as both sides give different versions 
of events. So, I cant fairly conclude one side is correct about what took place.
Im satisfied that RBS has fairly explained what Mr H needs to do in order to make the cash 
withdrawal, but I also appreciate Mr Hs concern about doing so. It is of course open to him 
to transfer money to one of his other accounts and withdraw the money that way if possible. 
But its not our role to tell RBS what its policy should be on customers withdrawing relatively 
large amounts of cash as we are not its regulator and I dont think it matters that Mr H has 
been able to withdraw similar amounts in the past.
The investigator has explained that we cant consider complaints about complaint handling, 
but I appreciate Mr Hs frustration about the second letter and that it appears to have been 
sent by recorded or registered delivery. I also appreciate Mr H says RBSs actions are 
discriminatory and fraudulent. I make clear to Mr H that it would be for a court to make such 
conclusions and not us.
Overall, I cant fairly order RBS to pay Mr H compensation and I think this brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to assist Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman