DRN-1339280
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) havent told her about blocked 
transfers in a timely way and shes been unable to use her PIN in branch.
What happened
Mrs B brought her concerns to us as she was unhappy with the response from NatWest 
when she complained. Mrs B was concerned about NatWests failure to tell her two 
transactions were blocked. She was also unhappy about problems she had trying to use her 
PIN in branch.
In respect of the blocked transactions NatWest took a different stance on each. They 
accepted for the first one on 2 May 2019 they hadnt contacted Mrs B soon enough and 
couldve handled the matter better. For this they paid £40 compensation into Mrs Bs 
account. But in respect of the second on 13 June 2019 they thought theyd taken the correct 
action in a timely manner. But, for the service difficulties Mrs B encountered when reporting 
the June payment, Nat West said, giving Mrs B the benefit of the doubt, they would uphold 
this aspect and paid her £75 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. They 
also offered Mrs B £30 in vouchers to pass the intended recipient of her payment to help her 
restore her relationship with them. In respect of the PIN the bank didnt think there had been 
any error on their part.
In both his views our investigator thought he couldnt say for sure why there had been issues 
with Mrs Bs PIN when shed tried to use it in branch on 31 March 2019, but he thought 
NatWests actions in ordering a replacement PIN were reasonable. In respect of the blocked 
payments on 2 May and 13 June 2019 he thought the delay in releasing these and the 
bank's failure to contact Mrs B about the deal was unreasonable. But overall he thought the 
compensation NatWest had offered in May and June 2019 - of £115 credit along with a gift 
valued at £30  was a reasonable response, so he didnt ask them to do anything further.
Mrs B told us she wasnt happy with the view due to the discrepancies in it, she said a 
number of details were incorrect. Mrs B thought NatWest had broken rules by not contacting 
her on either of the occasions when theyd blocked the payments. She told us if she had 
been contacted shed have known where the money was on both occasions and wouldnt 
have upset herself to the point of being unwell for a number of weeks after. Mrs B said shed 
wasted many hours sorting out the problem that NatWest should both have made her aware 
of and have sorted out.
Our investigator told Mrs B NatWest had confirmed the date hed used in his view - 20 June 
2019  on which both the March and June payments were released. But he also invited her 
to let him know if this time frame was incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs B is unhappy about factual discrepancies in the investigators view. Its 
unfortunate these have occurred but, like the investigator I dont think they detract from the 
main issues in this case and his findings. Theres some disagreement over when NatWest 
released the payments out of Mrs Bs account. Shed told us the date from NatWest, of 20 
June 2019, was totally incorrect and worrying. I havent seen statements of her accounts so I 
cant see when the payments were debited from her account and affected her available 
balance. Nor has Mrs B sent us details of what she believes to be the correct date of the 
payment being released. But for the outcome of this complaint I dont think it matters. As 
even of the payments werent released until 20 June 2019 I think NatWest have already 
responded reasonably to this complaint, overall. Ill explain why I think that.
the incorrect PIN
I cant know exactly what happened on 31 March 2019 when Mrs B attempted to pay in a 
cheque and her PIN didnt work. And why, when she returned home and used it online in a 
card reader it did work. There are a number of possible explanations. The bank has 
suggested it may be due to human error or the keys on the terminal not being pressed hard 
enough. And Mrs B told us she used more than one variant of the PIN in the branch on the 
day by reversing the digits she entered on her second attempt. I appreciate it was an 
embarrassing incident, but as I cant know what exactly what happened I cant say NatWest 
were at fault. I cant see that Mrs Bs suffered any loss here and I think the bank acted 
reasonably on the day by ordering a PIN reminder for Mrs B. 
the blocked transfers
Mrs B told us that on two occasions NatWest held her money for periods of 26 and 20 hours 
without contacting her and that in both cases shed had to contact them as she was so 
worried. Whilst I have sympathy for her situation, NatWests internal fraud prevention 
policies are a commercial decision and are, generally, not something we can comment on. 
But I do agree with our investigator that their failure to contact Mrs B promptly to inform her 
of the situation was unacceptable.
Im sorry to hear Mrs Bs health suffered. I can understand her frustrations on a number of 
levels. On both occasions shed transferred a significant amount of money. And theres 
nothing before me to suggest that Nat West contacted her in a timely way about either of the 
transactions. Both times it seems to me Mrs B contacted the bank to raise concerns. But like 
the investigator I think the overall action taken by NatWest in dealing with this matter had 
been reasonable. The payments they've made to Mrs B are the sort of award Id have made, 
had it not been offered. So Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman