DRN-4223576
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund transactions she made as a result 
of a scam.
What happened
Miss M explained that she fell for a scam through a popular social media platform. Shes 
said one of her friends accounts was hacked and then used to convince her and other 
friends to invest in crypto currency.
Miss M said the scammer told her shed make around £10,000 for a small £200 initial 
investment. Miss M was asked to set up an account with a crypto provider Ill refer to as J.
Once the account was set up, all the following payments were made to J and then sent 
onwards to another crypto account (that was controlled by the scammers).
In total, Miss M made six payments using her debit card totalling over £6,000 in less than 24 
hours.
Miss M described how the scammers manipulated her and harassed her into making 
additional payments in order to recover her original £200 investment. Various excuses were 
given to her for more payments to be made including a payment for tax and commission on 
her investment. 
The following is a table of the disputed transactions:
Date / Time Amount Note
20 May 2022 - 08:54 am £200 Paid to J
20 May 2022 - 11:31 am £200 Paid to J
20 May 2022 - 3:54 pm £1,200 Credit paid into a/c
20 May 2022 - 4:01 pm £1,050 Paid to J
20 May 2022 - 5:14 pm £1,586 Credit paid int a/c
20 May 2022 - 5:51 pm £1,586 Paid to J
21 May 2022 - 09:29 am £1,800 Credit aid into a/c
21 May 2022 - 09:31 am £1,250 Paid to J
21 May 2022 - 10:58 am £2,000 Credit paid into a/c
21 May 2022 - 11:02 am £1,950 Paid to J
Total lost to scam £6,236
It wasnt until the final payment that Miss M and her friends realised the investment was a 
scam. Miss M reported the loss to HSBC and had to have several conversations with them 
to put her experience across to them. 
Miss M believes that because several of the payments were pending on her account that 
HSBC could have prevented some of her losses at the time. She believes that HSBCs delay 
in dealing with her issue resulted in unnecessary losses.
HSBC looked into the payments and because Miss M had made them herself using her debit 
card they declined to refund them.
Miss M complained about this and after HSBC again declined to refund the transactions she 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
Miss Ms complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for 
information about the situation. Miss M was able to explain that at the time she was feeling 
vulnerable due to other matters in her life and was taken in by the hack of one of her 
friends social media accounts. 
She said that she never spoke to the scammer and all the contact was through messaging. 
Miss M didnt produce any exchanges with this person but explained how she was 
manipulated and harassed into making more and more payments to them in order to get all 
her money back.
HSBC provided details about the payments and their interaction with Miss M. HSBC 
accepted that theyd not provided the best service when Miss M first called them and 
provided £30 compensation to recognise this. They didnt believe they should make any 
refund due to Miss M making the payments herself.
After considering the evidence it was recommended that HSBC should have identified the 
unusual pattern of payments moving through Miss Ms account and intervened at the fifth 
payment. The investigator explained that up till that point the transactions wouldnt have 
been big enough to expect HSBC to have been alerted to the suspicious nature of them. It 
was also thought that Miss M contributed to her own losses and should bear equal 
responsibility for her losses.
A refund of £1,600 was suggested including adding interest at the rate of the savings 
account the bulk of the funds had come from.
HSBC accepted the recommendations, but Miss M didnt. She believed that:
Because HSBC didnt do anything when the transactions were still in pending, 
the final two payments should be refunded in full. 
Miss M later suggested her full loss should be split evenly with HSBC due to their 
lack of action at the time.
Miss M questioned the interest rate applied to the refund.As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
I was sorry to hear of Miss Ms loss and the impact this scam has had on her. Its apparent 
from listening to her calls to HSBC that she was affected greatly by the loss of her funds at 
the hands of a scammer.
The first matter I need to address is the authorisation of the payments. Its common ground 
that Miss M made the payments from her debit card to the crypto account set up in her name 
before being moved to another wallet. So, even though she didnt intend to pay a
fraudster, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations.
HSBC had an obligation to follow Miss Ms payment instructions, and Miss M is presumed
liable for her loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
HSBC also has to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could involve
fraud or be the result of a scam. Although, there has to be a balance struck between
HSBC identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial
harm and then responding appropriately to those concerns  and ensuring minimal
disruption to legitimate payments.
There is a voluntary code that applies to some scams (The Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  the CRM Code). But the CRM Code doesnt apply 
to payments made by card, which is the payment method used in this case, so I cant apply 
it.
Should HSBC have prevented the payments from being made?
I can only ask HSBC to provide a refund if I consider it has done something wrong and has 
acted unreasonably. Here that revolves around the use of the account and whether there 
were unusual transactions compared to how it was normally used that HSBC should have 
noticed these and intervened.
I agree with the investigators opinion here that the earlier payments wouldnt have come to 
the attention of HSBC as theyre simply not large enough to reasonably expect them to 
assess as suspicious.
But, when looking at the pattern of payments over a period of about a day, the picture 
changes somewhat. In total Miss M moved several thousand from savings into her current 
account and then moved numerous payments on to J. I think by the fifth payment, the 
change in character of how the account was used should have been noticed by HSBC.
I would have expected them to intervene at that point and as the scam experienced by Miss 
M was relatively obvious, I think HSBC would have spotted it and prevented further loss. 
HSBC themselves agreed with this in response to the investigators report.
Should Miss M share some of the loss from the final two payments herself?When deciding what should be refunded by HSBC, I also have to take into account the 
actions of Miss M. Was it reasonable for her to make payment after payment in order to 
retrieve her initial investment of £200 plus whatever she was told she would make as an 
investment?
Contributory negligence can be described as a lack of care on the consumers part that 
goes beyond what we would expect from a reasonable person.
I havent been able to examine the detail of the arrangement between Miss M and her friend 
and have assessed the complaint based on her testimony. It appears that Miss M was 
initially convinced to invest £200 and receive around £10,000 profit over a very short period 
of time. On its own this appears to be a fantastic return for a very small investment. I dont 
think the basic premise of the investment was plausible, nor the various reasons given for 
paying more and more to the scammer in order to receive her initial money back and 
whatever profits she believed she was due.  
There also doesnt appear to have been any agreement or structure to the investment. Miss 
M hasnt said if she carried out any research into the investment and based on her testimony 
that it was a friends account that had been hacked, it seems as though that person had 
become a crypto investment trader. 
Miss M said she was harassed and manipulated into making these payments. I dont doubt 
she was stressed as a result of the scam, but I did find it unusual that she didnt earlier 
question these practices from someone she already knew, it didnt sound like the actions of 
someone she knew.
Id like to make it clear that the scammer was responsible for the fraud against her and the 
loss of her funds. But, I do think the whole premise of the investment was questionable and 
her actions to keep paying funds to the scammer werent based on any plausible basis. 
I understand Miss M believes she was vulnerable at the time of the scam due to other 
factors in her life. Its clear she was stressed as a result of the situation although I dont 
believe that HSBC were aware of any particular vulnerabilities at the time of the scam. I dont 
think they could have put in any other measure to protect Miss M.
So, I do think that Miss M should share in some of the losses from the final two payments 
herself and I think its fair and reasonable for that both parties share the loss equally of the 
final two payments.
I appreciate Miss M thinks all the payments should be considered as unusual, but as Ive 
already pointed out, the earlier payments werent something Id expect HSBC to stop. That 
means I dont consider they should have done anything and as Miss M authorised them 
herself, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further regarding the first four payments.
Miss M has also argued that HSBC could have prevented some of the payments as they 
were still pending when she notified them about the issue. But, once the payments had 
been authorised by Miss M, those funds are no longer available to HSBC. When it says 
pending it means the process to move the funds into the merchants accounts hasnt yet 
been completed and is waiting for the merchant to complete their own processes. 
Unfortunately, HSBC can do little at that point. So, I dont think it would be fair to say that 
HSBC missed an opportunity to stop the payments because theyd already been authorised 
by that point.Miss M experienced poor customer service due to long hold times and having to be passed 
to various personnel at HSBC. They accepted this and paid Miss M £30. I dont intend to 
change that as I think this was a reasonable way to recognise that particular aspect of their 
dealings with Miss M.
Putting things right
HSBC should now pay Miss M £1,600 being 50% of the final two payments. Interest at the 
account rate from where the funds originated should be added from the date of the loss to 
the date of repayment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and  HSBC UK Bank Plc should settle it as 
set out above.
If HSBC considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman