DRN-3641153
The complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan that he says was mis-sold to him by GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money). He also says that GE Money unfairly turned down 
his claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In February 2009, Mr M, alongside his wife, took out a timeshare with a timeshare provider. 
The membership was funded using a loan from GE Money. The timeshare provider was 
named as the intermediary on the loan agreement.1 
In March 2021, Mr M wrote to GE Money about the loan. He said he was aware that there 
was a requirement under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) that loan 
intermediaries were authorised and regulated, but he said that the business (the timeshare 
provider) noted on the loan as the intermediary was not permitted by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to arrange loans.
In July 2021, GE Money responded to Mr M to explain that it was not able to find any 
information about the loan on its systems, so that meant any loan would have closed at least 
six years before the complaint was made as it kept records about loans for six years after 
they closed. GE Money also said that the intermediary named by Mr M held the right Office 
of Fair Trading (OFT) license at the time the loan was arranged, but any claim that could 
be made about that would have been out of the time limits set under the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA) to make a claim.
In December 2021, Mr Ms professional representative (PR) brought a complaint about GE 
Money to our service.2 It said the timeshare provider was not authorised to broker the loan 
and also raised further points about the timeshare, including that it had been misrepresented 
to Mr and Mrs M and that they were pressured into entering the agreement. PR made 
reference to a number of legal provisions that it said entitled Mr and Mrs M to make legal 
claims for compensation.
When the complaint was received by our service, we contacted GE Money to ask for its 
position. It said that, as the December 2021 letter had raised new issues, it needed time to 
consider them. So, in June 2022 it set out its position on the new complaint points. In 
summary, it thought parts of the complaint had been made too late under the rules that 
govern how our service has the power to consider complaints. It thought parts of Mr Ms 
concerns did not fall under the legal provisions that PR said applied to the claims it was 
making, but even if they did apply, any claim had been made too late under the provisions in 
the LA.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and, having done so, did not think GE 
1 Although the timeshare was bought by Mr and Mrs M, as the loan was in Mr Ms name, only he is 
able to bring a complaint to our service. But when the complaint was referred to our service, it was 
done so by both Mr and Mrs M, so I will refer to both of them at times in this decision.
2 The original letter sent in March 2021 was sent by Mr M directly, so I do not know whether PR was 
involved with the complaint at that time.
Money needed to do anything to compensate Mr M. He said that any complaint that Mr M 
could make that GE Money unfairly declined a claim under s.75 CCA did not fall under the 
jurisdiction of our service. He thought that, although a claim made under s.140A CCA fell 
within our jurisdiction, Mr M had made the claim too late under the provisions in the LA. Our 
investigator said that there was not sufficient evidence that Mr M had been lent to 
irresponsibly. Finally, he said that the timeshare provider had the right authority to broker 
loans.
GE Money had nothing to add to our investigators view. However, PR, on Mr Ms behalf, 
disagreed with what had been said and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint 
again.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, I am required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Mr M raised his complaint directly with GE Money in the first instance, questioning whether 
the broker of the loan was authorised. He did not raise any further points. GE Money 
answered those concerns and, after receiving the final response, PR raised further issues 
with our service about the actions of the broker, amongst other things. But as GE Money has 
now considered those wider points, I am able to consider the complaint despite it not being 
made to GE Money before it was referred to our service.
The claims under the CCA
In a separate decision, I have explained why our service is not able to consider Mr Ms 
complaint that his claim under s.75 CCA was turned down unfairly. So in this decision I will 
only consider his complaint about his s.140A CCA claim.
PR says that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship due, amongst other things, to 
the actions of the timeshare provider. The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was 
held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time 
for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. Here the limitation period is six years. That is 
because the claim Mr M wishes to make is for repayment of sums he has paid to the loan, 
which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to which s.9 LA applies.
That meant Mr M would have to bring an action within six years of the end date of the loan. 
Unfortunately, there is no record of exactly when Mr Ms loan closed, so I have to come to a 
finding on when that happened based on the evidence available. 
GE Money has said that there was no record of Mr Ms loan when it searched for it in July 
2021 and that it normally kept records for at least six years after a loan closed. GE Money said this means the loan closed at some stage between it being granted in February 2009 
and July 2015 at the latest. There is no requirement for financial businesses to keep records 
indefinitely, so I think GE Moneys position is plausible. 
In response to what GE Money said, PR argued that there was no evidence that the loan did 
close more than six years before Mr M made a claim under s.140A CCA. However, I do not 
think that is right. GE Money has explained how it keeps records and here I think the 
evidence that it has no record of Mr Ms loan is evidence that the loan must have closed at 
least six years before the search was undertaken. Our investigator explained this to PR and 
invited it to provide evidence from Mr M that the loan was still running within six years of his 
claim. In response, PR provided the loan agreement showing the loan was set with a ten 
year term. But on balance, I dont think that is persuasive evidence that the loan ran to term, 
otherwise I would have expected GE money to have a record of the loan when it searched 
its records in July 2021. And I have not seen any evidence from Mr M of any payment to the 
loan, so I have no reason to doubt that it closed in or before July 2015.
Here, Mr M first made mention of a claim under s.140A CCA in PRs letter to our service 
dated December 2021. But that claim was made more than six years after I find it likely that 
the loan had closed. Given that, I think the claim was made too late under the provisions in 
the LA and GE Money has a defence to such a claim.
PR says that the relevant sections of the LA are not hard and fast rules in so far as from 
when the clock starts ticking in respect of the cause of action accruing. However, I think the 
LA can offer a complete defence to any claim Mr M may have against GE Money and that is 
something that I must take into account. So, the LA does operate as a hard and fast rule if a 
claim is made outside of a limitation period. However, I have considered whether there is a 
reason why the limitation period might be extended.
Mr M says he not aware there was a problem with the timeshare until sometime after it was 
purchased. However a lack of awareness is not something that stops the limitation period 
from running. PR has pointed to s.32 LA, which says that the limitation period can be 
different when facts that are relevant to a claimants cause of action are deliberately 
concealed from them or when the action is based on the fraud of the defendant. However, I 
cannot see that anything about the claim was concealed from Mr M or that his claim under 
s.140A CCA is based on GE Moneys (or its statutory agents) fraud.
Did GE Money properly assess Mr Ms ability to repay the loan?
Mr M says that GE Money was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit 
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. Our investigator said 
that he could not see any evidence that Mr M found the loan unaffordable.
PR says that GE Money had strict obligations under the CONC section of the FCA 
Handbook and failed to undertake those obligations. However, when considering a complaint 
about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether the complainant has actually 
lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if GE Money did not do appropriate 
checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things 
right, I would need to see that Mr M lost out as a result of its failings. Mr M has provided no 
evidence whatsoever that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan, so I 
do not need to consider this point further.
Was the timeshare company authorised to broker loans?
PR argues that the loan was unenforceable as it was arranged without the proper formalities 
required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). In particular, there is a general prohibition that people can only carry on regulated activities in the UK if they are 
authorised to do so (s.19 FMSA) and agreements made through unauthorised people are 
unenforceable (s.27 FSMA). 
At the time the loan was arranged, the regulation of consumer credit activities did not fall 
under FCA regulation and neither the granting of the loan, nor brokering it, were regulated 
activities. It follows, FSMA did not apply to this sale.
However, both GE Money and our investigator, explained to PR that at the relevant time the 
timeshare provider held an OFT licence  the OFT being the body that regulated consumer 
credit. That is because the timeshare provider (whose trading name appears on the face of 
the loan), used a similarly named entity to broker loans with GE Money and that entity held 
an OFT license. PR has been provided with the details of that entity, but has not explained 
why it disagrees with our investigators conclusion on this point. So I think the evidence 
suggests that the loan was properly arranged.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against GE Money Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman