DRN-3822379
The complaint
Mr P complains Cathedral Financial Management Ltd (CFM) mis-sold him an income 
protection policy, meaning he was over-insured.
What happened
In 2016, Mr P took out an income protection policy, together with other policies, on the 
advice of CFM. 
Some years later in 2021, following a financial review, Mr P was told his income protection 
policy taken in 2016 was unnecessary, as he already had policies in place providing the 
same protection, making him over-insured. And, the policy sold to him had a 26 week 
deferred period, which Mr P has said was unsuitable for him, due to the sick pay benefits he 
had via his employer. Because of this, Mr P cancelled the policy in October 2021.
Mr P said hed made CFM aware of the other policies he already had, via a folder of 
information given to the adviser at a meeting. He said this contained details of the income 
protection cover he already had in place. 
Mr P complained to CFM about the sale of the policy. CFM looked into what had happened 
and said a meeting had taken place in September 2015 with Mr P, his accountant and a 
CFM adviser. And it said its adviser had been provided with information for only one of Mr 
Ps existing income protection policies, and thought that this was the entirety of Mr Ps 
existing cover of that type. 
CFM went on to say that its letter sent in 2015 had summarised the existing cover Mr P had 
in place  and this listed just the one income protection policy it was aware of him holding. 
And that its recommendation had been to top up this existing income protection cover with a 
further policy to provide additional cover. CFM said had it been aware that Mr P already held 
another income protection policy at the time, its advice would have been different. And it said 
Mr P had not raised that this additional policy had been overlooked after receiving the 
reports and recommendations. 
However, CFM said on review, it didnt think it should have sold Mr P a policy with a 26 week 
deferred period, but rather the policy should have had a 52 week waiting time. It 
demonstrated how it had calculated this, and confirmed it should have recommended a top 
up policy with a 52 week deferred period, which would have cost less. It offered 
compensation based on the difference in the cost of the two policies provided by the insurer, 
plus compound interest at 8%. 
Unhappy with CFMs response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. He said he had 
been paying for a policy he didnt need for more than five years, and as he was over-insured 
the policy wouldnt have paid out in full in the event of a claim. He asked for the premiums to 
be refunded, with interest. He also said that his two existing income protection policies were 
linked, and were detailed within one policy document, so CFM must have known about both 
policies. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. And said they thought CFM had 
already done enough to put things right. 
CFM made no comments on the investigators view. However Mr P disagreed. In summary 
he said CFM had made two errors, and had only offered to rectify one of them.  
Mr P asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say as CFM provided 
advice, it had a responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr P when it sold it to him. 
This means it had a duty to consider Mr Ps individual needs and circumstances, and based 
on this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable for him.
Having done so, I dont think CFM needs to do anything more to put things right. And Ill 
explain why. 
CFM provided notes taken at a meeting with Mr P in September 2015. These recorded Mr 
Ps demands and needs including details of his salary at the time, dependants, mortgage 
payments and other assets as well as retirement plans. Having reviewed this document, 
there is an action noted for CFM to review Mr Ps existing life cover and permanent health 
insurance. And later a note showing that information about the permanent health insurance 
cover was pending and another meeting was to take place once that was received. 
CFM has also provided a copy of a further fact-finding questionnaire form which was 
completed in September 2015. This reflects that Mr P had said he wanted his existing 
permanent health insurance cover reviewed. And the form was completed to confirm he had 
existing income protection cover and an occupational income protection plan. Details of the 
types of cover already in place were not included on the form. 
A further report from CFM sent in October 2015, detailed the advisers awareness of Mr Ps 
employer providing sickness benefits of full pay for six months and half pay for a further six 
months. And it detailed an income protection policy Mr P already had in place, which had a 
26 week deferred period. 
Ive also reviewed the letter and report CFM provided to Mr P in March 2016, detailing the 
advice given. This confirmed a new income protection policy had been incepted. The 
recommendation was for a policy with a 26 week deferred period, providing £1,800 in cover 
per month. And the report stated Mr P would receive full pay from his employer for six 
months in the event of illness or accident, so a six month / 26 week waiting period had been 
recommended. 
Mr P has said he provided CFM with details of two income protection policies he already 
held in 2015. One with a 26 week deferred period, and another with a 52 week timescale. 
Hes provided photographs of the folder in which he kept his documentation for his existing 
income protection policies, and said this folder was provided in person at the meeting in 
September 2015. Hes also provided copies of two policy schedules: one for the 26 week 
deferred policy, and one for the 52 week policy. Ive thought carefully about what both Mr P and CFM have said about the information 
provided. Mr P has said the policies were linked, so if CFM had the information for the 26 
week policy, it automatically also had the details for the 52 week policy. However Ive 
reviewed the documents Mr P has supplied and there are two separate policy schedules and 
policy numbers for the two types of cover. So I disagree that it couldnt have been possible 
for CFM to have been provided with details of the 26 week policy only. 
As there is no record of the 52 week policy within any of the notes and documentation 
related to the meeting, I think its most likely that CFMs adviser was unaware that Mr P held 
a further policy with a 52 week deferred period. And CFM has said it would have given 
differing advice had it known this policy was already in place. Ive not been sufficiently 
persuaded by the evidence Ive seen, that CFM was told about the existence of the second 
policy, so I dont think it made a mistake in not taking this into account when providing 
advice. 
CFM has acknowledged it made an error in recommending a 26 week deferred period for Mr 
Ps additional income protection cover, as it was aware he already had similar cover in 
place, and sickness benefits through his employer. It accepted this meant Mr P was over-
insured, and said a 52 week deferred period should have been recommended instead. As 
explained above, CFM has offered to put things right by paying Mr P the difference in the 
premiums he would have paid, as a policy with a 52 week period would have been cheaper. 
Ive seen the premium calculations provided by the insurer, and Im satisfied that CFMs offer 
to pay the difference together with interest, is fair. However the interest should be calculated 
from the dates of the original payments Mr P made, up until the date the compensation is 
paid to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Cathedral Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr P the difference in the amount of premiums 
paid between the 26 week and 52 week policies, if it has not already done so. And it should 
pay interest at 8% simple from the date the premiums were originally paid, to the date of 
settlement. 
Cathedral Financial Management Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 
8% simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman