DRN-2897096
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they were mis-sold a Joint Platinum Vantage Account (JPVA) in 
June 2012 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicators for the following 
reasons.
Mr and Mrs D say that Lloyds told them that having a JPVA would improve their credit rating 
and improve their chances of getting a mortgage.
Lloyds says its staff would not have told Mr and Mrs D that, and Mr and Mrs D took out the 
JPVA as it was suitable for them and they used the benefits.
Both parties agree the JPVA was sold in a meeting. I wasnt there and the two parties say 
opposite things about what happened. So, I can only consider the evidence available to me 
now.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the application form Mr and Mrs D signed for the JPVA, so I 
think its more likely than not that Mrs and Mrs D knew they had a choice whether to take out 
the JVPA and they chose to do so.
Mr D had previously held a sole PVA for many years, so I think its more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs D were aware of the type of benefits a packaged bank account provided and that 
they needed to a pay a monthly fee for one.
Lloyds has no record of Mr and Mrs D asking for any credit other than a £200 overdraft over 
the years they held the JPVA. But they did use the benefits, making enquiries about 
products and claims on the insurance. So, in my view Im not able to say that its more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs D took out the JPVA mainly because Lloyds had misinformed them 
that it would improve their credit rating and help them to get a mortgage. And I also cant say 
that I think the JPAV was unsuitable for them.
So, although I know theyll be disappointed by this, in my view Im not able to uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman