DRN-3784246
The complaint
Mr B complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) decision to decline cover for a 
claim under his home contents insurance. 
What happened
Mr Bs bike was stolen from a communal area of the property where he lives. Mr B made a 
claim to Ageas but this was declined on the basis Mr Bs bike was stolen from an area which 
was outside the boundary of his flat. Mr B complained and Ageas responded and explained 
they maintain their decision to decline the claim as the boundary of Mr Bs home means his 
flat and not the social areas within the building accessible by all persons. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and Ageas on 4 October 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows: 
     
My starting point is Mr Bs home contents insurance policy. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and says, When we use the word home, we mean the property, 
including any garages and outbuildings, at the address which youve insured. The 
policy says Ageas will pay claims if Mr Bs contents are stolen from his home. Ageas 
declined to cover Mr Bs claim on the basis his bike wasnt stolen from his home. So, 
Ive looked into whether Ageas decision is fair and reasonable. 
Mr B explains his flat is one of three in the property. Access to the property is gained 
through a locked door which requires a key. Mr B says, once through the door, this 
leads to the communal area. 
Mr B says, theres one flat on the ground floor and then a set of stairs leads up to a 
small landing area, and then a further set of stairs leading to the two remaining flats  
one of these being Mr Bs. Mr B explains only the residents of the property have a 
key to the communal door and their own key to their respective flat. When Mr B 
reported the incident to Ageas, he explains the bike was secured with a magnet lock 
and the communal door to the property is known to not always close and locked 
properly. I can see, in his statement to the police, Mr B says, on discovering his bike 
stolen, I assumed that someone had left the front door unlocked and another person 
had come in and taken it. It was later established that someone had gained entry 
into the property through Mr Bs neighbours flat window  and Mr B believes the 
same person stole his bike. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Bs bike was stolen from a communal area outside his flat. 
The dispute between the parties seems to centre on whether the communal area 
should be classed as forming part of Mr Bs home in line with the policy. Ageas say a 
communal area cant reasonably be expected to form part of a customers home. 
They say a customer wouldnt leave other contents such as a television, wallet or 
jewellery in a communal area so the same applies for a bike  and thats why they 
believe the communal area of a property cant be treated as being part of the insured 
home. I understand Mr B says he contacted the property management in charge of 
the premises and has been told he, as well as the other residents, are responsible for 
the security and cleanliness of the communal area  and therefore this would classify 
as being part of his home. 
Having considered the opposing views and the terms and conditions, I think its 
reasonable to treat the communal area as being part of Mr Bs home. I say this 
because the terms and conditions say By outbuildings, we mean sheds, 
greenhouses and other fully enclosed permanent structures. So, if, as Ageas argue, 
Mr Bs home is limited to his flat alone, then I think its reasonable to treat the 
communal area as an outbuilding as its arguably a fully enclosed permanent 
structure.  
That takes me to another section of the policy which says Ageas wont pay claims for 
Theft or attempted theft when your home or any part of it is lent, let or sublet to 
someone who is not a member of your family, unless theres damage to the building 
during the break-in. So, as Ive taken the view that the communal area should be 
treated as an outbuilding, its fair to say this area is also let to the other residents as 
they have access to it. And, given theyre not part of Mr Bs family, the only 
circumstances in which Ageas will pay the claim is if there has been damage to the 
building. Ive looked at the witness statement Mr B provided to the police. The police 
ask Mr B what damage was caused in order for the person to gain entry into the 
property, and Mr B responds, No Damage was done. Entrance was via the window 
in flat A. So, applying this part of the policy, I dont think Ageas have acted unfairly in 
declining the claim.  
I can see our investigator has referred to a section of the policy which says Ageas 
will pay claims if a customer has kept their bike in a locked building, or if theyve 
locked it to a post, cycle rack or other immovable object. Ageas have challenged this 
and point out this forms part of their optional Bicycle cover which Mr B didnt 
purchase. Ive looked at this optional cover and it says a customer is only covered 
under this section if it says so on their policy summary. Ive looked at Mr Bs policy 
summary and it doesnt include this additional cover, so I dont think its fair to 
consider the terms and conditions under this section.  
Mr B has my sympathy and I acknowledge being a victim of crime will have been a 
very upsetting event for him. My role is to decide whether Ageas have acted fairly in 
declining the claim. And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr B and Ageas, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to not uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, Ageas havent responded with any further points. Mr B 
has responded to say Ageas comparison of his bike with a television or jewellery is 
unreasonable as nobody would leave those items in communal areas. But, carrying a heavy 
bike to the top floor is dangerous and impractical so the same argument shouldnt apply to 
his bike being left in the communal area. 
Mr B says the communal area has a lock on the entrance to the door and the communal 
area wasnt breached or damaged  instead the burglar gained access through a residents 
window which allowed them access to the communal area. And, therefore, it didnt require 
the burglar to damage any doors when escaping. Mr B says Ageas comment about meeting 
the claim if the bike was kept in a locked area contradicts their reasoning as the bike was 
kept in a locked area.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
not uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied 
above.
I acknowledge Mr Bs point about Ageas comparing his bike with a television or jewellery 
and I do understand there might be practical limitations around carrying a bike to and from 
his flat. I also acknowledge Mr Bs point about what he believes is a contradictory statement 
by Ageas. But this isnt the reason for me not upholding the complaint and my provisional 
decision sets out why I believe the communal area should be treated as an outbuilding. I 
note Mr Bs explanation of the route taken by the burglar to gain access and escape from the 
building  and I also take on board how this wouldnt have required the burglar to cause any 
damage. But, the terms and conditions set out a requirement for there to have been damage 
during the break-in so, given the circumstances leading to the claim in this case, Ageas 
havent acted unfairly in relying on this to decline the claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman