DRN-3857382
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service received from Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB).
What happened
The complaint Mr R has brought to our service is in two parts:
1. ARB blocked access to Mr Rs accounts when he failed to answer security questions 
correctly.
2. Problems Mr R encountered when trying to close his accounts.
Our investigator considered part one of Mr Rs complaint to be out of time as ARB 
responded with their final response to this part of Mr Rs complaint in April 2020. Mr R 
agreed with our investigators findings. So, part one of this complaint doesnt form part of my 
decision as its already been agreed that its out of our services jurisdiction.
Mr R says that he tried to close his ARB accounts over the phone, but because he hadnt 
reset his security details since he failed them in 2020, ARB wasnt able to accept his 
telephone instruction. Mr R was told to reset these using the online app, in writing by post or 
to visit a branch.
On Mr Rs return to the UK after spending time abroad, he tried to visit an ARB branch as 
instructed by ARB. But the branch he went to visit had closed down. Mr R complained to 
ARB that he was told to visit a branch that had closed down, and that he didnt receive any 
notification that this branch would be closing. ARB responded to Mr Rs complaint to say that 
branch closures are only communicated to customers who had the closing branch recorded 
as their default branch. They added that information regarding any branch closures was 
posted on ARBs website and posters were also displayed in the branch. Unhappy with 
ARBs response Mr R contacted our service to further his complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint and explained that they didnt find that 
ARB had provided Mr R with misinformation to visit a closed branch, or that ARB failed to 
notify him of their decision to close his local branch.
Mr R rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. He said  in 
summary, that the investigator had taken a holistic approach rather than focusing on the 
technicalities. So, the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware thar Mr R has responded to our investigators findings with multiple points. Im not 
going to respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our 
rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
ARB telling Mr R to go to a branch
ARB have sent me a recording of the call Mr R had with them on 19 March 2022 when he 
called them to request closure of his accounts. Mr R initially said that during this call ARB 
told him to visit a branch that had already closed to reset his security details.
Ive listened to the call, and I couldnt identify that the call handler said to Mr R to visit a 
specific ARB branch. The call handler explains the options Mr R had in which to reset the 
security on his accounts.  And one of the options was to visit one of ARBs branches. But   
Mr R was only informed to visit a branch, and it wasnt specified which branch. 
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr R agreed that ARB shouldnt need to 
inform all their customers before they close a specific branch. But he says ARB should 
inform customers that need to visit a branch before closing all their branches, only leaving a 
branch accessible to premier customers to use. Mr R says as ARB knew that hed need to 
visit a branch, and they even suggested this as one of the options to reset the security on his 
accounts, they should have told him all branches would be closing. Our investigator didnt 
comment on this; however, Ill cover this point in my decision as Im not persuaded that it 
impacts the outcome of the complaint.
Visiting a branch to re-set Mr Rs security details was only one of the options given to Mr R. 
He was also informed that he could do this in writing or through ARBs mobile banking app. I 
appreciate Mr R was reluctant to send the information in writing for security reasons, so I can 
understand why he may have wanted to visit a branch. And that it wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr R on his return to the UK to find that when he went to visit a branch it had been 
closed.
But I think its important to set out the timeline of events. Having looked at ARBs website, I 
can see that the branch Mr R visited closed on 3 August 2022, this was before his visit to the 
UK in the summer of 2022. But Mr R called ARB in March 2022, and, at this point, the 
branch Mr R subsequently went to was still open. So, I wouldnt have expected ARBs call 
handling staff to have known at this point that Mr R didnt intend to visit a branch until several 
months later. And even if they did know this, I think its most unlikely they wouldve known 
that ARB was going to close all their branches. So, I dont find that Mr R was given incorrect 
information by ARB to visit a branch when he called them in March 2022.
ARBs failure to communicate the closure of Mr Rs local branch
ARB have explained that when they make the decision to close one of their branches, they 
put notification of the branch closure on their website, and theyll write to all the customers 
whos default branch it is to inform them of the closure.
They explained that Mr R was sent a letter in August 2021 advising him of the closure of his 
own default branch. This branch was different to the branch Mr R attempted to visit. So, I 
accept that Mr R wouldnt have received direct notification of the closure of the branch he 
went to visit  or indeed any other branch. But I dont find that ARB have made a mistake in 
not personally notifying Mr R of the closure of his non-default branches.  Im satisfied ARB 
have acted fairly regarding the notification of any branch closures.
As a resolution to his complaint Mr R said hed like his accounts closed, and money that was 
unfairly charged to him returned and compensation for the inconvenience caused. Its likely the charges Mr R is referring to are those applied to his account in early 2022 for unpaid 
Standing Orders (SOs) due to insufficient funds in the account. 
ARB suspended Mr Rs account in 2020 due to failed security and so Mr R didnt have 
access to his accounts to be able to check his account balances. However, ARB explained 
to Mr R that he needed to reset his security details to gain access to his accounts again, and 
they told Mr R how he could do this. But Mr R didnt follow this up until he received a letter 
from ARB about the unpaid SO charges on his account in 2022. Had Mr R reset his security 
on the accounts earlier, he wouldve had access to his accounts to monitor the account 
balances to avoid any charges due to having insufficient funds in the account. I haven't seen 
anything to suggest the charges were applied incorrectly and theyve been added in line with 
the account terms and conditions. 
More recently ARB have confirmed theyre now willing to close Mr Rs accounts and transfer 
any outstanding credit balance to Mr Rs nominated account, and ARB are willing to do this 
without the need for him to confirm his security details. But for the reasons explained above, 
as I dont think ARB have acted unfairly, I dont see any grounds to award compensation. 
Overall, Im satisfied ARB have treated Mr R fairly. I know Mr R will be disappointed, but Im 
not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Al Rayan Bank 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman