DRN-1554940
 
The complaint
Mr S says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1990 Mr S took out a Halifax mortgage along with PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr S disagrees. He 
mainly complains that PPI wasnt presented as optional or properly explained. Mr S says that 
he didn't need PPI as his job was very secure with good sick pay and no possibility of 
redundancy. Mr S also said his parents mightve been able to help out with his mortgage 
repayments if required. 
Hes also unhappy that Halifax didn't explain that he wouldnt be covered if he got the sack 
or that he wasnt able to claim for a number of months if he changed his employment. And 
hes concerned that were not relying on the correct policy document.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. But 
that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr S told us he took out the PPI 
during a meeting at a Halifax branch so I think its likely thats what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr S has told us about the way he says Halifax sold him 
the PPI. But what Mr S says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr S to recall exactly what was discussed at 
the time.
I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Mr Ss 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see 
why Mr S mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely understand why he mightve 
forgotten some of the details from the sale. But, on balance, I think its likely that Mr S 
decided he wanted to have the benefits and security that PPI offered and he chose to buy 
the policy. As Mr S says he took out the policy during a meeting, Halifax looked at his complaint on the 
basis that it wouldve advised him to take out PPI. Given the lack of paperwork showing how 
Halifax sold Mr S the PPI, I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes 
extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt 
just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr S was eligible for the PPI. 
When thinking about the policy benefits, I have to rely on the best available evidence  and 
thats the 1993 policy document that Halifax has provided. I can understand Mr Ss 
frustration that this policy document is dated after he took out his PPI. But this is the earliest 
available policy of this type. I think its fair to say that I've got no reason to think that this 
policy wording is likely to be significantly different from the wording used in any earlier 
version of Halifaxs mortgage PPI, at least so far as the main policy benefits and terms are 
concerned. So I think its reasonable to rely on this policy document to give an idea of the 
main likely terms.
I think its likely that the policy wouldve paid out in full for up to 24 months per claim in the 
event of an accident or illness that prevented Mr S from working. Even taking into account 
his generous sick pay through work, it wouldve paid out on top of work benefits (and 
possibly for a guaranteed longer period than he couldve been certain of getting through 
work. Bearing in mind that Mr S mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell 
to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to 
have been a difficult time.   
Mr S had what was traditionally regarded as a job for life at the time. But there can be no 
guarantee that any job will always be secure in all circumstances and for all time. And in the 
event Mr S later changed jobs. So a policy that paid out for up to 12 months for any one 
claim if Mr S lost his job and became unexpectedly unemployed couldve been of use to him. 
And Mr S couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term protection for 
his mortgage.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Having PPI meant Mr S could be sure hed always be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect his home. So, looking at Mr Ss circumstances at the time, 
I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr  S about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if he was affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover.
Mr S was worried that he wouldnt be covered for a period of time if he changed jobs  but I 
think thats because hes misunderstood the policy wording. In order to make a claim for 
unemployment cover he had to be able to show hed been continuously employed for 
12 months  and he met that requirement because he been in work for a lot longer than 
12 months when he took out the policy. And if he changed jobs, he could've still claimed as 
long as his employment was continuous  in other words, if he didn't have an unusually 
long break between his old job and his new job. And he couldve made an unemployment 
claim three months after starting the policy which isnt an unusual or onerous policy term. Also, as our adjudicator has explained, PPI provides protection in the event of unexpected or 
unplanned events over which the policy holder has no control  PPI doesnt protect people 
against being given the sack for misconduct. 
So, I dont think its likely that having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve made any difference to Mr Ss decision to take out PPI. It wouldve 
provided him with cover in all the circumstances Id expect he would have been likely to 
claim. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr S when he bought the policy. But, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums at the time. And he 
couldve cancelled the policy at any time at no additional cost if his circumstances changed 
or he no longer wanted to pay to keep PPI. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a 
different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think hed still have taken it out. 
So I dont find that Mr S has lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong. This means it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken carefully into account all Mr Ss comments. Although he 
mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint I can see that our 
adjudicator has already responded on those issues. Beyond the comments I've put in my 
decision, which I hope are useful, I dont feel theres anything more I can usefully add to 
what our adjudicator has already said. 
I've concentrated on dealing with all the main points raised that affect the outcome of this 
complaint. I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman