DRN-3120121
The complaint
Mr B and Ms T are unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms T had a holiday abroad booked in April 2020. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. On 23 March 2020 Mr B and Ms T 
cancelled their trip. The FCDO advice remained in place at the point of Mr B and Ms Ts 
planned departure date.
Mr B and Ms T claimed on their travel insurance policy. The claim was declined on the 
basis that there was no cover under the policy as cancellation for a change in FCDO 
advice wasnt listed as an insured event under the policy terms and conditions. And there 
was also no cover due to government action. Mr B and Ms T complained to ERGO, but 
they maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr B and Ms T asked our 
service to look into their complaint.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She noted that 
Mr B and Ms T had been able to recover the majority of their losses, which left around 
£100 outstanding. She didnt think that the combined effect of the policy terms would have 
been clear to Mr B and Ms T and that this hadnt been clearly drawn to their attention. She 
recommended that ERGO treat the claim as if it were covered by the cancellation section 
of the policy.
Mr B and Ms T accepted the investigators findings. ERGO didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary they said that the policy covered 
specified perils and that a change a change of FCDO advice wasnt an insured peril. They 
said that this was standard industry practice and that simply because there was a general 
exclusion in the policy for travel against FCDO advice it didnt mean that the cancellation 
section should cover it. 
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I set out the relevant policy terms and 
conditions and explained that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr B and Ms Ts complaint. In 
summary, I said: 
I thought that there was another term in the policy which was relevant to Mr B and 
Ms Ts complaint as there was an exclusion for claims caused or contributed to, by 
or on the order of any government, public or local authority 
On 18 March 2020 the country Mr B and Ms T were due to visit suspended visits 
from UK citizens and on 23 March 2020 the UK government enforced wide-ranging 
restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. Mr B and Ms T first 
took steps to cancel their trip on that date. I thought it was likely that these factors 
were relevant to their decision to cancel their holiday
It wasnt unreasonable for ERGO to apply the exclusion in the circumstances of this 
case as I was satisfied that the UK and foreign governments restrictions on 
movement could reasonably be considered to fall within this exclusion. 
Mr B and Ms T said that they understood and accepted my provisional decision. ERGO 
also accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision theres no reason for me to reach a 
different outcome to that which Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision. 
I remain satisfied that ERGO can fairly rely on the exclusion for claims caused or contributed 
to, by or on the order of any government, public or local authority in the circumstances of this 
case. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman