DRN-3995544
The complaint
Mrs V complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
She says that Barclays didnt do enough to protect her from becoming the victim of a scam 
and would like Barclays to refund her the money she has lost.
What happened
In 2021, Mrs V was looking online for investment opportunities and came across a company 
called Legal-cost finance. She submitted an enquiry and was contacted the next day by 
phone.
Mrs V says that the person who contacted her appeared highly professional and built up a 
good rapport with her. She supplied them with identification which added to the legitimacy of 
who she was dealing with. Mrs V also asked for the company registration number and 
address. Mrs V was persuaded to download AnyDesk onto her computer and invest in gold 
and silver funded via purchasing cryptocurrency.
Mrs V initially made a small investment and was then further persuaded by the trading 
platform she was provided which apparently showed her live investments. Mrs V was then 
told that another client had dropped out of a Covid-19 contract and if she invested more 
money, she would be able to move up to a higher category and make more money and 
make a withdrawal.
In total, Mrs V made nine payments, to a total of £18,375.92.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs V was told that she would be able to withdraw money, but that she 
needed to pay more money to do so. Mrs V then realised she had been the victim of a scam.
Mrs V complained to Barclays, but it didnt uphold her complaint. She then brought her 
complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Unhappy, Mrs V asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs V, so I will explain why.
Was Mrs V the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Mrs V was the victim of a scam. She was taken in 
by the promise of investment returns that didnt materialise by a scammer posing as a 
broker. The scammer took steps to befriend and persuade Mrs V that he was genuine and 
persuaded her to download AnyDesk onto her computer. 
Did Mrs V authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs V isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive 
considered whether Mrs V authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, I dont think that it is in dispute here that Mrs V authorised the payments in 
question. They were made using her own credit and debit cards, and she confirmed with 
Barclays that she wanted to make the payments. I understand that Mrs V had been tricked 
by the scammer into instructing Barclays to make the payments  but while Mrs V never 
intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact that she 
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Should Barclays have prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Mrs V made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before 
it happened.
Mrs V authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mrs V started out making a small payment to the scammer of £89.48  so I wouldnt have 
expected Barclays to intervene here.However, Mrs V then attempted to make a larger payment of around £1,680, and Barclays 
blocked the payment. Barclays has provided the call that took place on 26 October 2021 with 
Mrs V about the payment which I have listened to.
In this call, Barclays questioned Mrs V about the payment and how she had come across the 
investment. Mrs V was truthful with Barclays during this call, including that she was 
purchasing crypto, and that she had downloaded AnyDesk onto her computer. 
Barclays explained to Mrs V during this call that it sounded like a scam  and that she 
shouldnt make the payment. It also told her that the business she was dealing with was no 
longer authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and expressed concern that she 
had downloaded AnyDesk onto her device. It told her that she should delete the AnyDesk 
application and run an anti-virus check on her computer. Mrs V expressed that it was a 
shame as she had some profit in the account. At the end of the call, it told her again that it 
was very likely she was being scammed.
However, while this payment never left her account, Mrs V continued to make further 
payments to the scammer. 
Mrs V says that Barclays should have intervened again when she made a later payment on 
12 November 2021 of just over £4,400.
While I agree that this payment was unusual for Mrs V, and that Barclays should have 
intervened at this point for a second time, I would also have to agree that a second 
intervention from Barclays would have made a difference  and I dont think that it would. 
Barclays had already given Mrs V a meaningful warning that she was very likely being 
scammed  but she chose to ignore this and continue to pay the scammer. 
So, I dont think that there was any more that Barclays could have said that would have 
stopped Mrs V. She was obviously convinced of the scammers legitimacy was so taken in 
by the scam that she wanted to continue regardless of what Barclays was saying to her.
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mrs V now finds herself in  she has been the 
victim of a cruel scam  this is not in dispute. However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused 
by the scammers themselves  not Barclays. And I cant ask Barclays to refund this loss 
when I think it provided a meaningful warning and Mrs V chose to ignore it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman