DRN-2811859
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way OVO (S) Home Services Limited, trading as SSE, handled his 
request to cancel his home emergency insurance.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr B phoned SSE to discuss cancelling his home emergency policy. Mr B said 
he asked the adviser he spoke to whether there would be a charge for cancelling his policy 
and was told there wouldnt be. So, he cancelled it. About a week later, SSE contacted Mr B 
to say he owed about £200 for cancelling his policy. Mr B thought this was unfair and he 
complained to SSE. 
SSE was satisfied it had applied the cancellation charge in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs policy. It said it had listened to the relevant call but neither Mr B nor the 
adviser hed spoken to had mentioned a cancellation fee. But it said the adviser should have 
transferred him to its cancellations team to discuss the charge. Because that didnt happen, 
it agreed to reduce the balance he owed to £100 as a gesture of goodwill. SSE also said it 
would place the amount he owed on hold. It said it couldnt stop its system generating letters 
asking for the balance to be repaid. But it would stop the balance being passed to its debt 
collectors. Mr B wasnt happy with SSEs response and so complained to this service. He 
said he was still being contacted by a debt collection agency despite SSE saying it wouldnt 
pass the debt to them. 
Our investigator was satisfied SSE had made Mr B aware of a cancellation fee when it had 
sent him the policy documents prior to the telephone call of May 2020. And while she said 
there was contradictory evidence about what was said in that call, she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to say Mr B had been told there wouldnt be a cancellation fee. So, she 
thought the reduction in the fee to £100 was a fair outcome for not transferring his call to the 
right team. But she thought SSE should do more to acknowledge the impact on Mr B of 
continuing to be contacted by the debt collection agency after hed been told the debt 
wouldnt be passed to them. She thought £100 was a fair way of putting that right.
SSE agreed to the investigators view and said it would use the £100 to write off the debt 
Mr B owed. Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators view. He thought the note of the call he 
had with SSE didnt accurately reflect the conversation hed had. And thought SSE should 
pay him about £500 for continuing to be contacted by the debt collector. As Mr B remains 
unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy sets out when a cancellation charge applies. 
Section 16 is called Ending your policy and sets out the circumstances when a termination 
charge will be applied and how the amount of that charge is calculated. The renewal pack 
sent to Mr B in December 2019 also set out how Mr B could cancel his policy and what 
charges would be applied. So, Im satisfied SSE notified Mr B that charges would apply if he 
chose to cancel his policy.
SSE no longer has a recording of the call Mr B made in May 2020 so I cant be sure what 
was said. But SSE did listen to the call shortly afterwards and said its adviser hadnt 
mentioned a fee and neither had Mr B. I recognise Mr B doesnt agree with that. And while I 
have no reason to doubt his recollection of the call, on balance and in light of the evidence 
that is available, I think it would be unfair to say SSE misled him about the cancellation 
charge. 
SSE accepts the call would normally have been transferred to its cancellations team and 
Mr B would then have been told about the charge. SSE has acknowledged it should have 
discussed the charge with him and its reduced it from about £200 to £100 to recognise the 
frustration caused. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Mr B was also unhappy that SSE had instructed a debt collection agency to collect the debt 
even though it had told him it wouldnt do that. Our investigator thought SSE should pay 
Mr B £100 to recognise the impact of that, while Mr B believes £500 would be more 
reasonable. When we consider what a business needs to do to put things right, we look at 
the impact any mistake or poor service has had on the individual. Mr B continued to receive 
correspondence from the debt collection agency even though SSE had told him it wouldnt 
forward the debt to them. This meant he had to spend time contacting SSE to find out what 
was happening, and I can understand why he found this frustrating and annoying. In the 
circumstances, I think £100 is an appropriate way of recognising the frustration and 
inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
In light of the above, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for SSE to pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused by 
its poor service. SSE has suggested it use the £100 to offset the £100 cancellation charge 
Mr B owes and, if it chooses to do that, I think thats reasonable. Either way, it should let 
Mr B know what it intends to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint to the extent set out above. OVO (S) Home 
Services Limited, trading as SSE, should either pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its poor service. Or use that amount to offset the £100 cancellation charge he 
owes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman