DRN-2901202
The complaint
Miss C complains that she was wrongly advised by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). She now 
believes this advice was unsuitable.
What happened
In 1999 Miss C met an adviser from Prudential and was advised to take out a personal 
pension and contract-out of SERPS. Prudentials records show that at the time Miss Cs 
annual income was over £5,000 and she was 30 years old.
Prudentials representative referred to its in-house checks and said Miss C met the criteria 
where contracting-out could be beneficial for her. Prudential says standard practice meant 
an illustration was prepared for Miss C and she then agreed to take out the personal pension 
and contract-out of SERPS.
Once she was contracted-out, a proportion of Miss Cs National Insurance Contributions was 
taken and invested in Prudentials With-Profits Fund instead of going into SERPS. 
In June 2020, Miss C complained to Prudential, with the help of a representative. Her 
representative said the advice to contract-out of SERPS was unsuitable for a number of 
reasons, including:
Miss C shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of significantly lower retirement 
income;
she wasnt informed of, and shouldnt have been exposed to, unnecessary fund 
costs;
she was exposed to a pension linked to the stock market instead of valuable 
guarantees within SERPS including inflation protected benefits; and
the advice was in breach of the regulators rules at the time and the common law 
duty to act with reasonable care and skill, and to disclose material information 
regarding risks, costs and available alternatives in order to allow informed consent.
Prudential didnt accept that it had done anything wrong. It said Miss C met its criteria for  
establishing whether contracting-out was likely to be beneficial, and it would have explained 
there was no guarantee she would be better off.
When Miss C referred the complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said:
Prudentials criteria were fair and reasonable and met the required standards at the 
time;
Miss C met the criteria and it was reasonable at that time to think she would be better 
off if she contracted out of SERPS;
there wasnt anything to show Prudential did something wrong  it told Miss C about 
the risks and the information it provided was in line with what was required.
Miss C didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision. Her 
representative said the most important consideration wasnt Miss Cs age or income, but risk 
 she wasnt informed about the risk and, if she had been, she would not have been willing 
to accept it.
The investigator considered this but didnt change his view. So the complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the late 1980s the government decided to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS. It 
wanted to allow more choice and move pension provision from the State to the private 
sector. Where someone contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, some of their 
National Insurance contributions (referred to as rebates) were re-directed into a personal 
pension plan. The idea was that these rebates would be invested and build up a fund that 
could be used to buy benefits that would otherwise have been provided by SERPS. 
One of the critical issues was to decide the level of rebate to be applied. If they were set too 
low, the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment within the 
personal pension. If they were set too high, the government would be paying more than it 
needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities. 
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking 
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the rebate level 
suggested by GAD, the government added an additional 2% annual incentive payment that 
would apply until 1993. The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. This meant 
it was more attractive for younger individuals to contract-out than older people, who had less 
time before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates. 
The government didnt give advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS and 
those for whom it was expected that contracting out would be beneficial. So the actuaries at 
various pension providers carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS 
against the personal pension arrangement (based on the regulators set assumptions of 
likely future investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit. The ages where the 
providers advice as to whether to contract out or not would likely be beneficial were called 
pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit, which was used to decide whether an 
applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting out. 
At the time of contracting out Miss C was below the relevant pivotal age, and her earnings 
were above the lower earnings limit. So on the face of it, against these criteria, it would have 
appeared likely she would be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS.
The regulator set out a code of conduct for advisers to follow. They were required to 
exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors  and to give the 
investor all information relevant to those dealings and  and to use best endeavours to 
enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved
The regulator also had specific requirements in relation to contracting-out of SERPS, and its 
members had to provide illustrations in a certain way. This included using a premium for 
illustration purposes of the minimum rebate payable for that year. The projections were set 
at two specified rates. The rates used were referred to as real rates of return (taking into 
account the effects of inflation). The rates of return were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the 
National Average Earnings index and the projections were to include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding nominal rate of return could be used of 8.5% and 
13% inclusive of charges. These rates of return were referred to as being conservative.
Miss Cs representative has also referred to general legal duties to use reasonable care and 
skill, and not to make negligent mis-statements. As the regulators rules largely reflect those 
duties I have focused on those rules.
At the time of the advice, the pivotal age at which Prudential considered it likely women 
would benefit from contracting-out of SERPS was below 35, and the minimum salary was 
over £5,000 per year. Prudentials calculations took into account the charges that would be 
applied to that particular product. Its assumed rate of return in carrying out these calculations 
was 8.5%. This is in-line with the lower rate of return set for projections on illustrations and 
demonstrated what was thought likely to be achievable at the time.
Many of the pivotal ages for women at the time were higher than Prudentials and many
minimum salaries were lower. In the context of the economic climate and the rules of the 
day, Im satisfied Prudential met what I would consider good practice at the time.
I think the illustration provided to Miss C would have shown that the amount payable at 
retirement date was subject to the growth rates used in the illustrations being achieved.
Theres an issue here that the advice was given to Miss C over 30 years ago, and she took 
her benefits in 2018. So theres very little documentation from the time the advice was given. 
Its very difficult to say exactly what was and wasnt discussed about the risks of contracting 
out. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Prudential has provided a copy of the Members Booklet, which would likely have been sent 
to Miss C at the time. This does explain the plans charges, and that at retirement date it  
would be the value of the units in the plan that would be used to provide pension benefits. 
The terms and conditions would likely have been sent to Miss C after shed taken the plan 
out. And theres no clear warning about the risks that her pension could be lower than if she 
remained in SERPS. However, although a copy of the illustration isnt available, it was 
normal practice to provide an illustration at that time. Given Miss Cs age, an illustration 
would likely have shown she would get higher benefits from contracting out of SERPS, and I 
cant think of a reason why the adviser would not have provided a copy. So I think its more 
likely than not that an illustration was given to Miss C.
At the time, Miss C was aged 30 and earning more than £5,000 per year. So she was below 
the pivotal age and earned more than the minimum amount regarded by Prudentials 
actuaries as enough to accumulate funds in the plan after covering the charges. 
Miss Cs representative has said the key point isnt Miss Cs age, or her income, but the risk 
involved - Miss C was giving up a valuable guaranteed pension in exchange for a pension 
that could be lower. He says she wasnt informed of the risk in the product recommended or 
the costs associated with it. And he says even if the advice was suitable, theres no evidence 
her contributions were diversified across different funds, so she was exposed to too much 
risk.
I agree there was a risk associated with contracting out. So when deciding whether it was 
suitable for Miss C to contract out, the adviser had to take risk into account and to alert her 
to the risks involved, which could ultimately lead to her receiving a lower pension.
There is no record of what level of risk Miss C was prepared to take. But there werent the 
same requirements as there are today to complete a documented risk analysis. Prudential say the adviser would have discussed the risks and carried out a risk assessment. At the 
time there wasnt a requirement to complete a fact-find document.
Miss C would have been given a personal quotation which was designed in line with what 
the regulator  required. This could be used to compare the likely benefits from the personal
pension with SERPS. It would have explained that the two pension figures estimated at 
retirement were based on growth of 2.5% per year in excess of the national average 
earnings yearly increase and 0.5% in excess of the same measure. The pension at
retirement included 3% escalation and a 50% spouses pension as required.
Miss C was made aware that she was giving up the SERPS benefit in favour of an 
investment linked to returns and she was provided with the specified figures to see whether 
it was likely she would be better off.
I appreciate diversification is a well-known risk management tool, but the risks have to be 
considered in the context of the type of plan arranged. We dont have information showing 
the make-up of the fund. But Prudential says the funds were invested in a spread of asset 
classes, and that would generally be the case with these types of funds. Miss C had over 20 
years to retirement date, and that would generally be enough time to take some risk. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest she wasnt willing to take some risks at the time. In 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the fund was unsuitable. 
Miss Cs representative has also argued that the costs within the fund and the impact of 
inflation represented an unnecessary risk. The regulator had specified that in providing 
figures for comparison, firms had to provide the potential benefits from the personal pension 
in a form it felt comparable to the benefits from SERPS. And the charges were included 
within the projections and in Prudentials actuarial calculations with regard to who would 
likely benefit from contracting-out with its personal pension.
For the reasons Ive set out above, at the time that Miss C contracted-out in 1989 it was 
thought  using conservative assumptions  that given her age and level of earnings she 
would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. The documentation 
doesnt show that she was clearly warned there was a risk she could get a lower pension by 
contracting out. So its likely the adviser would have presented contracting out in a 
favourable light. On the other hand, I think Miss C was likely to have been alerted to the fact 
that the benefits at retirement date depended on the performance of the investments and the 
growth rates shown in the illustration being achieved. This would have indicated to her that 
there were no guarantees. Given Miss Cs age and earnings, I think it would have been 
considered likely she would improve on the benefits that would otherwise have been 
obtained from SERPS by contracting out. 
There was no guarantee Miss C would be better off by contracting out of SERPS; there was 
some risk involved. But in my view contracting out would have appeared a relatively low risk 
at that time. Ive seen no evidence to persuade me Miss C wasnt willing to take any risk. I 
think its unlikely someone of her age and circumstances would have thought the risk was 
unacceptable.
Taking all the above onto account, and if the risks had been explained in the appropriate 
context, I dont think, on balance, its more likely than not that Miss C would have made a 
different decision about contracting out. Overall I dont think that contracting out was 
unsuitable for Miss C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman