DRN-2216763
The complaint
Miss T complains that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited declined her claim against her 
motor insurance policy. Reference to Tradewise includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss T says that she parked her car near her house at about 3pm and last 
saw it at around 6pm. Early the following morning, the police visited Miss Ts home and told 
her that her car had been stolen and recovered after it had been driven by the thieves, who 
caused damage to Miss Ts car and other cars. It transpired that on the evening before, a 
visitor to Miss Ts home took one of her car keys and, with another man who was unknown 
to Miss T, stole her car. The visitor who took Miss Ts car was subsequently convicted of 
aggravated vehicle taking.
Miss T made a claim against her policy. Tradewise instructed an engineer who said that the 
car was a category N, total loss, which means that it didnt have structural damage but 
would cost more to repair than it was worth. The engineer estimated the repair costs as 
£9,911.99. He said that the pre accident value of the car, after deduction of the salvage was 
£7,799.
Tradewise instructed an enquiry agent to interview Miss T. It subsequently declined       
Miss Ts claim. Tradewise relied on an exclusion in the policy which said that it didnt cover 
loss or damage caused by theft or any malicious act by Miss Ts friend or a member of her 
family. It said that it appreciated that Miss Ts visitor hadnt been found to be the driver at 
the time of the incident, but hed expedited the theft by taking the car keys.
Miss T says that in July 2019, she paid to have her car returned to her from the salvage 
yard and subsequently paid £800 for repairs.
Miss T didnt think that Tradewise acted fairly in declining her claim. She said that her visitor 
isnt related to her biologically or by law and is not her friend. Miss T wants Tradewise to
deal with her claim. She says that she needed her car to get to work.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that it was fair for 
Tradewise to rely on the exclusion in order to decline Miss Ts claim. The investigator said 
that the policy doesnt define family and the visitor wasnt a family member. She said that 
the policy didnt exclude cover in the circumstances that arose here. The investigator said 
that it wasnt in dispute that the theft of Miss Ts car occurred. She said that Tradewise 
should review the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Tradewise didnt agree with the investigator. It said whilst the policy didnt define family 
member it was satisfied that the visitor could be considered a member of Miss Ts 
extended family, even if not biologically connected. But even if he wasnt a family member, 
he was invited into her house as a friend for dinner. Tradewise said it had every sympathy 
with Miss T and it doesnt dispute the circumstances of the theft, but it hadnt received 
evidence that the visitor had been found guilty of theft.
There were further exchanges, which I wont set out here. As there was no agreement 
between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 14 August 2020, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said:
 The starting point is Miss Ts policy, which provides cover for theft but excludes cover 
for: 
15) Loss or damage occasioned by theft or attempted theft or any malicious act 
expedited by or in anyway brought about by the Insured, any Employee, Partner, 
Director, Friend or member of their families.
Its established that Miss Ts car was stolen. Where an insurer wishes to rely on an 
exclusion in the policy, it has to show that the exclusion applies in the circumstances that 
arise. I dont think its done that here and Ill explain why.
The policy doesnt define either Friend or member of their families. So, I proceed 
based on the ordinary, natural meaning of those words. I dont think that Tradewise has 
shown that the visitor was Miss Ts friend or a member of her family.
Tradewise relies on the enquiry agents report. I appreciate that Tradewises enquiry agent 
describes the relationship between Miss T and the visitor as one of step-parent/step-son 
but thats not definitive.
Miss T says that the visitor isnt related to her but is related to her dependent children, as he 
is their half-brother  they share the same father. She says that she was never married to or 
lived with his father and never shared a household with him. Miss T says that shes known 
him since he was four years old but neither she nor her children had any contact with him 
for several years, until approximately a month before the theft of her car. That was when the 
visitor moved to their area and contacted her children. As she didnt know him, she agreed 
to facilitate contact between him and her children at her home, as she wasnt ready to trust 
him or leave her children in his sole care. She says that the hospitality she showed was 
exploited and shes ceased contact with him. Miss T says that she told Tradewise all this on 
the day she reported the theft.
Whilst the visitor is related to Miss Ts children, hes not related to Miss T. I dont think that 
Tradewise has established that the visitor who took the key and was subsequently 
convicted of aggravated vehicle taking was a member of Miss Ts family. The background 
and history dont support that conclusion. Miss T wasnt biologically related to the visitor, 
had never lived in the same household as him, didnt act as a surrogate parent when he 
was a minor and hadnt seen him for many years until a month or so before the theft.
I dont think that Tradewise has established that the visitor was Miss Ts friend. Shes 
described the circumstances which led to him being in her home when he stole her car key. 
Miss T was endeavouring to protect her children whilst facilitating contact with their half- 
brother. She also mentioned that she was aware that the visitor had experienced difficult 
times and that she wanted him to know he could talk to her, but I dont think that 
establishes a friendship. I dont accept Tradewises assertion that Miss T would have only 
invited a friend into her home. Miss T has provided a reasonable explanation why the 
visitor was in her home which doesnt amount to him being her friend.So, I dont think that Tradewise has established that the exclusion applies in this case. I 
think it acted unfairly in refusing Miss Ts claim. To put matters right, Tradewise should 
deal with Miss Ts claim under the remaining terms of the policy. As Tradewise decided 
that Miss Ts car was a total loss that means that, subject to the remaining terms of the 
policy, it should pay Miss T the market value of the car at the date of the loss, less the 
outstanding finance on the car, the salvage value and the excess due under Miss Ts 
policy. As Miss T has been kept out of the use of that money, Tradewise should also pay 
interest on any sum paid to her.
If Miss T has continued to make the finance payments in relation to the car, Tradewise 
should reimburse her for those sums, from the date of her claim to the date of payment, 
with interest. Miss T should provide Tradewise with evidence of any finance payments that 
she has made.
As Tradewise declined Miss Ts claim, she lost the use of a car. If it had dealt with Miss Ts 
claim fairly and promptly from the outset, she would have been able to find a replacement 
car or have the recovered car repaired properly.
Miss T says that whilst she was without a car  until she arranged for the salvage to be 
returned to her and paid for minimal repairs - she used buses and taxis for two trips a day 
to take her young son to school and home again and paid for buses for her daughter to get 
to and from school. Miss T says that she also used buses and taxis for a small number of 
work- related trips. Miss T says that she didnt keep receipts, as it didnt occur to her that 
Tradewise would decline her claim.
Miss T made her claim on 23 April 2019 and Ive seen that on 5 July 2019, she paid £180 to 
the salvage yard for the return of the car. Thats approaching 11 weeks without a car. Wed 
usually expect an insurer to settle a claim like this within, say, two weeks. So, I think that 
Tradewise should pay Miss T compensation for loss of use of a car for weekdays for nine 
weeks  45 days. Our usual approach in cases like this one is to award £10 a day for loss 
of use. So, I intend to direct Tradewise to pay Miss T £450 for the loss of use of her car.
Miss T says that she could only do minimal work shifts, as she needed her car to do her 
job. Miss T hasnt provided any evidence to support a claim for loss of earnings. And her 
policy doesnt cover business use. So, I dont intend to award anything separately for loss 
of use in relation to Miss Ts use of car in relation to her work.
Miss T has also suffered distress and inconvenience in having her claim declined when it 
should have been dealt with. I think fair compensation for that, in addition to the award for
loss of use, is £200.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss T didnt make any further comments in response to my provisional decision.  Tradewise 
didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said:
It prefers the conclusions of its enquiry agent, which refers to the relationship 
between Miss T and the visitor who took one of her car keys as                            
step-mother/step-son, as that was prepared before it declined Miss Ts claim.
It thinks that Miss T invited the visitor for a meal and a catch-up and, if she didnt trust 
him, it would have been prudent to have met him in a public place. 
It believes that Miss T and the visitor were on friendly terms and that she had 
previously seen herself as his step-mother for a period of 10 years. Miss T wouldnt have invited the visitor into her home if she hadnt considered him a 
friend or step-son.
It didnt agree with the loss of use award as the claim wouldnt have been resolved in 
two weeks, given that the car wasnt released to the salvage agents until 22 May 
2019 and it would have required a police report that was delayed pending 
prosecution. The visitor wasnt convicted until September 2019.
It doesnt agree that it reimburse finance payments Miss T made as the policy 
requires that it pays the value of the car and any settlement straight to the finance 
company. The balance due to the finance company would have been reduced by 
Miss Ts monthly payments, leaving a greater balance due to Miss T.  
Its happy to review any further evidence or to obtain a police report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tradewise says that its happy to obtain a police report, but its had ample opportunity to 
pursue that if it wished to, so Im proceeding on the basis of the evidence I have.
Ive looked again at the evidence in relation to Miss Ts relationship with the visitor who took 
one of her car keys. Tradewise prefers to rely on the conclusions of its enquiry agent. But as 
I said in my provisional decision, those conclusions arent definitive. 
In Miss Ts witness statement, which is appended to the enquiry agents report and which 
Miss T signed before Tradewise declined her claim, Miss T described the visitor who took 
one of her car keys as the half-brother to my children. Thats consistent with what was 
said at the first notification of loss. The enquiry agent says that the visitor was like a step-
child [to Miss T], but those appear to be the enquiry agents words, not Miss Ts.  
Miss T has described the circumstances which led to the visitor being in her house. With the 
benefit of hindsight, Tradewise is right that it would have been prudent to meet in a public 
place, but that doesnt alter the outcome here. 
I think that its possible to have a visitor in ones home who is neither a family member nor a 
friend. Miss T has described how that occurred here. On balance, for the reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision and above, Im not persuaded that Tradewise has shown that the 
visitor who took Miss Ts key was either a member of her family or her friend. So, I dont 
think its fair or reasonable for it to rely on the exclusion. 
Tradewise says that it couldnt have dealt with Miss Ts claim after two weeks as Miss Ts 
car wasnt released to the salvage agents until 22 May 2019, it required a police report and 
the criminal proceedings werent concluded until September 2019. 
I dont think it would have been reasonable for Tradewise to delay settlement of Miss Ts 
claim until criminal proceedings were concluded, but I take its point that it would have to 
wait for the police to release the car and for further information from the police. It appears that the police released Miss Ts car on 20 May 2019, as thats the day 
Tradewise instructed its recovery agent. I think Tradewise could reasonably have dealt with 
the claim within two weeks of that date, so 3 June 2019. That means that Miss Ts loss of 
use claim is for weekdays from 3 June 2019 to 4 July 2019 - 24 days. As I said in my 
provisional decision, our usual approach in cases like this one is to award £10 a day for 
loss of use. So, I intend to direct Tradewise to pay Miss T £240 for the loss of use of her 
car.
If Tradewise had dealt with Miss Ts claim promptly and fairly on, say, 3 June 2019, she 
wouldnt have continued to make the finance repayments in relation to her car. So, shes 
been kept out of the use of any repayments she made, and I think that Tradewise should 
compensate Miss T for that by paying her simple interest on the amount of any repayments 
she made from 3 June 2019 to the date of settlement. 
Tradewise is right to say that it shouldnt have to reimburse any finance payments Miss T 
made as, in accordance with the policy terms, its settlement of the claim would first repay 
any finance on the car, so any repayments Miss T made would reduce the balance 
outstanding. So, Miss T would have the benefit of any finance payments she made in any 
event. 
Ive noted and considered whats been said, but I remain of the view that Tradewise hasnt 
established that its fair and reasonable for it to rely on the exclusion set out above in order 
to decline Miss Ts claim. So, it should take the steps Ive set out below to put things right.  
Putting things right
I now direct Tradewise Insurance Company Limited to:
Deal with Miss Ts claim under the remaining terms of her policy.
Pay interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date Miss T 
made the claim to the date it makes the payment.
On production of evidence of finance payments, pay interest at the simple rate of 8% 
per year on the finance payments Miss T made from 3 June 2019 to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Miss T £240 for loss of use.
Pay Miss T £200 in relation to distress and inconvenience.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tradewise Insurance Company Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Tradewise must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint. I 
now require Tradewise Insurance Company Limited to take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman