DRN-3211842
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid her travel insurance
claim.
Any reference to URV also includes its agents. 
What happened
On 3 March 2020, Mrs J purchased a single travel insurance policy with URV to cover a trip
abroad departing in April 2020.
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This advice remained in place until after the
departure date of her trip. As a result, Mrs Js flights were cancelled and she therefore had to
cancel her accommodation. The accommodation provider refused to provide a refund, so
Mrs J made a claim to URV.
URV said that it couldnt consider the claim as there was no cover under the policy for
cancellation due to changes in the FCDO advice. Unhappy with this response, Mrs J
complained to URV and then brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter and said he didnt think the claim was covered under
the policy terms and conditions. But he found that URV should still assess Mrs Js claim
under the cancellation section regardless.
Mrs J accepted the investigators opinion but URV disagreed. It said that the policy terms are
clear in stating that there is no cover for this circumstance. And URV stated that there were
other policies on the market that could cover this type of event, but Mrs J had chosen to
purchase this level of cover which doesnt provide this protection. It also said that the
exclusion relating to FCDO advice was written prior to the pandemic and so it didnt agree
this should be used as a basis for cover.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 29 November 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
Our investigator identified, and set out, relevant industry rules and guidance. I agree those
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. Ive
also considered the relevant law (including the unfair terms provision in the Consumer Right
Act 2015).
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Mrs J held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. On page
18 of the policy, under the heading Section A1  Cancellation charges, the policy says that
URV will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled for any of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result of 
pregnancy of:
a) You
b) Any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) Any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) Your close relative
e) Your close business associate
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined called as a witness in a court of law or for jury service attendance
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with (which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment 
legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone 
would be made redundant
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the armed forces, territorial army, police, fire, nursing or ambulance 
services or employees of a government department and have your/their authorised 
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that cancellation 
could not reasonably have been expected at the time when your purchased this 
insurance or at the time of booking any trip. 
5. The police or other authorities requesting you to stay or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
On page 12, the policy terms say, under the heading What is not covered  applicable to all
sections of the policy:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the travel advice unit of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a 
country to/from which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but 
essential travel.
When reviewing the policy terms, Ive noted that there is also the following exclusion listed
under the cancellation section:
What is not covered
3. Any claims arising directly or indirectly from: 
d) your fear of an epidemic, pandemic, infection or allergic reaction.
Whilst Covid-19 had been declared a pandemic by that time, I think it is important to point
out that the reason Mrs J cancelled her trip was specifically the FCDO advice changing to
advise against all but essential travel abroad. So, Im not persuaded that this specific
exclusion applies to Mrs Js claim.
In addition to the policy terms, URV provided Mrs J with an Insurance Product Information
Document (IPID) designed to provide a summary of the cover.
On page one of the IPID it includes a section titled Are there any restrictions on cover? and
within this section it states:Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your
destination
Was the claim declined unfairly?
The policy terms detailed above show that cancelling a trip as a result of FCDO advice isnt
one of the specific, listed events for which cancellation cover is provided. And having
reviewed the remaining terms and conditions, I dont think there is another section of the
policy which would provide cover for the circumstances Mrs J found herself in. So, I agree on
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mrs Js claim simply isnt covered by the terms of her
contract.
But I must also consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of
the case, taking into account the industry rules Ive already mentioned and the relevant law.
Having thought about this case very carefully, I dont think that applying the strict
interpretation of the policy terms produces a fair and reasonable outcome here. Ill explain
why.
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean, if Mrs J had travelled abroad as intended (if it
was possible for her to do so), she wouldnt have been following FCDO advice. So, she is
unlikely to have been covered by the policy terms and conditions at all. But, under the terms
and conditions of the policy, cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO guidance also
isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mrs J within the
policy documents that were provided to her.
URV has said Mrs J had 14 days to review the policy when she purchased it and cancel if
this wasnt the cover she wanted. As she didnt cancel, it says she chose to purchase the
policy without this protection. However, Im not persuaded this is the case. Mrs J would have
needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that the situation
she found herself in wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this information was brought to
her attention in a clear, prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect
of the policy terms were made sufficiently clear to her.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mrs J and URV. Im
of the opinion that, if Mrs J had realised there was no cover under the policy if she needed to
cancel her trip because FCDO guidance changed, its likely shed have been able to find an
alternative policy elsewhere which did provide the cover she needed.
URV has commented that the FCDO exclusion was already in place prior to the pandemic
becoming a known entity and so it doesnt think this should be used as a basis for cover. But
I dont agree this makes a difference. Rather the pandemic has merely highlighted that the
exclusion relating to changes in FCDO advice has not been detailed in a clear and
prominent manner.
So, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mrs Js claim as
covered under the cancellation section of her policy. URV should assess the claim under the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Both parties have responded to confirm receipt of my provisional decision but neither has 
supplied any additional comments or evidence for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs J or URV have provided further comments or evidence for me to consider, I 
see no reason to alter the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
URV needs to treat Mrs Js claim as covered under the cancellation section of her policy. It 
should assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I uphold this complaint.
Union Reiseversicherung AG needs to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman