DRN-1479608
The complaint
Mr S has complained because Assurant General Insurance Limited ("Assurant") has refused 
to pay a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy
What happened
On 24 August Mr S said he lost his mobile phone whilst cycling in a UK town. He says he 
told Assurant the following day as he wished to make claim on his policy. Assurant asked 
 Mr S to provide proof of usage and Mr S provided it. Assurant received the proof of usage 
on 10 September 2019 and began investigating the claim.
On 13 September during a telephone conversation with Mr S Assurant said Mr S confirmed 
he had a pin code for his mobile phone and that he only used his account for calling his 
family and not for social media. 
Assurant said a foreign sim card was used in the device on 10 September 2019 and on 11 
September 2019 the phone was restored back to its factory settings. Assurant confirmed that 
in order for this to happen a pin code would have needed to be entered along with the 
account ID to remove the device from the associated account. Assurant also confirmed that 
an application was active on Mr S account so Mr S must have connected his device to an 
account and set up an ID and password. Because of this, Assurant declined the claim as it 
said, Mr S hadnt acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
On 19 September 2019 Mr S contacted Assurant to discuss the claim again. During this call 
Assurant has said that Mr S said the device was never set up and attached to an account. 
Assurant asked Mr S how applications were downloaded onto the device and Mr S 
confirmed he had used other software to do this, Assurant asked Mr S to send confirmation 
that this was done on his device and Assurant says Mr S then confirmed he didnt have any 
accounts set up on this device. 
Mr S feels his claim was declined as he wasnt English. But Assurant said this was not the 
case, the claim was being declined, because the phone was restored and used in another 
country, which Mr S had confirmed hed recently travelled to,  after he had said he had lost it, 
Mr S didnt agree. He said English is not his first language and Assurant hadnt taken this 
into consideration and Assurant hadnt understood what Mr S had said during the 
conversation. He said he did not have a pin code for the phone, but he did have a pin code 
for the sim card. So, when you remove the sim card from the device, the phone does not 
have a passcode. 
Secondly, Mr S says he never said the device wasnt associated with an account but that he 
was unaware if it was. Mr S went on to say that he had explained his partner had set the 
phone up for him as he didnt know how to do it. After checking with his partner he says he 
called Assurant back and said that his partner didnt link the device to the account. 
Mr S has also said that after speaking to the phone manufacturer it said he can use the 
phone without linking to an account, but this would only work for phone calls and text messages. Lastly, he said he felt when he was asked if he was out of the country, and he 
confirmed he was, it was at this point Assurant took the decision to decline his claim.
As he remined unhappy he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
the claim but didnt recommend it be upheld. To summarise he said, in cases such as these, 
our service looks to see if Assurant had applied the terms and conditions fairly. Having done 
so he felt Assurant had presented enough evidence to fairly rely on the term it had, in order 
to decline the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has concerns about the validity of Mr S claim. Ive taken into account everything 
both Assurant and Mr S have said and Ive weighed up the supporting information provided 
by both parties. Overall, based on everything Ive seen, I agree with the investigators 
findings, for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
I have reviewed the policy terms and it says:
 It is important when submitting a claim you must take reasonable care to answer all 
questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity 
of your policy or the fulfilment of your claim. If false or inaccurate information is provided and 
fraud is identified then we may:
Reject the claim
This is the policy term Assurant has relied on in order to decline Mr S claim. So I have gone 
on to consider whether there is enough evidence for Assurant to fairly and reasonably rely 
on this term in order to decline Mr S claim.
There were two telephone calls (after the claim was logged) which took place between Mr S 
and Assurant. The first call took place on 13 September 2019. During this call Mr S was told 
the claim was likely to be declined. The second call took place on 19 September 2019. 
During this call Mr S clarified a few points.
I have listened to both calls which took place and I have taken into consideration the point 
Mr S had raised about English not being his first language. But even taking that into 
consideration, I am satisfied that during the call dated 13 September 2019 Mr S made it 
clear his phone was password protected. I understand that at a later date (during the call 
dated 19 September 2019) Mr S said he was confused, and what he meant to say was that 
the sim was protected not the phone itself. So Ive gone on to consider other evidence 
provided. 
During the call Mr S had confirmed he had been in another country from either 28 or 29 
August 2019 until 13 September 2019. This was shortly after his phone was lost. I have seen 
evidence provided by Assurant that Mr S device was unblocked and used on            10 
September 2019 with a different sim card which was associated with a network from that 
other country. It also shows the  phone was being utilised in that country. 
During the call which took place on 13 September 2019 Mr S said he was unsure whether 
his device was connected to an account as his partner had set his phone up for him. But in the later call he explained his partner had skipped all those steps, so his phone was not 
linked to an account. So, the claims handler asked Mr S how he had downloaded 
applications to his phone without that specific account being set up. Mr S said you could do it 
using another method, when the claims handler asked for evidence of this, Mr S then 
confirmed no accounts were associated with the phone and when his partner set the phone 
up, she skipped all the steps. 
Assurant has provided evidence that one application was downloaded and this application 
was used to trace the phone. In order to use this application, it must be linked to an account. 
I have seen evidence to suggest the application is still active and therefore, connected to an 
account. So on balance I think it is likely that Mr S or his partner did connect his device to an 
associated account, which would have had an account ID and password.
I have also seen evidence to show that the phone was restored back to factory settings on 
11 September 2019. In order for this to happen, someone would need to have access to the 
device pin code (if there was one set up on the phone) and the ID and password which is 
used for the associated account. And this was completed after Mr S says the phone was 
lost. 
So, with that in mind, I am satisfied that Assurant has fully investigated the claim and 
provided evidence to demonstrate that on balance, there is some inaccuracies with the 
information Mr S has provided. It is clear in the terms and conditions that Mr S must take 
reasonable care to provide accurate information and failure to do so could result in a claim 
being declined. So based on this and the evidence Assurant has provided, I am satisfied 
Assurant has acted fairly and inline with the terms and conditions of the account. And I am 
satisfied Assurant explained clearly to Mr S how it reached it decision to decline his claim 
and the evidence it has gathered and relied upon. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman