DRN-2285750
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Barclaycard made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say that because I say this because to get the cover Mrs H had to 
tick a box for it on the application form. The copy of the application form that Barclaycard 
has provided shows that the box is ticked for the PPI and Mrs H signed the form which 
might suggest her agreement to the forms contents. And Mrs H could have left the box 
blank. 
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs H enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs H  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  she was employed 
and had no pre-existing medical conditions. The cover would have paid out in the 
absence of any company sick pay. And Mrs H told us she had no other means she could 
rely on in the event she was off work through ill health for a long time, or if she lost her 
job. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs H 
would have declined the cover had Barclaycard done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclaycard should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Barclaycard doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclaycard didnt need to disclose the commission it received, 
so Barclaycard doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, the credit agreement doesnt fit into these dates. So, I dont think Barclaycard have 
to refund any of the commission paid on the PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman