DRN-2227083
The complaint
 Ms Ds complaint is about the amount of compensation AXA France IARD has offered her 
for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms D took out her store card in November 1989. AXA 
In 2019, Ms D complained to AXA that shed been mis-sold the PPI. AXA accepted that the 
PPI had been mis-sold and offered her £300 in compensation for the mis-sale. But Ms D 
wasnt satisfied that AXA had provided enough information for her to decide whether the 
offer was fair and that she should accept it. So she asked AXA to provide further information 
to support its offer. Ms D says she didnt receive this information, so she complained to this 
service about this.
Our adjudicator requested further information from AXA on the basis of its offer. This showed 
that AXA only had information showing that the PPI was taken out in November 1989 and 
that the last payment for PPI was made in September 1993. So AXAs offer of £300 was 
based on the average redress for accounts of a similar age and where the last premium 
charged was of a similar amount.
Our adjudicator thought that, on the basis of the very limited information still available to 
AXA, the way it had calculated the compensation offer of £300 to Ms D was how he would 
have expected it to do so and was, therefore, fair. However, he said that he thought AXA 
should also pay Ms D £30 for any trouble and upset that AXA had caused her by 
unnecessary delays in dealing with this complaint. 
Ms D confirmed that she agreed with the adjudicators assessment of her complaint. 
AXA said it didnt think it needed to pay Ms D an additional £30 for trouble and upset. It said 
that the delay had been caused by this service not initially separating this complaint from 
another store card complaint, brought by Ms D at the same time, in the way it would expect 
us to do. AXA also said this service didnt initially provide it with evidence of the customers 
consent to bringing the complaint. So AXA didnt think it had done anything wrong in the way 
it had handled the complaint.
As AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As AXA has already agreed to uphold Ms Ds complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in 
this decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. Im only looking at whether 
the offer AXA has made is fair.
Ive reviewed the information which AXA has provided to support the offer of £300 it made to 
Ms D to settle her complaint. And Im satisfied that, given the very limited information still 
available, AXA has calculated this offer in the way that I would have expected and that it is 
fair. 
Ive then looked at how AXA dealt with this complaint. And from what Ive seen, I think that 
AXA did cause an unnecessary delay in resolving this complaint by its repeated failure to 
respond to emails sent to it by our adjudicator. So I think that AXA should compensate Ms D 
for any trouble and upset that shes been caused as a result of this by paying her an 
additional £30. 
Ive thought carefully about the reasons why AXA thinks that such a payment for trouble and 
upset to Ms D isnt justified. But this hasnt changed my mind. I still think that AXA should 
have responded in a timely manner to the emails it was sent by our adjudicator and that, if it 
had done so, Ms Ds complaint could have been resolved much sooner than it was.
Putting things right
If AXA France IARD hasnt already done so, it should now pay Ms D the £300 it has offered 
Ms D. It should also pay Ms D an additional £30 for any trouble and upset it may have 
caused her by the way it has handled this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding this complaint against AXA France IARD and it 
should now do what Ive instructed in the section Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman