DRN-1779891
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly handled a claim he made under 
his car insurance.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr R was driving and hit a deer. He contacted UKI and the car was taken for 
repairs then returned to him.
Mr R says following the accident UKI provided poor customer service and returned his car to 
him in an unroadworthy state. He said the problems related to the cars exhaust and shock 
absorbers with the former leading to a failed MOT. And he said UKI didn't supply him with a 
suitable hire car under his policy, saying it was too small given his height. Mr R says UKIs 
actions triggered an existing mental health condition that affects his moods.
In response to Mr Rs complaint UKI said it hadn't repaired Mr Rs vehicle as quickly as itd 
have liked, so it awarded him £70 for the delay. Then shortly after it wrote to him again. It 
said the vehicle provided was in line with the Guaranteed Hire car policy terms. And it 
said the garage and its own engineer had agreed the car failed its MOT due to an issue 
unrelated to the accident. So it said it wouldn't do anything further.
Following some further back and forth UKI wrote to Mr R again to apologise for a call in 
which Mr R had asked to speak to a manager but had been refused, and said it hadn't 
notified him of any issues with his exhaust when returning the car to him. So to make up for 
its mistakes it paid an additional £75. Given Mr Rs concerns, UKI also arranged to pay the 
difference between a class A hire, and class B hire (at £6 per day) totalling £216 for the time 
he had the car to cover the cost of the larger car he took.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. She said Mr R hadn't provided sufficient evidence to persuade her that any 
damage to his cars exhaust or shock absorbers were related to the accident in question. 
And the investigator said UKI had made a fair offer in relation to his hire car.
But she found the car hire company itself (Company A), that Mr R used under the policy, 
hadn't provided the level of service it shouldve. And as it was acting as UKIs agent, UKI 
was responsible for the service it provided to Mr R. The investigator also said UKI couldve 
handled Mr Rs queries in a more direct manner, that it gave him incorrect information about 
call backs, it couldve been more sympathetic to his situation, and couldve managed his 
expectations better than it did. 
Given Mr Rs mental health issues, she felt the impact of UKIs mistakes had made this claim 
a more difficult experience than it should've been for him. So she recommended UKI award 
an additional £225 (alongside the compensation already offered).
Mr R disagreed and said UKIs behaviour had severely impacted his mental health and day 
to day life, and the compensation suggested wasn't enough to account for this. UKI also 
disagreed, and highlighted that its offer of £216 was outside of the terms of the policy so should be considered as part of the compensation offered. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Im upholding this complaint. And Im doing so for the same reason our 
investigator has outlined previously. Ill explain why.
repairs
Mr Rs policy covers him in the event of certain insured perils, in this case damage to his car 
following an impact with a deer. UKIs engineer and the initial garage that reviewed Mr Rs 
vehicle and found damage to the vehicles exhaust wasn't related to the accident itself. The 
engineer said This is not a safety issue in my opinion and is also clearly not related to the 
claim or repairs. I find these comments persuasive and clear.
Ive considered Mr Rs comments but ultimately these havent been supported by an expert 
opinion despite an opportunity to provide one. 
Mr R has also highlighted a problem with his shock absorbers that he has raised sometime 
after repairs were completed. Again, Ive been given no expert opinion or evidence to 
support that this issue relates to the claim itself. So on balance I'm persuaded UKI carried 
out the appropriate works related to the claim and met its obligations under the policy.
hire car
Mr R complained about the wording of UKIs policy and accuracy of the description small 
hatchback, which UKIs policy says it will offer when a car is being fixed by one of its 
repairers. I cant comment on the policy wording itself, and its not for me to decide how UKI 
should phrase its policies. But Ive looked into how its handed this claim.
Mr R has explained that he was too tall to drive the car he was offered. As a result following 
a dispute with UKIs agent (Company A), he paid extra to drive a slightly larger car. UKI 
since told Mr R in a phone call if hed raised concerns about the vehicle at the time, it 
couldve offered him a different car (in keeping with the one he then took). 
From what Ive heard in the telephone calls provided, and what Mr R has told our service, 
Im satisfied he raised this with Company A, particularly given he did upgrade the car at his 
own cost. And it seems that as UKIs representative, Company A couldve done more to 
communicate these concerns to it given it's since said theres scope and discretion that 
allows it to accommodate these types of circumstances.
Subsequently UKI paid the difference in costs, and Im satisfied this is fair as it puts Mr R 
back in the position he wouldve been in, had UKI known of Mr R's concerns at the time. But 
I think this situation itself still carried an increased level of stress for Mr R  particularly given 
his mental health conditions that he's described.
customer service
Across this claim Mr R had a number of calls with UKI. Given our investigator has previously 
discussed these I will not go over each of them in detail. But in summary from the calls Ive 
heard Mr R is clearly distressed and frustrated by the lack of updates he had across this claim. Simple mistakes of not returning calls at times they were promised led to periods of 
worry for him, which hes described himself within follow up calls. Mr R also highlighted to 
UKI that these events were exacerbating his mental health condition.
I think Mr R said enough to UKI to put it on notice it should have realised the situation was 
having a significant impact on him, and done everything it could to avoid making things 
worse. But Im not persuaded it did in this instance.
So looking at the impact of these mistakes on Mr R, Im satisfied the compensation UKI has 
offered isn't sufficient. And I agree with our investigator that a compensation sum of £350 (in 
addition to the separate £216 payment) is a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and directing U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £350 in 
compensation. It can deduct any payments of compensation it has already paid from this 
sum, not including the payment of £216 related to hire car costs.
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman