DRN-3429912
The complaint
Mr L has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag misdiagnosed a fault 
with his car when he sought assistance under his breakdown cover policy.
What happened
Mr Ls car wouldnt start and so he called UKI for assistance. The recovery agent couldnt 
start Mr Ls car and suggested there was a fault with the alternator. Another agent attended 
and also suggested it was a fault with the alternator. 
Mr L challenged this as he said he had the alternator changed a few years before. But he 
said that as an agent on a call also said it was likely to be an issue with the alternator, Mr L 
paid for a mobile mechanic to attend and replace the alternator.
Mr L said his car worked great for a while  but later in the same month the original issue 
returned. Mr L said it was then diagnosed by another mechanic that the issue was either with 
the new alternator, or a fault with the electrics connecting to the alternator.  As the alternator 
had recently been changed, the mechanic believed it more likely to be the latter. 
Mr M complained to UKI. He was unhappy that his car had been left unattended with the key 
in the wheel arch overnight. Mr L wanted UKI to reimburse him for the costs of replacing the 
alternator. 
UKI didnt agree. It said it wasnt responsible for diagnosing a fault as any roadside 
diagnosis is preliminary. It said it was for Mr L to ensure a mechanic carried out a diagnostic 
check to identify the fault  as the roadside recovery agent couldnt fix the issue. 
Mr L told the Investigator the mobile mechanic gave him the option to carry out a diagnostic 
check before replacing the alternator for an extra charge. But Mr L declined as he said three 
different people at UKI had told him the alternator was the issue. 
Our Investigator thought UKI had acted correctly and in line with the policy. She agreed that 
Mr L should feel upset that his car had been left unattended. But as no harm had been done, 
she didnt recommend an award of compensation. 
Mr L didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the further information Mr L provided on 1 May 2022: being his comments on 
the Investigators view, his updated statement and a statement from his flatmate. Having 
reviewed all of the information provided, I dont intend to uphold the complaint and Ill explain 
why. 
Mr Ls policy with UKI says that in the event of a breakdown, UKI will come out to help. If an 
agent cannot repair Mr Ls car to get him back on the road, it can arrange for his car to be 
towed to a garage. It also says:
if you use a repair garage for anything, theyll be your agent, acting on your behalf. 
Were not responsible for anything they do, or any problems they cause.
Mr L decided to arrange for a mobile mechanic to attend as he said hed already made 
enquiries with local garages before contacting UKI and he said none were available. 
I understand Mr L decided not to ask the mobile mechanic to carry out a diagnostic check 
before replacing the alternator. He told UKI that there would have been an additional cost. 
He says his decision not to have a diagnostic check was due to the information he received 
from UKIs agents. 
I appreciate there would have been some discussion around what the issue could be - as 
some checks would inevitably be carried out in order for the recovery agent(s) to be able to 
determine if they could help. But in line with the policy, I think UKI provided assistance in 
trying to fix Mr Ls car - or offering to recover it to the nearest garage. 
I can understand why Mr L was upset after the second call out when he discovered his car 
had been left unattended overnight with the keys left in the wheel arch. Fortunately there 
was no consequence to this  and this service can only consider what happened rather than 
what might have happened. 
So  taking everything into account - overall I dont think UKI needs to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman