DRN-2529836
The complaint
Mrs H complains that when she called on Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under her 
home emergency insurance policy, it failed to repair her central heating boiler for a period of 
12 weeks over winter so that she had to buy a new boiler.
What happened
Mrs Hs boiler stopped working on 21 December 2019. She called on IPA under her home 
emergency policy. It seems IPAs engineers attended several times without being able to 
repair the boiler. Eventually they said a replacement valve was required.
From mid-January onwards Mrs H chased IPA to see if the valve had arrived. IPA did keep 
chasing its suppliers. It was continually told it was on order and would be supplied in ten 
days time. During this time Mrs H was without central heating. Eventually in early March   
Mrs H gave up and had a new boiler fitted.
She complained to IPA about its poor service. IPA paid her a total of £500 as compensation. 
Mrs H didnt think this was sufficient for the long period she was without heating and the 
stress she suffered, and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mrs H had said she 
wanted IPA to change its procedures so that this didnt happen to anyone else. However, the 
investigator said that it wasnt the role of this service to tell IPA how it should run its business 
 that was for its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The investigator acknowledged that delays had occurred, and errors had been made. 
However, she thought the £500 compensation IPA had paid Mrs H was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances, and in line with what we would have recommended.
Mrs H asked for her complaint to be reviewed. So it has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been able to read IPAs file notes on this claim. Its clear that there were a number of 
visits, and some delay, before IPAs engineers identified, and ordered, the valve that needed 
to be replaced. By 15 January 2020, it seems IPA was told the part would be available to be 
fitted by 27 January, and passed this information to Mrs H.
Mrs H said she would try to source it herself sooner. She thought she had done so, but when 
IPA checked with the supplier it had been wrongly recorded in its stock records.
At the end of January 2020 the part still hadnt arrived. IPA was trying all its sources without 
success. According to its notes it was updating Mrs H and telling her she should replace her 
boiler, but Mrs H wanted to wait for the part.
The notes record this continued throughout February, with IPA continually trying to source 
the part from different sources, being told it was still on order, updating Mrs H regularly, and 
with her saying she would wait a little longer for the part. Eventually on 9 March 2020 she 
told IPA that she wouldnt wait any longer.
I understand that Mrs H was frustrated at the inability of IPA to repair her boiler. Its initial 
service seems to have been poor. But from the middle of January onwards it seems it was 
the absence of the necessary part that meant the boiler couldnt be repaired, and it seems 
this was beyond IPAs control.
IPAs policy terms and conditions do point out that while it will do all it reasonably can to find 
and install parts from its approved suppliers, there may be times when replacement parts are 
delayed because of circumstances beyond its control.
I think this was the case from mid-January onwards. I think by then IPA was keeping Mrs H 
informed of the position, and suggesting she considered replacing her boiler. 
Understandably, Mrs H wanted to avoid having to pay for a new boiler if possible.
All in all, I think the compensation IPA has paid Mrs H was fair in the circumstances and 
dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman