DRN-4215420
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund the money she lost as a result of 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service through a representative. For ease I will refer 
solely to Miss M in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all
again here, Ill summarise the key points.
Miss M fell victim to an investment scam and made a number of online faster payments 
totalling £308,433 to an account in her name at Payward Ltd between 8 March and 5 
October 2022. She received two credits back into her HSBC account on 24 May and 14 
June 2022 so her total losses were £303,757.70. 
Miss M believed she was sending money, via her crypto account, to a company she had 
found and researched online in order to invest in commodities. When Miss M tried to 
withdraw her funds she was told by the investment company that she needed to first send 
money to cover taxes. She took out two loans from HSBC to cover these costs. When the 
scammer then told Miss M she needed to make one further payment as it had misallocated 
her final tax payment, she realised she had been scammed. 
She reported this to HSBC on 14 October 2022. It rejected Miss Ms claim for a refund 
saying she had made the payments to an account in her own name.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He thought HSBC should have 
questioned Miss M further  but wasnt persuaded this would have prevented the scam. He 
also found that HSBC was not irresponsible to provide either loan to Miss M.
Miss M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she said given the 
value of the payments HSBC should have done more. It should have enacted the banking 
protocol. These payments completely depreciated her balance to new low levels. Scam 
education ought to have been given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I am focusing on the key points here  as 
our rules allow - I have read and considered everything thats been submitted. Having done 
so, I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that although Miss M was tricked, she authorised these payments. At the 
time she made them she believed she was transferring money to invest in gold ultimately. 
And the starting position is that banks have an obligation to follow instructions given by their 
customers.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Miss M from
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should
reasonably have a closer look at the circumstances surrounding certain transactions. For 
example, if they are particularly out of character. To note, as the payments here were to an 
account in Miss Ms name the principles of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code do not apply in this case.
It isnt in dispute that the payments - from the first of £24,000 and then other subsequent 
transfers - were unusual and they were identified as such. They triggered the banks fraud 
prevention system and were held until direct contact was made with Miss M for further 
enquiries. 
This means what I need to decide is whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with its interventions. And if not, whether that failure contributed to the loss.
 
HSBC intervened when Miss M tried to make the first payment. It spoke to her and asked 
about the purpose of the payment; how long her Payward account had been set up; how she 
had received those account details and if there had been a full or partial match when she 
input them; whether anyone had given her a cover story or told her to mislead the bank; and 
if there was any crypto currency link. It explained it was seeing a lot of scams involving 
payments to third parties and it read a scam warning to Miss M. 
I would have expected HSBCs questioning to have gone further as Miss M was reluctant to 
give detailed or precise responses. I think it should have asked with more rigour about the 
purpose of the payment as Miss M was not specific, instead saying repeatedly it was 
personal. Similarly, she said somewhat opaquely her Payward account had been opened 
fairly recently, but long enough.  
However, what I have to consider is whether further questioning would most likely have 
uncovered the scam. I would expect HSBC to ask proportionate questions - but not to 
interrogate Miss M. Even though she was transferring funds to a crypto account in her own 
name, I still think that HSBC ought to have intervened further given the significant risk of 
fraud associated with cryptocurrency investments at the time.
However, on balance, Im not persuaded a more effective intervention could have prevented 
the scam. I dont think any of the typical characteristics of investment scams at the time 
would have been identified. And I think Miss M would have reassured HSBC that she was 
not at risk of financial harm. I say this for a number of reasons, some of which are based on 
information Miss M provided to HSBC on later calls:
Miss M said she had been recommended the investment by a friend she had known 
for 30 years  so it had not initiated through a cold call;
Miss M had not been promised a specific rate of return that was too good to be true, 
rather she had been told it would depend on the underlying performance of the 
commodity; 
she confirmed she had checked the FCA registration of the investment company (the 
FCA later published a warning but this was not in place at the start of the scam);
this was a cloned investment scam so good reviews of the real company were 
available online;
the scammer had completed full KYC (know your customer) checks before 
progressing adding credibility;there is no evidence she was pressured to act now, act urgently;
Miss M had not been given a cover story to use if the bank intervened;
Miss M had significant funds available to invest following an inheritance so it was 
wholly plausible she would be looking at different investments  indeed during the life 
of the scam she spoke to one of HSBCs wealth managers and explained as this was 
a recent investment she did not need/want to review it yet;
whilst the payments reduced her balance  it was previously unusually high for a 
current account and the pattern of payments did not rapidly drain her account; and 
finally
she had documentation to support her investment and each supposed deposit into it.
The banking protocol which Miss M referred to is not relevant here as those are provisions 
for consumers making branch payments. That said, regardless of the payment method, 
similar principles apply regarding what type of questioning should be employed when a 
payment(s) is identified as suspicious. And I have explained above why Im not persuaded 
such questioning would have uncovered the scam here. Similarly, I therefore do not think 
HSBC would have had reason to involve the police.
I have then considered if HSBC did what it ought to try to recover Miss Ms money once she 
reported the scam. Unfortunately the money had already been moved on from the receiving 
account by the time she contacted HSBC, so any recovery attempt would have been 
unsuccessful. 
I have also looked at the lending decisions HSBC made during the scam when Miss M 
needed further funds, purportedly to pay the taxes that would release her profits. I note 
HSBC was not aware that this was the reason for her borrowing and that is an important 
consideration in my findings. HSBC completed affordability assessments and credit checks 
that I find were proportionate. It has shared the results of these checks and I think it made 
fair lending decisions based on the data it gathered. 
This means I am not instructing HSBC to refund any money to Miss M. This is a difficult 
decision to make, Im sorry Miss M lost a considerable amount of money which was very 
distressing for her. I can understand why she would like to be compensated for her losses. 
And I do accept Miss M has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only consider 
whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible 
for what happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find HSBC can fairly be held 
liable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman