DRN-3861875
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hadnt updated the charge for his buy to let 
mortgage on his deeds, when that mortgage transferred from another lender. And when he 
alerted it to the problem, it repeatedly failed to put things right.
What happened
Mr H owns a leasehold property, which he has rented out. At the time of his complaint to our 
service, he had a buy to let (BTL) mortgage with Barclays. That mortgage was initially 
taken out with a different lender, then sold to Barclays as part of a bulk transfer of that old 
lenders mortgage book.
Mr H was thinking of selling his property. It had a shorter period left on the leasehold, so Mr
H negotiated the purchase of a lease extension with the freeholder. He said in January 2021,
his solicitor approached Barclays to get its consent to the lease extension. And at that point,
his solicitor noticed that the charge registered on the title still included a reference to the old
lender. That needed to be removed.
Mr H said all the letters hed received from Barclays at the time that it took over his mortgage
said it would take care of everything, and he wouldnt need to do anything. So this change to
his title deeds should really have been completed some time ago. But he assumed Barclays
would sort this out promptly once he alerted it to the problem.
Mr H said that unfortunately, Barclays hadnt done that. It just hadnt seemed able to sort this
out, so Mr H said he was now many months further on, with no progress.
Mr H said this had cost him a considerable amount of money. His fixed rate mortgage deal
had ended, and hed stayed on Barclays Standard Variable Rate (SVR) rather than set up
a new fixed term deal, because he didnt want to further muddy the waters. Hed been
paying a solicitor to write back and forth to Barclays. Hed now had to let the property out
again for another year, rather than sell it, which might end up impacting how much he would
eventually realise from the property.
Mr H said Barclays hadnt even replied to his complaint. So he wanted us to look into things.
He wanted someone at Barclays to be put in charge of sorting this out. And he wanted
compensation for the additional expenditure hed incurred because of the delays Barclays
had caused. He also wanted Barclays to apologise.
Although Mr H apparently hadnt received this letter, Barclays said it had responded to Mr
Hs complaint. It said the title to Mr Hs property included reference to the old lender, and this
hadnt been changed when the mortgage moved to Barclays. But Barclays said the title
should have been amended by Mr Hs solicitor when he took out his current mortgage with it.
Barclays said this was the fault of Mr Hs previous solicitors, so it wasnt responsible for what
had gone wrong. But it had worked within a timely manner to release the documents
requested so the amendment of the title could take place and to give consent for Mr Hs
lease extension.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator thought that only a small part of this complaint should be upheld. He thought
it was the responsibility of the previous lender to remove its old charge. He didnt think this
was Barclays fault. And our investigator said Barclays had showed us it had replied to Mr
Hs complaint, made in August 2021, within the eight week deadline it has for a response. 
Our investigator understood that Mr H hadnt received that, but he said that wouldnt be
Barclays fault. It was Barclays fault that it hadnt responded within a shorter timescale which
it gave to Mr H, and our investigator said Barclays should pay Mr H £100 to make up for that.
Barclays agreed. But Mr H didnt. He said that for a mortgage transfer like this one, it would
be up to Barclays to sort out the title. And he said although Barclays had written to him to
say it wasnt its responsibility to sort this out, it also continued to try to resolve this with the
Land Registry. Mr H said if this was something he could do himself, he would already have
done it.
Mr H said he didnt really believe Barclays had written to him on the date on its letter. He
said that on the same date Barclays claimed to have issued their final response, it also sent
him a letter stating it was still processing his complaint.
Mr H said he was sending us some of the information he and his solicitor had been pulling
together for a possible legal case (although he was clear he wanted our service to reach a
decision first). He wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was then
passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
Firstly, Id like to deal with one small point from our investigators view. He thought 
Barclays had promised to provide Mr H with a reply to his complaint no later than 10 
September. But I dont think it did. It promised to revert to him by that date. And on that 
date, it wrote to say it was still looking into things for him. So I dont think that Barclays 
unreasonably raised Mr Hs expectations about when he would receive a full response 
to his complaint. I dont think it has to pay compensation because of that.
I know Mr H doesnt believe that Barclays did reply on the date of its letter, because it 
also wrote to him on that date to say it was still looking into things. But I can see on 
Barclays internal complaint records that both of these letters  the automated response 
saying Barclays hadnt been able to reply yet, and its actual complaint response letter  
were sent on the same day. So I do think Barclays reply was sent.
But that doesnt mean I think this complaint should be dismissed. Ive also reached a 
different conclusion to our investigator on whats gone wrong with the charge recorded 
against Mr Hs property. 
I note that Mr Hs mortgage wasnt transferred from the old lender to Barclays because 
of anything he did. It was a bulk transfer of his old lenders mortgage book. So I dont 
think Mr H or any solicitor working for him, was responsible for having updated the 
charges on the title of Mr Hs property at this time. Indeed, there was no solicitor working 
for Mr H at the time of this transfer  he wasnt involved in the transfer at all.
I think Barclays ought to have amended the charge on Mr Hs title. And given that this 
transfer appears to have been planned since late 2012, and achieved sometime in 2014, I think the title should have been amended well before Mr H planned to extend his 
lease in 2021.
Barclays didnt do that before Mr H approached it, and it doesnt appear to have been 
able to resolve this issue afterwards either. Mr H has shown us an email from the Land 
Registry which appears to say Barclays efforts to amend the charge repeatedly failed 
because it just wasnt filling in the relevant form in full. So I think its also Barclays fault 
that this wasnt resolved promptly, after Mr H made it aware of the problem.
Mr H has told us that since this complaint was registered, he has paid off his mortgage. 
He said he hadnt been planning to do this, but felt it was the only practicable way of 
dealing with the problem of an incorrect charge on his property title  to pay off the 
mortgage and get it removed altogether. So he did that, on 24 March 2022.
I do think its Barclays fault that Mr H wasnt able to move ahead with his plans to 
extend his lease in early 2021. I think that, in failing to resolve this issue, as well as 
denying responsibility for it, Barclays has provided poor service to Mr H over an 
extended period. I think Barclays should pay Mr H some compensation for that. I think 
Barclays should pay Mr H £500, to say sorry for the stress and trouble that this has 
caused him.
However, its been more difficult to see what additional costs Mr H has incurred, which 
could reasonably be attributed to the mistakes I think Barclays has made here. Our 
service has written to Mr H twice, asking him to break down the costs hes told us about, 
and setting out what it might and might not be fair and reasonable for our service to ask 
Barclays to pay.
Ive explained to Mr H that when Im deciding whether to uphold his complaint, I also 
need to decide how that complaint should be upheld, and what Barclays should do to 
put things right. So Ive also explained that if he isnt able to set out his losses for us, 
then I cant reasonably ask Barclays to pay them.
Ill deal with each of the areas of expenditure Mr H has raised, under a separate 
heading. 
Additional mortgage costs  Mr H said he was paying more on his mortgage from 
February 2021 onwards. Hes sent us his mortgage statement from the time, which 
shows his monthly payments were much higher from February 2021. Mr H said this was 
an extra £1,274 in interest alone, before the mortgage was paid off.
I dont think thats quite right. Any loss wouldnt be the difference between Mr Hs old 
mortgage payments and the payments he made when he was on the SVR. It would be 
the difference between the payments he made when on the SVR, and a different 
mortgage deal he could otherwise have taken up in February 2021. So I need to think 
about whether Mr H would have been better off taking up a different mortgage deal then, 
and if so, whether its Barclays fault that he didnt do so.
Mr H said he stayed on the SVR because his fixed rate mortgage deal had ended, and 
he didnt want to tie himself in to a further fixed rate deal while he was still hoping to 
complete his lease extension and sell the property. He also said he was already 
concerned about the charge on his property, and he didnt want to give Barclays any 
other reason to revisit this. 
A new fixed rate mortgage deal will often attract both a setup fee when they start, and 
an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage is redeemed within the fixed rate period. I think it was reasonable for Mr H to decide in February 2021 that he didnt want 
to take out a fixed rate deal. But thats not because of the difficulties Mr H was facing 
with Barclays. Its because its not at all clear to me that Mr H would have been better off 
taking out such a deal in February 2021, given that he was planning to sell the property, 
and he in fact decided to redeem the mortgage in March 2022.
Its possible, though, that Mr H might have been better off from February 2021 if he had 
chosen to take up a tracker mortgage, with somewhat lower interest, and no fee or ERC, 
rather than simply paying Barclays SVR at the time. And Mr H doesnt seem to have 
explored at all whether he could move to such a mortgage. I think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr H to have taken this step, if he was concerned about the interest he 
was paying. And I dont think it would be reasonable now to ask Barclays to rework Mr 
Hs mortgage, so that he was on such a deal between February 2021 and March 2022 
(if indeed, Barclays could have offered this at that point) when Mr H could have taken 
this step himself at the time. So I wont ask Barclays to rework Mr Hs mortgage in this 
way now.
Legal costs  Mr H wanted Barclays to make a contribution to his legal costs. I can see 
that Mr Hs solicitor has written to Barclays a number of times. And I dont think this 
matter should have taken so much legal work to resolve. However, Mr H hasnt 
separated out for our service the costs that this incurred. Hes told us hes paid around 
£4,100 in legal fees so far, and a standard lease extension should cost about £1,500 in 
legal fees. But Mr H hasnt fully evidenced either of these sums. And what Mr H has 
sent us, shows that over a third of the legal fees hes paid so far seem to have been 
incurred before the problem with the deeds was even discovered.
Mr H has also said hes had to change solicitors in this time. I think this always leads to 
some duplication of work, and costs. And I have not been able to attribute this to 
Barclays.
For these reasons, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably ask Barclays to pay the 
difference between the amount of legal fees that Mr H said he was expecting, and the 
amount hes paid. But I do think its reasonable to assume that Mr H has paid something 
for the letters I can see, sent by his solicitor to Barclays. In the absence of further 
evidence specifying these exact costs, I think its reasonable to ask Barclays to pay 
£250 towards that.
Extension of the lease  Mr H hasnt yet completed the extension of his lease, and he 
says that he doesnt know if this will cost more, or not. As Mr H has since rented out the 
property again, its not clear whether or not he is still proceeding with this.
Mr H said any additional costs of the lease extension would, if they occur, form part of a 
separate claim. I think I should make Mr H aware that our service wont usually 
reconsider an issue that we have already issued a decision on. So I can offer Mr H no 
reassurance that we would be able to reconsider this matter in future, and add to any 
redress.
Other costs  Mr H has mentioned the loss of interest on savings which have been used 
to pay off this mortgage early, and a possible change in the value of the property itself. 
Mr H said that he couldnt evidence the loss of interest, as the money had been lent to 
him by someone else. And he couldnt show a change in the value of the property at the 
moment. So he accepted that these things wouldnt be included in this claim. I would 
only pause here to note again that if these items arent included now, I can offer Mr H no 
reassurance that we would be able to look at them in future.In summary, my decision is that Barclays should pay Mr H £500 in compensation, and 
£250 towards his legal costs.
Whilst this decision is provisional, and subject to change following further argument or 
evidence from either side, on the basis of what I have seen to date, I think this would 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied before the deadline, although Mr H contacted us after the deadline to 
ask if I would shortly be finalising my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr H £500 in compensation, and 
£250 towards his legal costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman