DRN-2874498
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Limited wont refund to him the amount that hes claimed for 
some building works. His wife is also involved in his complaint.
What happened
Mr M entered into a contact for some building work at his home which had a total price of 
£45,800. He signed a contract with the builder in November 2019. He says that hes paid a 
total of £39,950 to the builder  which included four payments totalling £25,950 between 
December 2019 and February 2020 using a credit card with another credit provider and then 
two payments of £5,000 each in March 2020 using his NewDay credit card.
There were issues with the building work so he complained to the supplier and Mr M says 
that the building work stopped when the government imposed restrictions in response to the 
pandemic in March 2020. He says that he then contacted trading standards and a citizens 
advice bureau and was advised that he could make a claim to NewDay under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr M says that he made a claim to NewDay in November 2020 but it says that he made a 
section 75 claim to it in January 2021 and asked it to refund £30,000 of the money that hed 
paid to the builder. It said that section 75 only applies to claims for transactions of a 
minimum value of £100 and a maximum value of £30,000  and, as the contract was for 
£45,800, Mr Ms claim doesnt fall into the criteria for a section 75 claim. It apologised that 
one of its advisers had told Mr M that his claim could be considered and credited his account 
with £85 for the upset caused. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that, although Mr M hadnt paid the 
full amount of the contract price, the contract price needed to be between £100 and £30,000, 
for a section 75 claim to be made - but the contact price was £45,800 so it was clear that the 
contract price was over the statutory limits for a valid section 75 claim. He also said that 
Mr M didnt notify NewDay of his claim until November 2020 and he thought that Mr M would 
have been out of time to bring a chargeback claim by then.
Mr Ms wife, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
She has described Mr Ms health issues which she says have been caused by the stress of 
this situation and she says that the advice given by trading standards and the citizens advice 
bureau was that this service has jurisdiction to look at whats right and fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
one of those circumstances is that the cash price that the supplier has attached to 
any single item must be at least £100 and not more than £30,000;
the contract for the building work had a total price of £45,800  it was a single 
contract for the work and I consider that the builder had attached a single price for 
the work of £45,800 which is more than the maximum limit for a claim under section 
75;
NewDay has accepted that it gave incorrect information about the claim to Mr M  
and its apologised for that and credited his account with £85 to compensate for the 
upset caused - which I consider to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances;
I consider that NewDay has correctly said that Mr Ms claim doesnt fall into the 
criteria for a section 75 claim;
our investigator also considered whether NewDay should have made a chargeback 
claim for the payments that Mr M had made to the builder;
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made and the 
applicable scheme rules set out the disputes that can be considered and the time 
limits for making a claim;
Mr M made payments to the builder using his NewDay credit card in March 2020 but 
he didnt contact NewDay about those payments until November 2020 at the earliest, 
about eight months later  I consider that the time limit for making a chargeback 
claim would have expired by then and that there was no reasonable prospect of such 
a claim being successful in these circumstances;
I dont consider that there was any requirement for NewDay to make a chargeback 
claim for the payments that Mr M had made to the builder and Im not persuaded that 
it acted unfairly or unreasonably in not doing so; and
I sympathise with Mr M for the health issues that hes suffering and for the issues that 
he and his wife have described with the building works, but Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require NewDay to refund to Mr M any of the 
money that hes paid for the building works, to pay him any further compensation or 
to take any other action in response to his claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman