DRN-1909907
The complaint 
Mr A says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to him irresponsibly. 
He says that he explained to Mutual throughout the time he was a customer that he couldnt 
afford to make the repayments but he was always offered further loans.  
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected loans Mutual provided to Mr A between 
April 2015 and November 2018. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 25/04/2015 £250 51 18/11/2015
2 05/09/2015 £500 102 31/05/2017
3 14/11/2015 £600 102 22/11/2017
4 02/07/2016 £500 102 05/09/2018
5 12/11/2016 £500 102 07/11/2018
6 21/06/2017 £700 102 outstanding
7 18/11/2017 £1,000 102 outstanding
8 10/11/2018 £1,500 102 outstanding
Mr A has said that he had taken other loans. Hes said that he started borrowing in 1992. But 
both parties to the complaint have been unable to provide any further information about 
earlier lending (amounts, dates etc.) that would allow any fair and reasonable conclusions to 
be reached. So I wont be considering any lending before April 2015 in this decision. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that Mutual shouldnt have approved 
any lending after loan 5 as the lending pattern itself was harmful. Mutual disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual have said and brief summary is below:
our adjudicator hasnt fully understood the product. Its not the same as a payday 
loan
the loans are not high interest or expensive
the adjudicator didnt properly consider the consumers circumstances or consider 
what proportionate checks were needed. The checks Mutual did were proportionate 
for each loan and the loans were affordable
its not appropriate to use an arbitrary loan number to uphold the complaint at. And 
there is no evidence to support the adjudicators conclusions that the length of time 
over which the consumer borrowed makes the loans unsustainable 
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is not necessarily harmful to 
consumers
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints 
and the what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type of 
credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go into 
detail on that here.  But a brief summary of this is below. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans it gave to him in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator, the FCA, defines sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mr A. 
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on 
these issues in detail through other final decisions and the published decisions on our 
website. So Im not going deal with these points at length here.  
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit. And 
while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a payday loan that does not make it a low 
risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said anything to the contrary on this point.  I 
have considered these issues alongside everything else in making my decision.
Mr A accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans  although, for the avoidance of doubt, 
from what Ive seen I agree that it wasnt unfair of Mutual to have provided these loans. But 
they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr A had with Mutual. So, they are something I 
will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending 
history with Mr A, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mutual should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. And this isnt an arbitrary number but is based on the individual circumstances of this 
case, including the consumers lending pattern. This because:
At this point Mutual ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr A had been indebted to Mutual for around 18 months. So Mutual 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not his indebtedness was 
unsustainable.
Mr As first loan was for £250 and loan 5 was for £500  double the original amount 
and the latest in a line of loans around this sum.  
Right from the start Mr A was provided with a new loan when he had either just 
settled a previous one or when he still had a loan, or loans, outstanding  loan 5 was 
approved when he already had three other loans still to repay and which werent due 
to be repaid for some time. 
Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mutual. By the time loan 
8 was approved this was over three and half years after Mr As first. And it was for a 
much larger amount. Mr A had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Mutual over an extended period.
Mutual has said that it continued to lend when Mr A was in financial difficulty, 
including having a County Court Judgement recorded against him in early 2017. I 
dont think this is reasonable and I dont see how Mutual could have been lending 
responsibly when it knew Mr A was having significant problems managing his money. 
Taking all this into account, I think that Mr A lost out because Mutual continued to provide 
borrowing from loan 5 onwards:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time; and
the length of time over which Mr A borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr As ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 8 and Mutual should put things 
right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr A from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr A may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr A loans 5 to 8.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts Mutual should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back then Mutual 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr A having made 
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A. Mutual shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr As borrowing for loans 5 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr As credit file. 
Mutual does not have to remove loans 6 to 8 from Mr As credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr As complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman