DRN-3239222
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was mis-sold a Platinum AVA Packaged Bank Account (PBA) by 
Lloyds Bank PLC. He says that he wasnt offered a free account. He would like a refund of 
the account fees.
What happened
Mr W has held this account for several decades. Although the records dont go back 
beyond September 2001, at that point it was as a fee free account. In March 2008 it was 
upgraded to a Platinum PBA in branch during a meeting. At that time, the account cost 
£15 per month and the key benefits were worldwide travel insurance; breakdown cover; 
mobile phone insurance and banking benefits in the form of a £250 interest free 
overdraft, and preferential interest rates on balances beyond that amount.
Mr W complained to Lloyds that the PBA had been mis-sold to him. Lloyds rejected that 
and Mr W brought his case to this service. The adjudicator considered the evidence and 
concluded that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W 
does not accept that and asked an ombudsman to look at things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Did Mr W agree to the PBA, knowing he didnt have to?
Mr Ws concerns on this point arent entirely clear, as he has both said that he wasnt given 
the option of a free bank account, and that the was told that this PBA was best for him. 
Those two things cant both be true. As mentioned above, Mr W had held a fee free 
account with Lloyds for some time and hasnt given any explanation as to why that option 
was no longer open to him come March 2008 and what he was told by Lloyds staff to 
account for that.
However, I think it is more likely than not that Lloyds did present this PBA as the best 
option for him. I say that because there are still system notes from the time of the sale 
which clearly indicate a discussion between Mr W and the Lloyds representative about his 
various insurance arrangements at the time. It seems that, as part of that review, Lloyds 
recommended the Platinum PBA to him, principally for the roadside and travel insurance:
...discussed upgrade to plat for aa and travel. mr happy as all benefits and saved 
£22 per month...
So I think that Mr W knew that he didnt have to upgrade to this PBA but chose to do so 
after a review during which Lloyds advised him he could save money on his overall 
insurance costs.
Was Lloyds wrong to recommend this account to Mr W?
Mr W seems to have complained to Lloyds that he already had these insurances elsewhere, 
so didnt need them. The system notes Ive already mentioned confirm that, but that Mr W 
wanted to change to policies offered by Lloyds, including as part of this PBA. He also 
appears to have told Lloyds during its investigation that in the end he decided to keep an 
additional breakdown policy, and so have duplicate cover, because he was worried about 
not being fully covered by the breakdown cover that came with this PBA. However, he wasnt 
able to explain what he thought he wouldnt be covered for. And he hasnt mentioned this in 
any of his evidence to us.
What is important for me to consider is whether Mr W could have used at least some of the 
main benefits of the PBA. He hasnt said he couldnt, and its clear that he travelled, drove a 
car, and had a mobile phone. So I dont think Lloyds was wrong to recommend this account 
to him.
It may not have given him full information about every aspect of the account, in fact, I think 
thats likely. But as I cant identify anything that would have meant Mr W couldnt use the 
benefits, that doesnt matter. Because if any information was missing, it wouldnt have 
changed his mind about taking the account.
Whether Mr W ultimately got as much value out of this PBA as he may have hoped is not 
relevant. After all, most insurance products are ultimately not claimed on  but that does not 
mean they were mis-sold. It simply means the negative event we are trying to protect 
ourselves from didnt happen.
He says that he thought the bank was helping him and he went with what they 
recommended, but that ...it was just a way to get more money out of... him. But as Ive 
explained, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr W couldnt have used the benefits that came 
with this PBA. And I also think he chose to upgrade knowing he didnt have to. So whilst he 
seems to feel strongly that this account was mis-sold, Ive found no evidence that it was.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC 
doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman