DRN-1944087
The complaint
Mr K complains because Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K holds a travel insurance policy, provided by Aviva, as a benefit of his bank account. 
Mr K fell ill while travelling abroad and was admitted to hospital, where he received treatment 
for four nights. 
After being discharged from hospital, Mr K contacted Aviva to register a claim for his medical 
expenses. Aviva asked for a bank statement showing Mr K had paid for his medical 
treatment, but Mr K said hed sourced the money from a money lender and provided 
evidence in support of this. 
Aviva carried out further investigations into Mr Ks claim and said the costs werent covered 
under his policy. Aviva said it thought the value of Mr Ks claim was exaggerated and that 
the organisation named on the loan agreement which Mr K had given Aviva had said the 
documents werent genuine. 
Mr K complained to Aviva, but it didnt change its decision. In addition to the reasons it had 
given previously, Aviva said the receipt which Mr K had provided differed from a copy it had 
seen, and that it was medically improbable for Mr K to have experienced symptoms of the 
illness he said he was suffering from on the dates in question. 
As Mr K remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into what had happened but said he didnt think Mr K had demonstrated that hed suffered a 
financial loss, so he didnt ask Aviva to do anything further. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision, Ive taken into account relevant industry rules and guidance 
which say Aviva should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy with Aviva say, in certain circumstances, it will pay 
for emergency medical treatment if a policyholder falls ill abroad. 
An insurer is generally entitled to make reasonable enquiries into the circumstances 
surrounding a claim to satisfy itself that the claim is payable before accepting cover. 
Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr K was admitted to hospital abroad on 
the dates given and that he was treated for the illness he described. Im also satisfied Mr K 
was billed for the medical expenses which are outlined on the receipt he has provided. 
This receipt confirms the medical bills were paid. But, the purpose of insurance is to ensure 
a policyholder isnt left out of pocket financially. So, for Mr K to successfully claim under his 
policy, he also needs to demonstrate that he has lost out financially as a result of what 
happened - either because he paid the bills himself or because he is obliged to reimburse 
the money used to pay the bills to a third party (i.e. the money lender). 
Mr K has provided a loan agreement which the money lender entered into on his behalf with 
an organisation which Ill call organisation U. Mr K has also provided a copy of photo 
identification belonging to the money lender. 
However, organisation U has confirmed to Aviva that the loan agreement isnt genuine and 
has said the document didnt originate from its organisation. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen organisation U only offers credit facilities to its staff. Organisation U has said neither 
Mr K nor the money lender are members of its organisation, and that it has had no dealings 
with either Mr K or the money lender. 
I understand Mr K says he dealt with the money lender at the hospital as he wasnt allowed 
to leave until hed pay the hospital bills. However, it was open to Mr K to contact Aviva while 
he was in hospital to see what, if any, assistance Aviva was prepared to provide with the 
hospital bills. Its a requirement of Mr Ks policy that the policyholder contacts Aviva as soon 
as possible after going into hospital. 
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about having no knowledge of who the money 
lender worked for or of organisation U. But the evidence Ive seen says the loan agreement 
Mr K entered into isnt genuine, so I dont think Mr K has demonstrated that he is responsible 
for reimbursing the money lender for the loan which he says was used to pay the bills.  
Mr K has suggested that Aviva contacted the wrong organisation in an attempt to verify the 
loan agreement, and that the money was loaned to him through a different small business. 
However, Im satisfied Aviva contacted the organisation who was purported to have provided 
and stamped the original loan agreement.
This means I dont think Mr K has evidenced that he has a valid claim under his policy. I 
dont think Aviva has been unfair or unreasonable by refusing to pay his claim and I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman