DRN-2755133
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy because Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank 
declined his credit card application and has not explained why.
What happened
Mr W applied for a M&S Bank credit card. His application was declined. Mr W asked M&S 
Bank to explain why. He wasnt happy with the explanation he received and so he came to 
this service. He thinks the fact that he has been declined will affect his ability to borrow in the 
future, as he may be applying for a mortgage next year. Mr W would like a specific reason 
why his application was declined.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. The investigator summarised 
the information provided by M&S Bank and said based on the information that theyd seen 
and heard, they didnt think it would be fair to say that M&S Bank had treated Mr W unfairly. 
They thought that M&S Bank had followed its procedures during the assessment of Mr Ws 
application for a credit card and that the advisor on the called that took place on 
27 November 2020 provided Mr W with a detailed breakdown of why his application was not 
approved, and what factors were considered during his application.
Mr W disagreed. He said the investigator had just provided him with a generic list of how 
M&S Bank assess applications. He couldnt see anything specific to him to explain why the 
application was declined. He also said that although he told M&S Bank, he had one credit 
card he in fact had two. He hadnt mentioned the other card as it had a nil balance. He thinks 
that his credit file  which has no black marks  and his history with many credit cards in the 
past demonstrates beyond doubt that he can manage his finances. He also thought the 
second credit card that he had forgotten to mention should have shown up on a credit 
reference check. He thinks it is unfair to decline an application and stain someones credit 
history for no good reason. He also thinks that he should be able to see the information M&S 
Bank has provided and not be denied it because it is commercially sensitive. He questions 
whether he was denied a credit card because M&S Bank didnt think there was enough 
scope to profit from him? He wants the M&S Bank search to be removed from his credit 
history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration. He feels that it should be clear that he can manage his 
finances and so doesnt understand why he was declined an M&S Bank credit card. Like the 
investigator Im satisfied that M&S Bank has applied its criteria and decided based, on that 
criteria not being met, that Mr W wouldnt be offered a credit card account. Banks are 
entitled to set their own criteria. They are not expected to share these criteria with their 
customers as it is commercially sensitive. There is nothing in what I have seen to suggest 
Mr W has been treated unfairly. There is no requirement on the bank to give Mr W a specific 
reason. I can confirm M&S Bank was aware he had two credit card accounts.
I appreciate Mr W wants the search removed from his file. I asked M&S Bank whether it 
would consider doing this. It declined because it is a true reflection of what happened. I wont 
be ordering M&S Bank to remove the search as it did make it. Many people have these 
searches on their credit file. These searches are not inherently negative, and lenders are 
used to seeing them. I hope this provides Mr W with some comfort even though I appreciate 
my decision will disappoint him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman