DRN-3744630
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice he received from an appointed representative of WPS 
Financial Group Limited (WPS). WPS is responsible for answering the complaint, so Ill just 
refer to it throughout my decision. The advice was regarding the transfer of benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme 
(BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss. 
Mr B is being represented by a professional third party but again for ease of reading this 
decision Ill largely refer to representations as being made by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B held benefits in the BSPS. In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be 
examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers 
DB pension scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr B approached WPS in July 2017 to discuss his BSPS pension. WPS completed a fact-
find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. Mr B was 52, in good 
health, divorced with one dependent child. He was employed, earning approximately 
£48,000 per year. WPS recorded that Mr B owned his own home, he had approximately 
£170,000 in savings and investments and it didnt record any debts being owed by Mr B. It 
said his income exceeded his outgoings and he was putting approximately £1,000 per month 
into savings. In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr B was also said to be a 
member of his employers new defined contribution (DC) workplace pension scheme.
WPS noted that Mr B had no specific plans for retirement in its meeting notes. But it 
recorded in other fact-finding documents that he might like to retire at age 57 or 58 and that 
early retirement was his main priority. It said when he did retire, he expected to need an 
income of approximately £20,000 per year. WPS said Mr B was concerned about the issues 
that had affected the BSPS and the potential penalties that would apply for early retirement. 
And he was concerned about the fund being lost in the event of his death and wanted to 
provide a legacy for his daughter.
WPS also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
medium or six on a scale of one to ten, with one being lowest risk and ten highest.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position  with the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs pension being £548,121.86. And in October 2017, 
members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to 
either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their 
BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 11 October 2017, WPS provided its suitability report to Mr B. It said Mr B wanted to move 
his BSPS pension to ensure its security, and he wanted to break ties with his employer in 
respect of this pension. WPS said Mr B wanted a more flexible arrangement that would 
better suit his needs and objectives and he wanted to draw benefits before the normal 
scheme retirement age and to vary his income. WPS also said he wanted alternative death 
benefits so he could provide for his family in the event of his death. WPS noted that while his 
attitude to risk was high medium because the BSPS pension made up a large part of his 
retirement provisions, his capacity for loss was low. So, it said WPS and Mr B had agreed 
that a lowest medium attitude to risk (four on a scale of one to ten) was appropriate.
WPS said its recommendation was not to transfer away from the BSPS. It said if Mr B 
ignored this recommendation, hed be treated as an insistent client. The report went on to 
say that this was due to the loss of valuable guaranteed benefits, the growth rates required 
to replicate these benefits following a transfer (critical yields) being unrealistic and there 
being the potential for the new BSPS2 pension. But the report also went on to talk about a 
potential pension provider and investment strategy, in the event the transfer went ahead.
The suitability report included several declarations that WPS asked Mr B to sign. These were 
to acknowledge he would be giving up guaranteed benefits, the critical yields being high and 
that WPS had recommended he retain his BSPS benefits.
Mr B also signed a transfer facilitation confirmation on 12 October 2017. This included a 
pre-prepared declaration saying that he declined WPS recommendation and still wanted to 
transfer to a more flexible arrangement and he didnt want his funds to remain in scheme. 
The declaration form said WPS had agreed to facilitate a transfer, to the pension provider 
that had been referenced in the suitability report. And I understand his benefits were 
subsequently transferred to the pension provider that WPS had referenced, with Mr B also 
paying for ongoing servicing from WPS.
Mr B complained in 2022 to WPS about the advice hed received. WPS didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said Mr B had approached it with the intention of transferring and had already 
spoken to other advisers about potentially doing so. It said Mr Bs main priorities were 
providing for his daughter in the event of his death and flexibility. WPS said it had advised 
against a transfer, but Mr B had insisted on proceeding and it had no reason to believe he 
hadnt made an informed decision to do so. WPS also said the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), had reviewed other examples of its advice to insistent clients and 
found no issues.
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into it and thought it should be upheld. He said he didnt think WPS had done enough 
to address Mr Bs concerns about the status of the BSPS or to show him that he could 
potentially meet his retirement objectives without transferring. So, he didnt think Mr B was in 
an informed position and shouldnt have been treated as an insistent client. And if Mr B had 
been given clearer information, the Investigator thought he wouldnt have transferred. As a 
result, he recommended that WPS compensate Mr B for any losses to his pension incurred 
due to the transfer and pay him £250 for the distress hed incurred. 
WPS disagreed. It said it had advised Mr B not to transfer and hed made an informed decision to go against that advice. It repeated that the FCA had not found fault with its 
advice process. And it also thought Mr B was unlikely to have suffered a loss.
Mr Bs representatives largely accepted the Investigators findings and said it didnt think 
Mr B was in a sufficiently informed position to be considered an insistent client. But they said 
they didnt think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to 
account for income tax was fair as this didnt account for ongoing charges that Mr B may 
incur.
WPS went on to say that, while it did not agree with the Investigators opinion, it had run a 
calculation that indicated he had not incurred a loss. And it would be willing to now run an 
updated calculation, using the FCAs BSPS specific redress calculator, but required 
information from Mr B and his representative to do so. But this had not been forthcoming. It 
also confirmed it was willing to pay the amount for distress and inconvenience the 
Investigator had recommended, in order to resolve the matter.
Mr Bs representative said that he wanted a decision by an Ombudsman and added that this 
issue had caused him significant distress. Mr B said it was difficult to put into words the 
impact this had on him but that it had caused him day to day worry. And added to this, 
colleagues, who had made complaints previously, had received compensation but he was 
now seeing people being told that theyd not incurred a loss and no compensation was due 
which he believed was an injustice.
In light of Mr Bs request for a decision and as it has not been possible to reach an 
agreement in this case, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WPS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer, including COBS 19.1.6G, in which the FCA states that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, a business 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
the customers best interests. 
Was a transfer in Mr Bs best interests?
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that WPS was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 8.21% to match the 
full pension hed have been entitled to under the BSPS at age 65. WPS said Mr B was 
interested in retiring at age 57 or 58. It didnt calculate the critical yield to match the benefits 
payable at that age. But instead calculated the critical yield to match the full pension the 
BSPS couldve paid him from age 60, which was 11.19%. I think it ought to have calculated 
the yields specific to the age at which it says Mr B wanted to retire. But in any event, the 
calculation that was carried out, serves to indicate that critical yields tend to increase for 
earlier retirement.
The TVAS also calculated the critical yields required to match the benefits Mr B wouldve 
been entitled to under the PPF at ages 65 and 60. For retiring at age 65, the critical yield 
was 4.52% to match the full pension Mr B couldve taken, or 4.01% to match the maximum 
tax-free cash and reduced starting pension the PPF wouldve offered instead. For retiring at 
age 60, the equivalent critical yields were 6.53% and 5.77% respectively.
Although it was confirmed while the advice was ongoing that continuing in the BSPS in its 
existing form wasnt an option for Mr B, WPS didnt run a TVAS analysing the benefits Mr B 
would have been due under the BSPS2. As, the updated transfer valuation Mr B received 
was guaranteed until December 2017 and details of the BSPS2 revaluation rates became 
available, I think WPS shouldve done this. In any event, given what we know about the 
BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from 
were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.  The relevant discount rates 
at the time were 4.0% for 12 years to retirement  relevant if Mr B retired at age 65  and 
3.4% for 7 years to retirement  relevant if he retired at 60.
There would be little point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But given 
Mr Bs agreed lowest medium attitude to risk, the discount rates and considering the 
regulators standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% for low, medium and high 
rate returns respectively, I think he was always unlikely to improve on the benefits hed have 
received under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the normal retirement age, by transferring. And if 
he had retired early, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of lower value than hed have 
been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF. And indeed, WPS acknowledged that the 
critical yields were extremely high and that the prospect of achieving that level of returns 
was extremely low. 
WPS recorded that Mr B wanted to potentially retire early and expected to need an income 
of £20,000 per year, so was interested in flexible access to his benefits. But the fact find 
suggested these plans were not entirely finalised  which is emphasised by the expected retirement age being somewhat vague. And he couldve taken pension benefits early under 
either the BSPS2 or the PPF. The annual pension he was estimated to be entitled to under 
the PPF from age 60 was £21,116.05. The pension hed have been entitled to from age 57 
or 58 wouldve been lower  due to increased actuarial reductions to reflect the fact that 
benefits wouldve been payable for longer. But Mr B also held significant savings  which he 
was increasing by about £1,000 per month. And hed also have had benefits hed built up in 
his employers new DC scheme pension  which notes WPS has provided indicated he was 
making contributions of around 20% of his salary to, and which he says, and further notes 
support, have since increased to 30%. So, its highly likely he couldve retired early and met 
his income needs by remaining in the DB scheme. And hed have still had further savings 
and flexible pension benefits through his DC scheme, that he couldve drawn on, if he had 
actually needed flexibility. So, I dont think transferring for flexibility he didnt need was in his 
best interests.
WPS also said that Mr B was concerned about providing a legacy for his daughter and 
interested in the lump sum death benefits of a personal pension to allow it to be passed on 
to her in the event of his death. But the purpose of a pension is to provide for the holders 
retirement, not to leave a legacy to his estate. And its also worth noting that the value on 
Mr Bs death was always likely to be different to the CETV, due to investment performance 
and any withdrawals he made. And taking out life insurance to provide a legacy to his 
daughter was an appropriate alternative solution. It appears WPS obtained a quote for a 
whole of life policy replicating the CETV of his BSPS pension. Basing the quote on the 
transfer value of Mr Bs pension benefits essentially assumed that he would pass away on 
day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. But nevertheless, the premiums, the 
lowest being around £233 per month, were affordable for Mr B. And so, I dont think the 
access to alternative death benefits meant a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests either.
WPS said Mr B was concerned about the security of his pension and what had happened to 
that point, so wanted to break ties with his employer. But transferring meant that the entire of 
his pension fund was subject to investment risk, borne by Mr B. Whereas remaining in the 
scheme and either joining the BSPS2 or the PPF meant that his pension was still 
guaranteed. So, if security was his objective, I dont think a transfer met this. 
I dont doubt that Mr B was likely to have been worried by what had happened to that point 
regarding the DB scheme. The consultation was likely to have been unsettling and he may 
well have had negative feelings about his employers handling of the matter. And he mightve 
thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would have been a 
very natural emotional response to what was happening. But Mr Bs employer and pension 
scheme were not one and the same. And Mr B still worked for his employer and was 
contributing to the new pension scheme it offered, suggesting the relationship may not have 
been as irretrievably broken down as suggested. 
A number of key announcements had been made that all pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide better benefits than the PPF 
and still provide Mr B the option to transfer closer to retirement. And even if the BSPS2 
hadnt been established, the PPF still provided Mr B with a guaranteed income and the 
option of accessing his benefits early. And this wouldve allowed him to meet his objectives 
and he was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was 
not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any fears he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Taking all of that into account I dont think a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests.
The advice WPS provided and whether this was clear and suitableWPS says it advised against transferring and the recommendation explained the reasons for 
this were that the DB scheme provided valuable guaranteed benefits which would continue 
to revalue, there was an extremely low likelihood of achieving the growth rate required to 
replicate these and details of the replacement scheme due to be introduced werent yet 
known. But like our Investigator, I think there was a lot more information that ought to have 
been included in the recommendation.
WPS gave its final advice on 11 October 2017. And documents were signed to enable the 
transfer the day after. By that time, Mr B had been provided an updated transfer quotation, 
which was guaranteed until 11 December 2017. As Ive noted the advice said that details of 
the BSPS2 were not known but this was one of the reasons for not transferring. However, I 
cant see that issuing its final suitability report, before those details were available, and just 
including this rather vague reason was in Mr Bs best interests or meant he was given clear 
information in order to make an informed decision. WPS has said that Mr B was not 
interested in remaining in the scheme. But its role wasnt to put in place what Mr B mightve 
thought he wanted. It was to give him clear, objective advice about what was in his best 
interests.
Mr B had another two months before his transfer quotation expired. And details of the 
BSPS2 were being released, and indeed were explained in time to choose letters that were 
issued in October 2017. So, I think WPS ought to have waited for this information to become 
available. Once that information was provided, not least escalation and revaluation rates, a 
TVAS couldve been carried out, giving Mr B a detailed analysis of the benefits the new 
scheme would provide. 
This information about the benefits that Mr B could expect to receive under the BSPS2 
couldve then been used to give him a clear explanation why he didnt need to transfer to 
meet his early retirement and income objectives. As, Ive noted, the TVAS report said that 
the PPF would provide a pension in excess of Mr Bs target income from age 60. And its 
likely the BSPS2 benefits wouldve been of a similar level. The annual pension was likely to 
have been lower from age 57 or 58. But both the BSPS2 and PPF benefits were guaranteed, 
and they wouldve continued to escalate. And combined with Mr Bs other retirement 
provisions  his savings and DC pension benefits  appear likely to have been enough to 
comfortably meet his needs. I think that was crucial information, which ought to have been 
explained to Mr B with monetary examples. As was the fact that he was unlikely to be able to 
replicate the benefits the BSPS2 or the PPF guaranteed to provide him. But the suitability 
report did not explain this clearly to Mr B.
The recommendation also said that the trustees of the BSPS confirmed they seldom granted 
consent for retirement between ages 55 and 60. That statement indicated that Mr B would 
not have been able to retire at age 57 or 58 under the BSPS2 or the PPF  so couldnt have 
met his objectives. But we havent been provided any information to support this. And I think 
this was potentially misleading. The suitability report also referred to the limitations of the 
PPF which it said Mr B was familiar with. But again, in my view in order to be objective, 
there ought to have been much more detailed and clearly set out analysis of the benefits the 
PPF did offer  as they appear likely to have allowed Mr B to meet his objectives without 
exposing his pension to investment risk. Particularly as there was generally a negative 
perception of the PPF at the time, which I think, to meet its requirement to provide clear and 
objective advice, WPS shouldve done more to address.
On the subject of providing a legacy for his daughter, as Ive already touched on, insurance 
appears to have been a viable alternative. And this was another reason, in my view, that a 
transfer was not in Mr Bs best interests. But the suitability report made no mention of this 
option or the purpose of the pension not being to provide for Mr Bs estate. The whole of life 
quotations werent referred to, nor the option of taking potentially cheaper term assurance instead, or why it was likely in Mr Bs best interests to consider this.  And I think that ought to 
have been explained. And a clear way to do that wouldve been to provide monetary 
examples for Mr B to consider. Because, without doing so, Mr B again wasnt made aware of 
all of the reasons that a transfer wasnt in his interests. WPS has said that Mr B discounted 
insurance. But, even if that was the case, I think this still ought to have been discussed in the 
recommendation. Because again WPS role was to give clear and objective advice.
Taking all of that into account, I dont think Mr B was given all of the information he shouldve 
been, in order for him to make an informed decision.
WPS has referred to Mr B signing several declarations saying he understood the advice. But 
these declarations, which were pre-prepared by WPS, were based on the incomplete 
reasoning and analysis that had been provided to him. So, I dont think this demonstrates 
that he was in an informed position to decide whether to proceed against the advice.
The suitability report also referred to Mr B being able to ignore the recommendation and 
proceed as an insistent client, before giving the reasons for that recommendation. And it 
went on to discuss a pension provider and investment strategy that WPS said reflected 
Mr Bs attitude to risk. I dont think introducing the option to disregard the advice and how the 
pension would be invested if Mr B did so, at the same time as providing that advice, was 
appropriate. In my view, a more appropriate process wouldve been to advise Mr B why a 
transfer wasnt in his interests, clearly explaining all of the reasons why, and then allow him 
to consider this.
WPS has said that Mr B was sent two suitability reports. The first was on 15 August 2017. 
And the second, on 11 October 2017, was only issued after Mr B had said he still wanted to 
go ahead with a transfer. So, it says he did have time to consider the advice. WPS has 
provided a copy of the suitability report it says was issued on 15 August 2017. Despite it 
containing several declarations I note none of them were signed and dated to confirm that 
this had shared with Mr B. But, in any event, the content of the report is almost identical to 
the one issued in October 2017. So, it still had the same flaws  the reasons a transfer was 
not in Mr Bs best interests were not explained in full, no explanation in clear monetary terms 
that Mr B could meet his objectives by joining the PPF and taking life insurance was given, 
and disregarding the advice and a suggested pension provider were already introduced. So, 
even if this was shared with Mr B, I dont think it changes the fact that he wasnt, in my view, 
given all of the information and clear, objective advice he ought to have been in order to 
make a decision about whether to proceed on an insistent client basis.
WPS has said that the FCA has reviewed advice it gave at the same time to insistent clients 
and didnt highlight any concerns. But the Financial Ombudsman Service and the FCA have 
different roles and remits. Unlike the FCA our role is not a regulatory one. We are tasked 
with looking beyond simply whether a firm has complied with its regulatory requirements. 
Instead, we consider the individual circumstances of a complaint, information from both 
parties and decide, while having regard for relevant law and regulations, what we consider to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Would Mr B have acted differently?
Of course, I have to consider what wouldve happened if WPS had provided all of the 
information I think it should have and given Mr B appropriate time to consider this.
WPS has said that Mr B had already decided he didnt want to remain in the DB scheme as 
he had lost trust in his employer, and he considered a flexible pension better met his 
priorities. It also said that Mr B, like many of his colleagues, was well aware of his options 
and the implications of these, as the BSPS was well publicised and a topic of constant discussion. And WPS says Mr B had spoken to two other businesses before contacting it, 
but he was unhappy with the fees those other businesses proposed to charge. 
Ive considered this carefully. Im aware there was a significant amount of concern amongst 
members of the BSPS about what the consultation meant. And that there was a lot of 
coverage of what may happen. But, while I think it was a perfectly reasonable emotional 
response for Mr B to have taken a potentially negative view of his existing scheme, that was 
why it was even more important for WPS to provide him with clear, objective advice.
While Mr B may have spoken to other businesses about their charging structure before 
engaging WPS, I havent seen any evidence that those other businesses provided Mr B with 
advice. Or that hed already chosen to disregard this.
Mr B mightve entered the advice process with WPS with transferring in mind or thinking that 
was what hed like to do. But while Mr B had indicated he had some previous investment 
experience, he also indicated this was limited. And that, while he understood the basics, he 
still required advice and explanation. I cant see that he had a great deal of relevant 
decision-making experience relating to the management of a pension of this size and 
importance. And so, I think he wouldve relied on the advice he was given.
With that in mind, if WPS had provided Mr B with a more thorough explanation of why 
transferring was not in his best interests and afforded him more time to consider this without 
having introduced the option of disregarding that advice immediately, I think Mr B wouldve 
considered this, given it was coming from a professional adviser. And if it had been clear he 
was very unlikely to improve on the benefits he was due under the scheme, including those 
the PPF would offer, monetary examples had been discussed and explained to show his 
objectives were still achievable and alternative forms of providing a legacy to his family had 
been properly detailed, with any objections he mightve had objectively challenged, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice. And I dont think Mr B wouldve transferred his pension.
In light of the above, I think WPS should compensate Mr B for any losses the transfer has 
resulted in. While Mr B indicated a preference for early retirement, his circumstances 
couldve changed, and I dont think his plans were finalised. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr B 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2 than from the PPF. So, had he received suitable advice not 
to transfer, I think Mr B wouldve opted into the BSPS2. And I think WPS should compensate 
him on this basis.
Mr B has said he feels it is potentially an injustice if he is not due any compensation from the 
relevant redress calculation. And he has referred to colleagues previously being 
compensated. But our role is not to fine or punish WPS. It is to try to put Mr B back in the 
position he would have been in, but for an error. He cant be returned to the BSPS. So, he 
cant be put in that position. As that isnt an option, I think it is appropriate to use the redress 
methodology set by the regulator. That methodology may indicate Mr B is not worse off  
that the value of his current pension exceeds that required to purchase equivalent benefits to 
those he gave up at retirement. But that should be a reassurance to Mr B. And if the 
calculation does show no loss, I dont think that means itd be fair to depart from using this 
methodology.
The Investigator also recommended that WPS pay Mr B £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr Bs representatives have said that this has caused him significant 
upset. And Mr B has said it was difficult to put into words the day to day worry he has 
experienced. Mr B received advice from WPS in October 2017. Its notes indicate he remained a client, 
and it provided ongoing servicing and reviews of his pension until 2021. Mr B appears to 
have first complained about the advice hed received in early 2022. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest he indicated any concern about the advice hed received prior to 
discussing the matter with his representative and logging a complaint. So, it doesnt appear 
that the advice caused him ongoing distress or inconvenience during that period. I also cant 
see that Mr B has been caused inconvenience since complaining, beyond having to 
complain (which I note his representative did on his behalf), which we wouldnt normally 
make an award for.
I accept that Mr B has likely been worried to find, when he first discussed matters with his 
representative, that the advice he received might not have been suitable. The advice related 
to Mr Bs pension, which will play a significant part in his longer-term financial planning. And 
given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice, I dont 
doubt he has been concerned. But, while I think the worry and distress he has experienced, 
which wouldn't have occurred but for the advice that is the subject of this complaint, was 
likely to be more than the level of frustration and annoyance he would usually experience on 
a day-to-day basis, I think the award of £250 recommended by our Investigator is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for WPS to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in had he received clearer and fair advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and joined the BSPS2 if 
WPS had done everything it shouldve. 
WPS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
WPS should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what WPS 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, I understand Mr B has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, WPS should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts WPSs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, WPS may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I've thought about Mr Bs representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr B would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr B 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. And again, this notional 
deduction is something that the FCA references when outlining fair compensation. So, 
overall, I remain of the view that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr B for the 
impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
In addition, WPS should pay Mr B £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require WPS Financial Group 
Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
WPS Financial Group Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on WPS Financial Group 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman