DRN-2934300
The complaint
Ms J complains that a car she bought with the assistance of finance from N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge) isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Ms J bought a used VW Golf in August 2020. Ms J paid approximately £15,500 and at the 
time of purchase the car had covered around 28,000 miles.
In around January 2021 the car was recovered to a VW dealership for a fault with the 
gearbox. The car was still under manufacturers warranty at that stage. The VW dealership 
stripped the gearbox and refused the warranty claim as it said that the gearbox was not 
faulty, it had been damaged by driver error.
Ms J raised her complaint with Northridge and stated that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. As Northridge did not respond to Ms Js complaint within the 
required timescale Ms J referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into matters and Northridge authorised an inspector from DEKRA to 
look at the gearbox. The DEKRA report confirmed that there was damage to the gearbox 
that was caused by driver error. It cant be established exactly when this damage occurred.
Our investigator concluded that because the car had travelled around 11,000 miles in 5 
months it was more likely that the damage occurred after the car was supplied, otherwise the 
fault would have presented much sooner. They didnt think that Northridge needed to do 
anything further to resolve the complaint.
Ms J didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the delay in dealing with the complaint 
has resulted in extra storage charges and expenses and that it was the responsibility of 
Northridge to prove that the fault was not there at the time of supply as it presented within 
the first 6 months. Ms J asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northridge, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Ms J - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will 
also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be reasonable to expect an older car to 
have more faults and require replacement of items more often than a brand-new car.
There is clearly an issue with the cars gearbox. The mechanics that have inspected the car 
consider that this problem has been caused by driver error rather than faulty components. 
Ms J says that the car was in good working order at first but there was a problem selecting 
gears which got progressively worse.
By the time the car was inspected after the gearbox had failed, it had covered over 39,000 
miles. Ms J has driven more than 11,000 miles in the car in about five months. This is above 
average mileage.
Ms J says that Northridge need to prove that the car was of satisfactory quality as the fault 
has become apparent in the first six months of ownership. Because the mechanics cant say 
when the damage occurred Northridge are responsible because the assumption is that the 
fault was present at the point of supply. 
Im not persuaded that the issue the car has now was present or developing when the car 
was supplied to Ms J. I think Northridge has provided enough evidence for me to conclude 
that the car was of satisfactory quality.  I say this because the DEKRA report suggests that 
the fault has occurred as a result of forcing the gears. It seems to me, that if the fault was 
present at the point of sale then Ms J would not have been able to cover 11,000 miles before 
the gearbox failed. Ms J says that there wasnt a problem with the gears at first and the car 
was in good working order. If the damage to the gears was present at the point of sale, then 
Ms J would have had to continue to force the gears to make the wear worse to the point of 
failure. The damage to the gears, if it was present at the point of supply, would have made 
the gear selection problem evident long before January 2021 and before the car had 
covered 11,000 miles. Based on the information I have seen, I think it is more likely that the 
problem has arisen during Ms Js period of ownership and become progressively worse to 
the point of failure. I cant say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I understand the point Ms J is making with respect to the handling of her complaint and the 
storage charges. I do appreciate that Ms J states she was unable to get the car repaired 
because of the need to inspect the gearbox and because Northridge did not respond to her 
complaint within the timeframe. But I cant agree that Northridge need to pay for these 
charges. This is because Northridge were not responsible for the problems with the car and 
did not ask Ms J to store the car so it could be inspected. I understand why Ms J thought it 
was best to wait for the outcome of the complaint before repairing or recovering the car, but I 
cant say that Northridge should pay these costs.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Northridge to pay for any repairs to the car, to pay any compensation to Ms J or to take any 
other action in response to her complaint.
I understand that my decision will be a disappointment to Ms J and Im sorry for the 
problems shes had with the car and the repairs it now needs.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman