DRN-3454434
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) is responsible for 
damage to her property following a claim made under her Home Plan insurance policy.
 
In raising this complaint, Mrs B is represented by a family member, but Ill refer throughout to 
Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B has a Home Plan insurance policy from RSA which covers her for the essential 
services in her home. In June 2020, an RSA engineer attended to a call out from Mrs B who 
had a concern about the temperature of her water. This was resolved by an adjustment to 
her control settings, but the engineer noted some rust spots on the boiler flue. There was no 
fault identified, so no action was taken but it was recommended that an eye be kept on the 
flue.
In October 2020 Mrs B contacted RSA again to report that there was another problem with 
her heating. Her daughter noticed that there was a considerable leak from the flue pipe 
whenever the hot water was run or the heating was on and this required something to be 
placed underneath to catch the water. Mrs B says that the leak had caused damage to the 
ceiling of her kitchen which is below the boiler.
RSAs engineer attended on 11 October and reported his findings as follows:
Investigate leak and found flue pipe holding water in brackets then looking further it 
would seem there is a water leak above the boiler and soaking into the wood and walls 
above where the boiler is situated. Advised customer to get someone to attend to roof 
for further investigation. I have tested the air side of the flue so make sure it wasnt 
condensation before looking elsewhere (sic).
Mrs B inspected the area above the boiler and saw no evidence of any leak in the loft space 
despite heavy rain and provided photographic evidence of the loft and boiler areas. RSA 
asked Mrs B to obtain a quote for the cost of a repair to her kitchen ceiling and has 
explained that it is its usual practice to do so without any acceptance of liability.
Another RSA engineer attended on 26 October to provide a second opinion. His report 
stated:
On arrival found flue to be leaking but also found the roof to be leaking onto the boiler 
when it rains. Spoke to the customer and informed her of the leak and that the roof 
needs to be repaired before the boiler can be repaired as the boiler would continue to 
be At Risk due to the potential danger of rain getting onto the boiler.
He therefore classified the boiler as At Risk and turned it off to make it safe. Mrs B was told 
that she should have the roof repaired and an engineer would then return to carry out the 
flue replacement.
Mrs B arranged for a roofer to inspect the roof for leaks. Mrs B says he confirmed that there 
were no leaks in the roof but he didnt provide any report to this effect. RSA says that on 19 
November Mrs B advised it that the roof had been repaired. RSA then authorised the 
replacement of the flue. In the meantime, Mrs B, who is elderly, was left without any hot 
water or heating for a period of 2.5 weeks at a cold time of year and had to use alternative 
heating sources which were more expensive to run.
Mrs B would like RSA to meet the cost of the repair to her kitchen ceiling for which she had 
been quoted £230. Although she has home insurance that might cover the cost of this repair, 
the policy excess is £350 which is more than the cost of the repair. She would also like to be 
reimbursed for the increased electricity costs of the alternative heating while her boiler was 
turned off. She also suffered stress and contracted a cold due to the lack of heating in her 
house.
In response to Mrs Bs complaint, RSA said it was unable to uphold it as it couldnt attribute 
the ceiling damage to its engineer as both engineers had reported water from the roof which 
was already present when they attended the property. It also referred to a term of Mrs Bs 
policy which states:
We will not pay for any damage, cost or expense of any kind that can be covered 
under a household policy, for example structural damage, theft, extreme weather, 
flooding, fire or explosions and accidental damage.
As Mrs B wasnt happy with RSAs response to her complaint, she brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt consider that RSA had acted unreasonably as the terms & conditions 
of the policy dont oblige RSA to cover the costs of the damage to the kitchen ceiling, and 
because RSA relied on two separate engineer reports that the roof was leaking.
Mrs B doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Im therefore asked to provide a final response from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly Ive considered whether RSAs engineers did anything wrong. When the engineer 
attended in June 2020 and adjusted the temperature settings, he noticed a few rust spots on 
the flue which he tested. He found it to be intact but he recommended that the flue be 
monitored. He didnt report signs of any leak. Mrs B didnt report any signs of a leak either. 
As there was nothing to repair, nothing further was done.
The two engineers who attended in October both noticed signs of a leak from above the 
boiler and from the flue itself.  A leak from the roof was thought to be responsible for water 
on the boiler and on surrounding walls and woodwork.
I appreciate that Mrs B investigated the loft area and found no recent water marks or 
leakage from the roof and that the roof was inspected by a roofer who found no problem with 
the roof. However in considering this complaint I dont need to make a finding as to whether or not the 
roof was leaking. I need to consider whether RSA did anything wrong given the situation two 
engineers had identified. 
Theres no evidence before me of the existence of a leak in June 2020, nor of any failure by 
RSAs engineer to address anything as there was nothing at that time to address.
When a leak was identified in October 2020, theres no evidence before me that RSA was 
responsible for this. They were called in response to it. I dont consider that RSAs engineer 
did anything wrong in turning off the boiler for safety. I also dont consider it was 
unreasonable of RSA to delay the repair to the flue until the cause of any leakage on to the 
boiler had been addressed. I therefore cant find RSA responsible for the damage caused to 
Mrs Bs ceiling.
Ive looked at the terms of Mrs Bs policy to see what it says about liability for damage that 
might be caused by the acts or omissions of RSAs engineers. Ive quoted above the policy 
exclusion for damage thats covered by another insurance policy. I can understand why Mrs 
B didnt want to claim on this policy because of its £350 excess. But I dont consider that 
RSA therefore becomes liable.
Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover routine maintenance. It also specifically states under What is 
not covered that it doesnt cover Repair or replacement of flue systems (para 1.13). 
Despite this, RSA did replace Mrs Bs flue after shed informed it that her roof had been 
repaired, so she received a benefit her policy didnt allow for.
 
So having found that RSAs engineers werent responsible for the leak that led to Mrs Bs 
boiler being turned off, and for damage to her ceiling, and that even if they were, a claim for 
consequential damage is excluded by the terms of her policy, I dont find that RSA has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in not upholding her complaint. And as I dont consider that RSAs 
engineers did anything wrong in turning off the boiler for safety until the roof had been 
repaired, I dont consider that its liable for the additional heating costs incurred. Im very 
sorry to hear that Mrs B suffered stress and developed a cold, but I dont think RSA did 
anything wrong. The boiler was turned off for her safety.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman