DRN-3148726
The complaint
Mr S complained because Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, allowed a payment to go 
through his account which he hadnt authorised.
What happened
On 16 October 2019, Mr S made a genuine payment of £24.99 to a business.
On Friday 16 October 2020, Mr S was checking his Halifax online banking, and noticed a 
pending £24.99 payment to the same business. Mr S had understood that the 2019 payment 
was for a years contract, not an ongoing contract. 
Mr S rang Halifax and said the payment shouldnt be made. The adviser told him that the 
payment couldnt be disputed while it was pending. Mr S also pointed out that his card had 
been changed since the 2019 payment, so the business shouldnt have been given his new 
card number. Halifax told Mr S that the card company does tell companies what a 
customers new card number is. Mr S asked if the card company also gave out the security 
code, which Halifax said it didnt. So Mr S wasnt happy that Halifax had accepted the 
businesss payment request on a card number which had hadnt provided to the business, 
and without a security number. He complained, saying no-one should give out his card 
number without his permission.
Mr S then contacted the business and it refunded him on Monday 19 October.
In Halifaxs final response to Mr Ss complaint, it said it was sorry to hear that Mr S had had 
a transaction which he hadnt known was a fixed contract. It said that when Mr S had taken 
out the agreement with the business, hed have agreed to the terms and conditions to take 
the payment annually, which was called a continuous payment. Halifax explained that when 
a continuous payment is agreed with a company, the business can ask for replacement card 
details through the card company.
Halifax said that it could see the business had refunded Mr S, and said it had put a block on 
the business as Mr S had requested.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that when hed spoken to 
Halifax, it had said hed agreed to a rolling contract with the business, and this wasnt true. 
Mr S had checked this with the business. He said that:
- Halifax wouldnt accept that he hadnt signed a rolling contract and that therefore it 
shouldnt have let the payment through; and 
- it was totally wrong for the card company to have given out card details to a third 
party without the card holders knowledge. He pointed out that cardholders are told to 
protect their cards. 
Mr S said that what he wanted as an outcome was to prevent any future events  no-one 
should pay, or give out his card details, without his consent. 
Mr S also sent us copies of information, including a message from the business which said 
It looks like your payment method on file is expiring soon and your [name of firm] 
subscription is about to expire on 15 October 2020 Please update your payment 
information by 15 October or youll lose access to [name of firm and plan.]
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He thought Mr S had agreed a continuous 
payment authority with the business, and hadnt cancelled it before the 16 October 2020 
payment. And he pointed out that as the business had refunded Mr S, he couldnt ask 
Halifax to refund Mr S because hed already had the refund.
The investigator said hed looked at whether Halifax should have done things differently. He 
said that when the payment was pending the bank couldnt have blocked or removed it, 
only raise a dispute about it, which it had done. He also explained that banks notify card 
companies when they replace cards because of loss, theft, or approaching expiry date. Mr 
Ss card had been renewed in February 2020, and the new information had been passed to 
the card company. And it had been the card company which had passed it to the business.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that:
- as far as he was concerned it was an optional annual subscription, not an ongoing 
contract. All hed done was tick a box on a website form to sign up for one year from 
15 October 2019. He asked to see any contract which the investigator had seen 
which tied him to the business and allowed Halifax and the card company to pay 
without his consent;
- the business had contacted him about renewal on 8 October 2020, with the message 
Ive quoted above. Mr S said hed been busy and hadnt contacted the business to 
update the card details or agree to continue;
- the product wasnt satisfactory; and he thought the business had broken trading 
standards;
- the investigator had said he should have cancelled the agreement  but hed had 
nothing to tell him he should have done this;
- the fact the business had given him a refund showed he hadnt broken any 
agreement;
- Mr S disputed what the investigator had said about the bank and card company 
providing updated card details. As an example, he said that his wife had authorised 
her car insurer to use her Halifax card the following year  and the car insurer had 
contacted her afterwards, to say that it couldnt take the payment because the card 
had been renewed. 
Mr S also contacted the business to try to obtain a copy of what hed signed up to in 2019, 
but his letter was returned by the post office. He asked for a copy of what Halifax and the 
investigator had seen. There were further emails and Mr S asked for an ombudsman 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can entirely understand why Mr S is upset and annoyed at what happened. As he says, its 
not about the amount of the payment, but the principle that he doesnt believe he signed up 
to anything more than a one-year contract  and that his new card details shouldnt have 
been passed to the business. So Ive looked closely at what happened. Part of the issue here is about whos responsible 
for different parts of Mr Ss complaint. 
This service doesnt have jurisdiction over card schemes such as VISA or Mastercard. That 
means we cant consider complaints against them. So if Mr S wants to complain about the 
card scheme, he is free to do so, but its not something we can look at any further.  
Similarly, I dont have jurisdiction to look at whether or not the business has broken trading 
standards, either by the quality of the product or by claiming Mr Ss payment without 
authority. Thats an issue to take up with the relevant authority in that area.
But what I can consider is whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ss 
individual complaint against Halifax. And Ive looked in detail at whats happened here.
First, Mr S is understandably keen to see the payment authority which he authorised before 
the October 2019 payment  because he disputes it was a continuous payment authority. Im 
sorry to hear hes had trouble obtaining this from the business. Its not entirely clear what 
specific type of payment this was  but for reasons that Ill go on to explain, I dont think 
thats necessary for me to establish in coming to a decision here.
 Halifax has explained that it was instructed to make a payment based on a request from the 
merchant. It may be that this was as part of some form of standing or recurring authority, or 
not. But actually, I dont think its necessary to determine that here to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.
I say this because up to the point where Mr S told Halifax on 16 October 2020 that he hadnt 
authorised the payment, Halifax had only followed an instruction that it received to make a 
payment. Halifax had no reason not to make that payment where it looked to be genuine. At 
that point, the payment was already pending, and Halifax said it couldnt be stopped until the 
payment had gone through, which I accept. It was only at that point, after the payment had 
gone through, that Halifax could have started to investigate.
The general position here is that a bank will usually pay money on request, provided the 
relevant card and security details have been input. But if a customer later disputes a 
payment  as Mr S did here  the bank has an obligation to investigate and if appropriate 
refund the customer if they didnt authorise it.
Here, the business refunded Mr S the next working day after Mr S reported the problem to 
Halifax. If it hadnt done so, Id have expected Halifax to have conducted a thorough 
investigation, including requesting any relevant payment authority information from the 
business that instructed the payment. But as Mr S was refunded the next working day, I cant 
say that Halifax did anything wrong by not requiring detailed proof of Mr Ss authorisation. 
The financial loss had been resolved and relatively quickly too, so it was limited in what more 
it could do here. I realise that Mr S getting the refund wasnt because of anything Halifax did 
 but I have to be impartial and I dont think itd be fair to say that Halifax needed to do any 
more here where the underlying issue had ultimately been resolved quickly.
I do recognise that Mr S is primarily concerned with principle, not with the £24.99. And I can 
understand that hes far from happy both with the card scheme and with Halifax. I 
sympathise with that. But, looking at whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances here, I 
find that Halifax acted fairly.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Bank of Scotland, trading 
as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman