DRN-3925129
The complaint
Mrs V complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided her personal 
telephone details to a third-party bank without her consent 
What happened
Mrs V says she provided her personal mobile telephone number to Halifax to accommodate 
an online purchase in March 2022. Ms V says she was subsequently contact by another 
banking provider (Bank B) and was surprised it held her personal mobile phone number, and 
this had been passed to them by Halifax. Mrs V says she has never given her consent for 
her personal details to be passed to Bank B, and when she informed Halifax of her mobile 
telephone details in March 2022 she received an acknowledgement from them, but no 
mention was made that Bank B could be sent her personal information.
Mrs V says she was concerned there was a breach of data, and it was only when she 
complained that she was informed Halifax were part of Bank Bs banking group. Mrs V says 
Halifax should have been more transparent at the outset here and additionally the service 
she received from Halifax when dealing with her complaint was poor and shed had to make 
numerous telephone calls concerning this matter. 
Mrs V wants Halifax to apologise for its mistake, cover her phone call expenses and offer a 
financial goodwill gesture. 
Halifax says it has done nothing wrong as it is part of Bank Bs banking group, so it hasnt 
divulged her data to a third party. Lloyds have also pointed out that it made it clear to Mrs V 
of this in its final response in May 2022 and what actions she needed to take if she didnt 
agree, and subsequently informed her that its outcome of her complaint wouldnt change.  
Mrs V wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Halifax were, under its account terms and conditions, permitted to share Mrs 
Vs information to banks within the same banking group. The investigator felt although Mrs V 
hadnt received calls back from Halifax, it had been clear in its final response that it wouldnt 
be changing its outcome and what actions she needed to now take, if she wasnt happy with 
that outcome. 
Mrs V didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been of concern to Mrs V to believe her personal data had 
been passed to a third-party without her consent. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if Halifax had acted fairly when it provided Bank B with Mrs Vs personal mobile 
telephone number and if it should have informed her of that earlier. 
The first thing to say here is that Mrs V is now aware that Bank B and Halifax are part of the 
same banking group, so its fair to say there has been no breach of data here as this is 
permitted under the terms and conditions of her Halifax bank account, details of which have 
been provided to her by the investigator.
Mrs Vs complaint however centres around the fact she not only feels Halifax should have 
sought her authority before divulging her mobile phone details to Bank B, as importantly it 
should have informed her of that at the outset when she informed it of those details. 
Additionally, Mrs V says she also experienced poor customer service when she tried to call 
Halifax after its final response letter  and didnt get calls returned about her complaint. 
As far as Mrs Vs concerns about the service she received from Halifax, this was a result in 
the main, following the complaint she lodged in May 2022. Its worth saying here that its not 
the role of this service to scrutinise Halifaxs complaints process or to tell Halifax how it 
should deal with complaints more widely  my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in 
the individual circumstances of the complaint. What I will  say is that Halifax did respond to 
Mrs Vs complaint quickly in May 2022 and while Mrs V may not have agreed with its 
outcome, it did explain the process she should follow in those circumstances. Halifax 
explained this again to Mrs V in telephone calls she held with them, so I cant say Mrs V 
wasnt made aware of why her data was shared with Bank B. 
I understand the point made by Mrs V when she says she should have been informed her 
data could be shared this way when she initially provided Halifax with her personal mobile 
phone number. While perhaps it may have been helpful at that time for Halifax to have listed 
all the banks in the group it was part of in its letter to her in March 2022, these details are 
listed in its term and conditions, and its not the role of this service to tell Halifax how it must 
communicate such information to its customers. 
Mrs V says she has been a customer of Halifax and Bank B for decades and wishes to see 
the terms and conditions she signed into for that time, but it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Halifax to hold information that far back or from when Bank B and Halifax became 
part of the same banking group some years back. What is important here is any concerns 
Mrs V may have had about any breach of data were explained to her shortly after she raised 
the issue in May 2022, which should have put her mind at rest that wasnt the case. While 
Mrs V may not agree, under the terms and conditions of her bank account Halifax are 
permitted to share her personal data, here her mobile telephone number, with parts of the 
same banking group without her prior consent. 
With that in mind I cant say Halifax have made any mistakes regarding any data breaches 
and the service issues relate to the fact Mrs V didnt accept Halifaxs final response on the 
matter. I am satisfied her Halifax had it made clear to Mrs V its outcome to that complaint 
wouldnt change and what further actions she needed to take in those circumstances. 
While Mrs V will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman