DRN-3626719
The complaint
Mrs Ps representative has complained, on her behalf, that when she began paying into the 
Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution (TAVC) arrangement administered by The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited, it didnt make her adequately aware of the 
possibility of instead buying added years within the main Teachers Pension Scheme 
(TPS). 
What happened
Prudential hasnt been able to provide any point of sale documentation, but according to the 
contribution history, it seems that Mrs P began contributing to the TAVC arrangement in 
October 1996. Mrs P was a teacher, and had been a member of the main scheme since 
1970. According to the contribution history, Mrs P began contributing £163 pm, which later 
increased steadily up to £189 pm, according to Mrs P in line with salary increases. But this 
then decreased to around £40 pm in December 2000 until contributions ceased in December 
2006. Mrs P retired in 2007.
In July 2021, Mrs Ps representative complained on the above basis, saying that there was 
no sales documentation which confirmed that a know your client process had been 
undertaken, and that there was no record of Mrs Ps income requirement in retirement and 
whether this would be met by her prospective guaranteed scheme income.
Prudential declined to uphold the complaint, noting that Mrs P used the TAVC fund value to 
buy an annuity when she retired in 2007, and that more than six years had passed since 
then, during which it had had no contact from Mrs P about the arrangement.
It therefore didnt think that it would be able to investigate the complaint, but it did offer 
further detail about what it considered would have happened in 1996. It said that, when Mrs 
P joined the TPS, she would have been given all the documentation explaining its terms and 
conditions. The TPS booklet was also given to her and this showed the three options 
available to her to increase her scheme benefits  buying added years, making TAVCs, or 
establishing a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) policy.
The TPS booklet also explained that the TAVC investment returns werent guaranteed, 
Prudential said. Further, its representative was only allowed to provide advice on the TAVC 
option, it added.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mrs Ps representative referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators assessed the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld, 
saying the following in summary:
He firstly said that the complaint had been made in time, as at the time of annuitizing 
in 2007, it was unlikely that the adviser would have discussed the alternative option 
of buying added years in 1996  rather they would have focused on Mrs Ps annuity 
options at that time. He was satisfied that Mrs P would only reasonably have had 
awareness of potential cause for complaint when she spoke to her sister about her 
own TAVC policy review which was offered by Prudential in 2018 - and this was 
therefore when the three year period for Mrs P to raise a complaint and have it 
considered by this service started running.
As to the merits of the case, he firstly noted that comparison had been drawn 
between Mrs Ps case and her sisters, with the latter having been paid 
compensation. But he said that each case would be decided its own merits.
He agreed with Prudential that Mrs P would have been provided with a scheme 
booklet when joining the TPS, and that this would have explained the various options 
she had to increase her pension provision, including buying added years.
The Prudential representative was only able to advise on Prudential products, and it 
only needed to make Mrs P aware of the option of added years and refer her to the 
TPS booklet or scheme for further information on this. It didnt need to say whether 
added years would have been of benefit to her, nor did it need to do a price 
comparison. It would then be for Mrs P to decide which option to choose.
He thought it was more likely than not that Prudential had made Mrs P aware of the 
option of buying added years.
The investment returns from the TAVC policy may not have met expectations over 
the years, and Mrs P may now consider that buying added years would have been 
the better option, but the case couldnt be considered with the benefit of hindsight.
Mrs Ps representative disagreed, however, saying the following:
It referred to a separate case decided by this service, which had been upheld, and 
appeared to contradict the investigators comments.
Mrs Ps circumstances were identical to her sisters, and there was historical 
evidence to suggest that Prudentials sales practices werent sufficiently robust.
Prudential was required to check that Mrs P had received the information from the 
TPS and to tick a box to confirm that she was aware of the added years option. If 
Prudential couldnt provide this, then the balance of probability was that the 
document wasnt provided to, or signed by, Mrs P.
Prudential needed to advise Mrs P that an alternative to the TAVC was available, but 
it couldnt evidence that this had happened.
It disagreed that, on balance, it was more likely than not that Prudential had made 
Mrs P aware of the added years option  especially in the absence of the required 
signed forms.
This was a common issue which had resulted in Prudential needing to amend its 
sales practices.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view on the matter, reiterating that each 
case was considered on its own merits. She further said that, due to the passage of time 
since Mrs P started making TAVCs, this service wouldnt require Prudential to provide 
evidence of what had been discussed.
Mrs Ps representative replied, saying that in the absence of the point of sale documentation, 
it couldnt safely be concluded that it had made Mrs P adequately aware of her options.As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view is that it is of course impossible to know whether Mrs P was made 
aware of the option to buy added years in the scheme, or whether Prudential referred her to 
the TPS for further information on that option.
And in the absence of information which would confirm the positive position of Prudentials 
adviser having done what they needed to do here, I have some sympathy with the objection 
of Mrs Ps representative to an assumption that it did.
Such cases need to be decided on the balance of probability, but where its impossible to 
demonstrate that such a positive affirmation of Mrs Ps options was made here, I think it 
would be difficult to fairly or reasonably conclude that it was.
I think its fair to say that Mrs P would more likely than not have received information about 
enhancing her pension benefits by way of a scheme booklet or other documentation when 
she first joined in 1970. But this was around 26 years before the events which took place 
here. Had Mrs P met with the Prudential representative a short time after receiving the 
scheme information, I might be more inclined to consider that the options available would be 
fresh in her mind. But thats not realistically the position here.
But even if I were to conclude that it was more likely than not that Prudential hadnt made 
Mrs P sufficiently aware of the option of buying added years, in order to uphold the complaint 
Id still need to be satisfied that, armed with such knowledge, Mrs P would more likely than 
not have chosen that route.
And so Ive thought more about Mrs Ps circumstances at that time. She was approximately 
50 years old, and was initially contributing around £163 pm, which Mrs P recalls increased in 
line with later salary increases  as is borne out by the contribution history.
But this then reduced markedly down to around £40 in December 2000, and remained at 
that level until Mrs P retired. In answer to the investigators question as to why this 
happened, Mrs P has said that this may have been around the time that her husband 
became self employed and finances became stretched.
Generally speaking, whilst I think that, as a teacher who was perhaps  26 years into her 
teaching career  Mrs P was more likely than not to remain in the same profession until 
retirement, and so who would on the face of it have been a credible candidate for buying 
added years, added years are nevertheless best suited to those who are able to sustain the 
required payments until retirement. 
My understanding is that (under current TPS rules), if the full added years payments to 
which a member committed at the outset arent made by the time of retirement, the member 
has the choice of either receiving a paid up credit for the contributions already made, or to 
pay the outstanding amounts to receive the benefit of the added years. It seems unlikely, 
given Mrs Ps much reduced contribution level when she ceased making the TAVCs, that 
she would have been in a position to make up any missed added years contributions when 
she retired. And so its possible, albeit not certain, that even if the complaint was upheld, a 
redress calculation might in any case produce a no loss outcome.It's fair to say that, at the time of beginning TAVCs, Mrs P wouldnt necessarily have 
anticipated needing to reduce her contributions over time due to straitened financial 
circumstances. But if the possibility of buying added years had been fairly brought to Mrs Ps 
attention in 1996, this would nevertheless have been a consideration for her. And I think its 
reasonable to suppose that the requirement for that kind of commitment, as opposed to the 
flexibility offered by the TAVCs  and upon which Mrs P later capitalised  would have been 
a contributing factor in her decision making at the time. This might reasonably especially be 
the case where the continuation of such contributions would be dependent upon the income 
 and financial co-dependency - of a spouse.
Its not possible for me to know with certainty what Mrs P would have decided in 1996. And I 
do think this is quite finely balanced. But in order to uphold the complaint, I think I would 
need to be persuaded that it was more likely than not that Mrs P would have opted for the 
commitment of the alternative option - added years - as opposed to the flexibility offered by 
the TAVCs  and, as noted by the investigator, the returns which were expected of money 
purchase arrangements at the time, which I think would also reasonably have been a 
consideration, with over ten years remaining until retirement.
On the basis of the available evidence, I dont think that I can fairly or reasonably conclude 
that Mrs P would more likely than not have opted for added years  or that I can in any case 
say with confidence, given the later significant contribution reduction, that this would have 
worked out to be in her best interests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman