DRN-4014790
The complaint
Mr L complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams), trading as Jacomo, 
irresponsibly granted him a catalogue shopping account he says he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr L entered into an agreement with J D Williams to have access to credit by 
way of a Jacomo catalogue shopping account with an opening credit limit of £200. There 
followed a series of six credit limit increases, beginning in June 2019 with an increase to 
£300 and ending in December 2020 with a credit limit increase up to £1,750. The account 
went into default and so was later passed to a third-party collection agency.
Mr L says J D Williams didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the 
account and shouldnt have granted him the account and further credit when it allowed him 
further credit limit increases. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
J D Williams at first made an offer to refund Mr L all the interest and charges he incurred as 
a result of his credit limit being increased in December 2020. But after reviewing the 
complaint further it offered to refund all interest and charges added to the account after 
August 2019, when the credit limit was increased from £400 to £600. Our adjudicator looked 
into the complaint and thought the offer was fair. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this and so requested that his complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
J D Williams has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that J D Williams failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Mr L with credit. I note that Mr L has told us about  
having a previous county court judgment registered against him, although I havent seen any 
details about that. Even so, I dont think better enquiries would necessarily have caused 
J D Williams to think the initial credit limit might have been unaffordable. I say this because 
the initial credit limit of £200 was modest and so the maximum monthly payments for that 
credit would also have been relatively modest. 
For the short period between the first two credit limit increases I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr L was having difficulty with the account. I see he was making payments 
above the minimum requested by J D Williams and continued to do so up to around 
November 2020, before missing his first payment. I have also noted the bank statements 
Mr L has provided which shows that at Mr L was generally managing his day-to-day living 
costs and other committed expenditure well. So I agree that the first two increases to Mr Ls 
credit limit dont suggest irresponsible lending by J D Williams.
I have also seen that Mr Ls monthly income from his job dropped significantly between 
May and June 2019. And I understand that Mr L unfortunately lost his job in 
November 2020. I dont think the change in Mr Ls income is something that would 
necessarily have been apparent to J D Williams in the early months of the spending on the 
account. But the consequences of a reduction in his regular monthly income, followed 
several months later by losing his job, does suggest that Mr Ls financial situation was at risk 
of becoming increasingly stretched as time went on. The first missed payment in 
November 2020 also suggests that by then this was having an impact on his ability to 
manage his credit commitments. 
It follows that I agree with our adjudicator that J D Williamss updated decision to refund all 
interest and charges incurred on the account after August 2019 is fair. 
I have also considered the offer of redress that J D Williams has made. My understanding is 
that it has been made in line with the redress we typically ask J D Williams to pay and 
reflects the particular circumstances of the account. Mr L is unhappy that J D Williams hasnt 
removed the default or other adverse information from his account. But our general 
approach to cases like this is to require adverse information to only be removed from a credit 
file once the outstanding account balance has been cleared. This is fair and reasonable 
given that the Mr L has already had the benefit of the money he spent. I havent seen reason 
for me to ask J D Williams to depart from that approach in Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L has also raised concerns about the refund of £520.26 he has been offered. 
J D Williams is well aware of our approach to redress in these cases when refunding interest 
and account charges. I havent seen details of its refund calculation but think it would be 
reasonable for J D Williams to provide Mr L with a breakdown of it if he requests it. 
It follows that I consider J D Williamss offer to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im sorry that Im not able to help Mr L further on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I am not upholding this complaint as I dont consider that  
J D Williams & Company Limited needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman