DRN-3234840
The complaint
Mr C complains about Erudio Student Loans Limiteds decision to terminate his student loan
account.
What happened
Mr C had a student loan in the 1990s. Mr Cs loan is one that can be deferred if the relevant 
criteria are met. Mr C has met the criteria to defer his loan repayments for a number of 
years. 
In 2020, Erudio decided to terminate Mr Cs loan account because they said they had not 
received the relevant forms from Mr C in order to defer his loan. 
Mr C complained to Erudio. Erudio said in response that they had written to Mr C to explain 
what hed need to do to defer his loan in 2020. Theyd received copies of payslips from him 
by email but had replied to explain hed need to also complete a deferment form  which 
they said they didnt receive. 
As Mr C wasnt happy with this response, he referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered what had happened. He said, in summary, he didnt think Erudio had 
treated Mr C unfairly because theyd followed the correct process and Mr C hadnt sent them 
the information they required. 
Mr C didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said 2020 and the pandemic was a very 
difficult time for him and his mental health had suffered. For these reasons, he felt Erudio 
should not have terminated his loan without contacting him by phone to explain what was 
needed. 
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each year, if the account holder wants to defer their student loan payments, they must make
a new application. If an application isnt made or the account holder is no longer eligible to
defer their loan  payments become due under the original loan agreement. And if payments
arent then made, the agreement can be terminated. Mr C is aware of the requirements of
the deferral process. Hes told us hes been deferring this loan for 20 years.
I can see Erudio wrote to Mr C in March 2020 to invite him to make his deferment application
online. And they wrote again to Mr C in April 2020 to remind him about his deferment
application and enclosed a paper copy of the form for Mr C to return.
Mr C sent copies of his payslips by email to Erudio in June 2020. Erudio replied in July 2020
to acknowledge receipt of the payslips but said they hadnt received a deferment form from
him. Mr C says he didnt receive this email from Erudio. But Im satisfied, based on the
evidence Ive seen, that Erudio sent it and it looks like they replied directly to Mr Cs email.
So while its not clear why Mr C didnt receive it  I dont think I can fairly say this was
because Erudio made a mistake.
As Ive mentioned, Mr C had been deferring his loan for a long time so I think its fair to say
he was familiar with the process and acknowledged that although he hadnt submitted the
required form  he feels Erudio should have just accepted his payslips to process his
deferment application. But Erudio werent refusing to accept emails from Mr C  they just
also required him to complete a deferral form, which he hadnt done.
I understand Mr Cs circumstances were difficult in 2020. He was bereaved, caring for other
ill relatives and as a result, his mental health suffered. It doesnt look like Mr C made Erudio
aware of these circumstances at the time.
Im sorry to hear how difficult things have been for Mr C and his family and I can see our 
Investigator asked Erudio if theyd be willing to reconsider their decision in light of what Mr C 
had told us. They said they werent willing to do so and this is a decision for them. And, as 
difficult as Mr Cs circumstances were and while I appreciate the hard time he was 
experiencing, that doesnt mean Erudio has made a mistake. Particularly as they werent 
made aware of the difficulties Mr C was having at the time. 
I can see Erudio had offered Mr C the option to complete the deferral online when they wrote
to him in March 2020 and in later letters. So although Mr C says he didnt have access to a
printer, I dont think its likely he wouldve needed this as he couldve completed the 
application online. 
After the deferment period ended, Erudio sent letters to Mr C in June, July and August 2020
to explain payments were due as they had not received a deferment application from him.
Each letter also explained what Mr C needed to do in order to apply for deferment if he still
wanted to and that the account was at risk of termination if they didnt hear from him. And in
September 2020, Erudio sent a default notice to Mr C. Mr C says he didnt receive these
letters, but Im satisfied they were sent and to the correct address. So I find Erudio took the
appropriate steps to contact Mr C before making the decision to terminate his account in 
October 2020.
Finally, Mr C feels Erudio shouldve contacted him by phone before terminating his account.
But there was no obligation for them to do so and Ive already explained above that they
contacted Mr C in other ways as Id expect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman