DRN-3575988
The complaint
Miss B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim she
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss B booked a trip to a country Ill call S. She was due to travel between
12 and 19 September 2020. In December 2019, she took out an InsureFor travel insurance
policy through a broker to cover her trip.
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised
against all but essential travel to S as a result of Covid-19. On 4 July 2020, the FCDO
included S in a list of countries which were exempt from the FCDO advice against travel.
This was known as a travel corridor.
However, on 26 July 2020, the FCDO removed S from the travel corridor list. This meant it
was no longer exempt from FCDO advice against all but essential travel. And travellers
returning from S were legally required to self-isolate. The FCDO advice remained in place at
the time Miss B was due to travel and so she wasnt able to travel as planned. Her airline
cancelled her flight and refunded the airfare. But Miss B incurred full cancellation charges for
the cost of her accommodation, so she made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
Ageas turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims which arose
because of the prohibitive regulations of any government. It considered that the FCDO
advice fell within the scope of this exclusion clause. So it said the claim wasnt covered.
Miss B was unhappy with Ageas decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He felt the main reason Miss
Bs trip had been cancelled was because of the change in FCDO advice. The investigator
accepted that the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. But he
noted that the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against
FCDO advice. This meant Miss B wouldnt have been covered if shed travelled and she
wouldnt be covered if shed cancelled. The investigator didnt think the policy terms made
the combined effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Miss B had been aware
that she wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed before she travelled, she wouldve
been unlikely to take out the policy.
The investigator considered the exclusion clause Ageas had referred to. But he didnt think
the FCDO advice could be treated as a government regulation. Thats because it didnt carry
any legal force. And he noted that neither the UK nor the part of S that Miss B had been due
to travel to was under government-imposed lockdown at the point shed been due to travel.
So he didnt think this exclusion applied to the circumstances of Miss Bs claim. Overall, he
felt it would be fair for Ageas to assess Miss Bs claim in line with the terms and conditions of
the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought itd been fair for Ageas to turn down Miss Bs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Miss Bs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Ageas
treated her fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Miss B found herself was completely unprecedented
and outside of her control. I also understand, that when the insurance was purchased in
December 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have
been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Ageas obligations under its contract with Miss B are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Miss Bs policy says that Ageas will pay for a policyholders unused travel and
accommodation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific
insured events. The Cancellation and Curtailment section of Miss Bs policy, set out on
page 6, says Ageas will pay such costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury. Illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any Impending
redundancy at the time this policy was Issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or
fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your
home; or
6. you, or any person you Intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee
being ordered to return to duty.
Theres no dispute that Miss Bs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This
means her claim isnt covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of her policy.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Miss Bs policy wouldnt have provided cover if
shed travelled against FCDO advice. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt
think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy
provisions relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against
FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim
outside of the policy terms and conditions.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Ageas to do so here. I
say that because I note that the cancellation section of Miss Bs policy includes a specific list
of things Ageas doesnt cover. This list includes the following term:claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
This exclusion is also set out in the What is not Insured section of the Insurance Product
Information Document.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Miss Bs claim. But on 26
July 2020, S was removed from the FCDOs travel corridor list. This meant it was no longer
exempt from FCDO advice against all but essential travel. And this meant that Miss B
wouldve needed to isolate for 14 days upon her return to the UK if shed travelled. Failure to
quarantine could result in legal penalties.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Miss Bs holiday not covered as listed,
insured events under her policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply
to the circumstances of her claim anyway. Thats because the requirement to quarantine
was a regulation imposed by the UK government and was legally enforceable.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I dont currently think her claim is covered under the
terms and conditions of her policy. So I dont think there are any reasonable grounds
upon which I could fairly ask Ageas to accept her claim. This means I currently think it
was fair for Ageas to turn down the claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional submissions they wished to make.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision.
Miss B disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised her response:
The government had issued guidance which said that whether travel was essential or 
not was a personal decision and it was for individuals to make an informed decision, 
based on FCDO advice and the risks. Itd directed individuals to check the validity of 
their travel insurance;
She didnt think the advice from the government could be construed as being 
prohibitive, because if someone could find transport, they could still travel to their 
destination. And the government had given a clear message that returning to the UK 
could be difficult;
Miss B had checked her policy terms and ultimately had learned that if shed travelled 
or not, her policy would be invalidated. She didnt think this was fair and reasonable;
The cancellation section of the policy covered cancellation due to quarantine. So she 
felt she was specifically covered, as quarantine regulations were in force for people 
returning from S at that time. It had been fair and reasonable to cancel travel 
arrangements when these mandatory quarantine requirements had been in place;
The purpose of travel insurance is to protect against unexpected circumstances and 
in that week; the FCDO had issued over 430 changes of advice;
She felt it was crystal clear why thered been a claim  shed been advised by the 
government not to travel to a destination; advised she might be stuck there; with 
mandatory quarantine restrictions upon returning home; in addition to flights being 
cancelled and the Covid-19 pandemic entering into a new phase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, I still think it was fair for Ageas to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
As I set out above, Ageas has set out the listed, specific events its chosen to cover and not 
to cover in the terms of the insurance contract. Whilst I accept that quarantine is a specific 
insured event under the cancellation section of the policy, I dont think that I could fairly find 
that Miss B cancelled her holiday because shed been placed in quarantine ahead of travel. 
She hadnt been directed to remain strictly at home to self-isolate because she was unwell or 
in a government-mandated quarantine facility before she was due to take the trip. In my 
view, a requirement to quarantine following the completion of a trip isnt something which 
can reasonably be treated as covered by this section of the policy.
Instead, it seems Miss B chose to cancel her trip, in part, because she didnt want to 
quarantine upon her return to the UK from S. This simply isnt covered by the cancellation 
section of the policy. Neither does the cancellation section include cover for claims which 
arise because of flight cancellations or the potential for difficulty in returning to the UK. And 
as Ive explained, given the mandatory quarantine restrictions which wouldve applied to 
Miss B upon her return to the UK had she travelled to S, and the legal force those 
restrictions held, I still find them to have been a prohibitive government regulation. 
Prohibitive government regulations are clearly excluded by the terms of Miss Bs contract 
with Ageas.
I do have a great deal of sympathy with Miss Bs position, as I appreciate she was unable to 
travel for reasons beyond her control and because shes been left out of pocket as a result. I 
also understand the government wasnt actively stopping people from travelling abroad and 
that travel advice was constantly changing. But in these circumstances, I simply dont think 
that Ageas acted unfairly when it concluded that Miss Bs situation wasnt covered by the 
policy terms. And I still find that there are no reasonable grounds upon which I could direct 
Ageas to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman