DRN-2353992
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Tesco Personal Finance Limited sent him an inaccurate no claims 
discount (NCD) certificate concerning his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a policy with Tesco which had nine-years NCD. After another claim free year Mr B 
applied for a policy with another insurer. When he did so he told the new insurer that he had 
ten years NCD. Mr B was concerned that Tesco sent him an NCD certificate which said he 
had nine - rather than ten - years NCD.
Mr B complained to Tesco via an online complaints referral service. Tesco didn't reply and 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Tesco had done anything wrong. Mr B didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs raised a number of points. But I don't intend to address 
each of those individually and instead will focus on what I see as being the key issue at the 
heart of Mr Bs complaint.
I can understand why Mr B had concerns. Hed told his new insurer hed earned ten years 
NCD but Tesco had said he had nine. And he was concerned that his new insurer might 
think hed misrepresented his NCD entitlement and cancel his policy. But I don't think Tesco 
did anything wrong. Thats because, like most insurers, Tesco puts a cap on the maximum 
number of NCD years it will allow. In Tesco's case thats nine years. So at the end of a policy 
year, or when a policy is cancelled or lapses, generally Tesco won't say that a policyholder 
has accrued more than nine years NCD. This isn't an unusual practice, and it's common for 
the process to be automated. And, given that its factually accurate, because the insurer 
concerned hasn't allowed more NCD years than its maximum - we don't think its unfair.
That said, if a customer contacts an insurer in these circumstances then there are things the 
insurer can do to prevent any problems later on. And, as long as theres no dispute that the 
NCD years have accrued above the maximum, we think it's fair for the insurer to issue a 
revised NCD certificate showing the actual number of years of claims free driving. Im 
pleased to see that, while the complaint has been with us for our consideration, Tesco has 
issued Mr B with such a letter. And while I recognise that process was delayed I don't think 
Tesco needs to take any further action. 
I note Mr Bs confirmed his new insurer allows up to 20 years NCD, so potentially he could 
have lost out on an NCD year if Tesco hadn't issued a revised certificate. But Tesco did 
issue the revised certificate and I've seen no evidence to show that Mr B lost out. So I don't 
think Tesco needs to do anything else to put things right.
Further, I note Mr B was unhappy that Tesco didn't initially reply to his complaint. Mr Bs 
shown us evidence that he raised his complaint through a well-known complaint referral 
service. But Tesco has no record of receiving it. It's said that if it had it would have issued an 
acknowledgement email through an automated process. But it didn't issue the automated 
acknowledgement. So I accept its evidence that it didn't receive the complaint initially. But I 
don't know why that was, and whether or not it was an issue with Tescos system or if a fault 
lay elsewhere. However, once we contacted it Tesco responded promptly to both us and to 
Mr B. And it eventually issued the correct certificate. And while that was delayed I think that 
was reasonable action to take in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman