DRN-3333458
The complaint
Miss B and Mr B complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B and Mr B planned to take an 11-month backpacking trip. On 13 September 2019, 
they took out a travel insurance policy to provide cover between 12 October 2019 and 12 
September 2020. They travelled abroad as planned on 12 October 2019.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
advised against all but essential travel to the country Miss B and Mr B were staying in (which 
was in lockdown). And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to 
return to the UK. 
Miss B and Mr B called AXAs assistance line on 25 March 2020 to ask whether a 
curtailment claim would be covered and they say they were told the cost of their return flights 
would be met. They paid for a flight back to the UK and returned on 27 March 2020. They 
made a claim for the cost of their return flights.
AXA turned down the claim. It said that the curtailment section of the policy provided cover 
for a policyholders unused travel and accommodation costs and reasonable additional travel 
costs. In this case, Miss B and Mr B hadnt had a return flight to the UK booked before they 
departed on their trip. So AXA said theyd always have had to pay for a return flight 
regardless of when they returned to the UK.
Miss B and Mr B were unhappy with AXAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. In particular, they said that when they took out the policy, theyd been told that 
they didnt need pre-booked return flights in order to be covered by the contract. And they 
said AXAs assistance line had told them that their return flights would be covered by the 
curtailment section of the policy.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. As Miss B and Mr B didnt have 
a pre-booked return flight booked at the time they curtailed their trip; she didnt think the 
costs of the return flight they booked was covered by the policy terms. She felt that policy 
eligibility wasnt dependent on having a pre-booked UK-return flight. And she considered that 
if Miss B and Mr B had had unused travel and accommodation costs which theyd lost out on 
at the point theyd cut short their trip, these wouldve been covered.
Miss B and Mr B disagreed. In summary, they said the policy wording didnt stipulate that 
return flights were required in order to make the policy valid. They couldve been planning to 
travel back via land. They felt that if pre-booked flights were required, then the policy 
shouldnt have been branded as a backpacker policy. They felt the assistance line shouldve 
told them that the cost of their return flight wasnt covered. And they said the policy didnt set 
out what AXA considered to be an additional travel expense, so they questioned whether 
any costs incurred during curtailment wouldve ever been covered.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss B and Mr B, I think it was fair for AXA to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the policy terms, and the circumstances of Miss B and Mr Bs complaint, to decide 
whether AXA handled their claim fairly. 
I appreciate Miss B and Mr B took out a specialist backpacker policy, which was intended to 
provide cover for longer-term trips and which offered cover which was more tailored to a 
backpacking trip. However, this doesnt mean that AXAs required to pay all claims which are 
made during a backpacking trip. The cover AXA provides is set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. 
So Ive turned to consider the terms and conditions of the policy, which form the basis of the 
contract between Miss B and Mr B. 
Were Miss B and Mr B eligible for the policy?
Miss B and Mr B are concerned that as they didnt have return flights to the UK booked, they 
werent eligible for the policy. Ive carefully considered the policy terms and the only eligibility 
criteria which is set out is that a policyholder must not be aged 51 or over. Theres no 
requirement for a policyholder to have pre-booked a return flight before they travel in order to 
be covered by the policy at all. This means that Miss B and Mr B were eligible to make 
claims on the policy and theres nothing to indicate that AXA wouldnt have covered (for 
example) a valid medical expenses claim, or baggage claim, had it been made during the 
period of cover.
Was it fair for AXA to turn down the claim?
Theres no dispute that Miss B and Mr B seem to have planned to return to the UK in 
September 2020. However, as a result of the unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19, they had to cut short their trip broadly six months earlier than theyd planned. This 
means I think it was appropriate for AXA to consider the claim in line with the Cancellation 
or curtailment charges section of the policy. This provides the following cover:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed before completion as a 
result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other 
regulatory authority in the country you are in recommending evacuation from the country or 
specific area you have travelled to providing the advice came into force after you left the 
United Kingdom to commence the trip.
In this case, theres no dispute that Miss B and Mr B cut short their trip because the FCDO 
advised UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. However, I think AXA has made it clear 
that it will only cover unused travel or accommodation costs (and other pre-paid charges) and reasonable additional travel expenses incurred in the curtailment of a trip.
Miss B and Mr B havent claimed for any unused travel or accommodation costs. Theyve 
been clear that theyre only claiming for the return flight they purchased in March 2020, 
whilst they were abroad. Its common ground that Miss B and Mr B hadnt pre-booked a 
return flight before they travelled and were unsure of where theyd be returning from. What 
this means then is that Miss B and Mr B would always have needed to pay for a new return 
flight to the UK, whenever they returned, at their own cost. They didnt lose out on the cost of 
a return flight theyd booked prior to leaving the UK in October 2019. While the flight they 
ultimately took cost them more than they believe theyd have paid to return in September 
2020 if travel hadnt been disrupted by Covid-19, they hadnt paid for it before they travelled 
and neither was it unused.
I acknowledge that AXA hasnt defined what it means by an additional travel cost. However, 
in such cases, Id generally consider the plain and natural meaning of a word or phrase. In 
my view, an additional travel cost is a cost a policyholders had to pay over and above their 
original, pre-booked travel cost, in order to curtail their trip. Such a cost might be a 
replacement flight or a flight amendment fee. Here though, Miss B and Mr B hadnt 
purchased a return flight before they travelled. So they didnt pay anything in addition to their 
actual return flight in order to get back to the UK. As such then, I dont think I could fairly 
consider their return flight costs to be an additional travel cost.
Overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to conclude that Miss B and Mr Bs return 
flight costs werent covered by the curtailment section of the policy.
AXAs assistance line
Both sides agree that Miss B and Mr B got in touch with AXA before returning to the UK. 
Miss B and Mr B say that they were told their curtailment claim would be covered, even 
though theyd been clear that they didnt have a pre-booked return flight. Its possible that the 
call handler did incorrectly tell Miss B and Mr B that the cost of their flights would be paid. 
And I dont doubt how frustrating it wouldve been to learn that this was not the case.
However, I need to think about whether any error by AXA caused Miss B and Mr B to lose 
out. And I dont think it did. Thats because once the FCDO advised UK nationals to return 
home and countries around the world imposed lockdown, I think Miss B and Mr B would 
most likely always have opted to return to the UK even if theyd known their flight costs 
werent covered. And if theyd opted to remain abroad until the FCDO advice and lockdowns 
were lifted, I think its unlikely the policy wouldve covered the additional accommodation 
costs theyd have likely incurred during this period. Id add too that had Miss B and Mr B 
claimed for any of their pre-booked onward flights (to other destinations) or any pre-booked 
accommodation, these likely wouldve been covered by the curtailment section of the policy.
In summary, despite my sympathy with Miss B and Mr Bs position, I think AXA acted fairly 
when it turned down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman