DRN-4013621
The complaint
Mr C complains AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has said it will only partially settle a claim he 
made for treatment under his policy.
What happened
Mr C holds a private medical policy underwritten by AXA PPP. 
In 2022 he was suffering with pain in his shoulders, and was referred to an orthopaedic 
surgeon  Dr W - for a consultation and possible surgery. 
Mr Cs policy sets out the following terms around cover for medical practitioners fees. 
Does my plan cover the full fees charged by specialists?
If your treatment is covered, we will pay different amounts depending on what kind of 
arrangement you have with your specialist.
Fee-approved specialist. Using a fee-approved specialist gives you maximum 
reassurance, as we pay all their fees. If you use our Fast Track Appointments 
service, and you would like us to book your appointment for you we will book 
it with a fee-approved specialist. 
Fee-limited specialist. Your may need to pay some costs yourself. 
Specialists we do not pay for. We do not pay any of their costs.
Fee-limited specialists  what we pay 
We still pay fee-limited specialists, but you may also need to pay some costs 
yourself. 
So long as your treatment is covered, and a GP or dentist refers you, we will still pay 
some of the fees for a fee-limited specialist. However we will only pay up to the 
amount we show in the schedule of procedures and fees. This means that you will 
probably need to pay something towards the cost of your treatment. 
Mr C called AXA PPP about his referral. AXA PPP said the surgeon he had been referred to 
was a fee-limited specialist, which meant the full cost of treatment with him wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. It told Mr C the amounts it would pay up to for a fee-limited 
specialist and offered to assist Mr C in finding an alternative surgeon whose fees would be 
fully covered. 
Mr C contacted AXA PPP again to confirm he would be undergoing surgery with Dr W, and 
provided a procedure code. AXA PPP confirmed how much it would pay towards the 
treatment, and this was considerably less than the total fees.  
Mr C complained and said he thought it unfair that AXA PPP wouldnt pay the full costs.  
AXA PPP said this was because Dr W was not a fee-approved specialist, rather he was 
considered fee-limited, so the costs were not covered in full under the policy.
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they didnt think AXA PPP had 
acted unfairly in its settlement of the claim. 
AXA PPP made no comment on the investigators view. However Mr C disagreed. In 
summary he said he felt he was being penalised because the medical practitioner he used 
has higher charges than some others. He thought the same amount should be covered for 
both fee-approved and fee-limited practitioners. And said he should be able to choose the 
specialist he wanted to use. 
As Mr C asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say AXA PPP has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, Im satisfied AXA PPP hasnt acted unfairly in its assessment of the claim. 
And Ill explain why. 
Having reviewed the policy terms, Im satisfied that as the practitioner Mr C chose to use 
was not one of AXA PPPs fee-approved specialists, but rather he is considered a fee-
limited specialist, AXA PPP is only required to pay the claim on the basis of a fee-limited 
specialist as set out in its schedule of fees. 
AXA PPP has provided recordings of the conversations it had with Mr C prior to him going 
ahead with the procedure. These evidence it explained clearly to Mr C that the fees for a 
procedure with Dr W would not be covered in full, from when he first called. It also offered to 
assist him in finding an alternative practitioner who was fee-approved. And this is what I 
would expect an insurer to do in these circumstances. 
Once Mr C was able to provide the procedure code to AXA PPP, it told him exactly how 
much of the costs would be covered by the policy. This call took place before Mr C went 
ahead with his procedure, so I think he was able to make an informed decision about what 
he wanted to do, knowing how much of the costs would be paid by AXA PPP. 
Whilst I appreciate the reasons Mr C has given for wanting to have treatment with his 
preferred medical practitioner, this doesnt change my mind that AXA PPP wasnt required to 
cover the costs in full. Dr W is a fee-limited specialist, and the policy terms set out that the 
policyholder may be required to pay some of the costs.
Ive noted Mr Cs points about the differing costs AXA PPP pays for a fee-approved 
specialist and that these are higher than those payable for a fee-limited specialist. However 
the amount which is payable is set within the Schedule of Procedures and Fees within the 
policy terms. These form the basis of AXA PPPs contract with Mr C. And Im satisfied AXA 
PPP is entitled to pay the claim in accordance with those terms. It's not for this service to dictate the level of cover an insurer should offer within its policies. 
Im satisfied the terms of the policy in this area are set out clearly. And in incepting the 
policy, Mr C has accepted those terms. Should it be the case that he believes the policy no 
longer meets his needs or doesnt represent good value for money, he may wish to contact 
AXA PPP about cancelling it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman