DRN-3691933
The complaint
Ms M complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a catalogue 
account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In June 2010, Ms M successfully applied for a credit account with Next. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £300. A number of credit limit increases and also reductions were later 
applied to the account. In June 2017 the credit limit was increased £3,000 to £5000. 
Ms M complained to Next to say that, whilst she was able to manage the credit for the first 
few years, it became unaffordable from 2016, and in particular when Next increased her 
credit limit to £5,000 in June 2017. She says this led to her financial situation deteriorating. 
Miss M began missing payments in April 2018. She settled and closed the account in 
November 2018. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint as she thought Ms M appeared to have 
been managing her account without getting into difficulty. 
As Ms M didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Ms complaint is that Next made the account unaffordable for her when it increased 
her credit limit to £5,000 in June 2017. But I think its important that I also consider how 
the account came to be granted, so Ive also looked at the account opening.
Before providing credit, and also before it increased her credit limits, Next says it carried 
out credit checks to decide on the amount of credit it was able to offer. Next told us that 
Ms Ms account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check information and 
that credit limits were set using that information and also its observation of Ms Ms 
management of the account. Its certainly possible that Nexts checks at the time of the 
account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they might have been. But even so, 
from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next to think the 
relatively modest credit limit of £300 was unaffordable.
Going forwards, Ive seen that Ms M made monthly payments that were in the main at the 
minimum payment level. Ive also seen that in 2014 she incurred three late payment fees, 
when her account balance was ranging between £300 and £500. But I dont think I can 
say that this necessarily shows that Ms M was experiencing significant financial difficulty. 
In particular, I cant see that Ms M was ultimately unable to make any of the monthly 
payments that were due during this time. 
Ms M sent us some bank statements to review for the three months before the credit limit 
increase. Ive looked through these and agree with our adjudicator that, taking into 
account her regular outgoings and living expenses, a credit limit increase from £3,000 to 
£5,000 may not have been affordable for her if she was spending over the level of the 
previous credit limit increase. But at the time of the increase her account balance was 
around £1,400. Whilst the way Ms M was managing her account meant that it was 
necessary to suspend the account for three months following this increase, this is unlikely 
to have been due to the limit increase itself. 
I think when granting any credit limit increases it would have been sensible for Next to 
carry out proportionate checks to make sure that Ms Ms financial situation was such that 
she could afford each increase. But on the particular facts of this complaint, I think 
whether the credit limit increase to £5,000 was reasonable or otherwise is something that 
is less relevant. I say that because financial redress is designed to put someone back in 
the position as if the failing had not happened. In this case Ms Ms use of her credit 
reached its highest level in May 2018, being £1,650, when her available credit limit was 
£3,000. So even were I to think the June 2017 £5,000 credit increase was unreasonable, 
there would not be any redress to pay. This is because Ms M has suffered no detriment as 
a result of the actions of Next. And from what Ive seen Ms M was able to make regular 
payments to the account and only used just over half of the available credit limit. 
So, having considered all the available evidence and information, Ive have seen 
insufficient evidence to think that more thorough affordability checks would have led Next 
to think that the credit limits it provided Ms M were unreasonable  and in particular the 
increase to £5,000. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms M was managing her 
account ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Ms M will be disappointed with my decision and Im sorry to hear about the 
difficult personal circumstances shes had to deal with in recent years. But I would like to 
reassure her I have looked into all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I 
have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman