DRN-3857414
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund money she says she sent from her 
account as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2022 Mrs K wrote to Barclays. She alleged that two payments that shed made 
from her account were as a result of a multi-layered investment scam. One of the payments 
had taken place in 2013 and the other in 2019. 
Barclays responded to say that they couldnt investigate the 2013 payment as it had been 
made more than six years earlier. And for the 2019 payment, they said theyd queried this at 
the time and declined to offer a refund. However, Barclays did pay £150 compensation for 
some service issues surrounding a delay in responding to the complaint.
Mrs K remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators didnt think we could consider all of her complaint. She said the complaint 
about the 2013 payment was out of our jurisdiction as it had been made too late. And she 
didnt recommend that the complaint about the 2019 payment should be upheld. Mrs K 
disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that I cant consider a complaint about 
the 2013 payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs K, so Ill explain why. Mrs K has made 
detailed submissions in relation to her complaint. Ive read and considered everything shes 
sent in. So if I dont comment on a particular point, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to comment on it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
The payment in question was an international payment for around $28,700 that was 
instructed in branch on 29 January 2019  at the time this represented around £22,400. It 
doesnt seem to be in dispute that this payment was unusual in relation to how Mrs K 
typically used her account. 
Mrs K told our Investigator that she didnt remember being asked any questions in branch at 
the time of sending the payment. Barclays notes from the time indicated that Mrs K was 
asked questions and shed said the payment was a charitable donation. When this was 
shared with Mrs K, she later said that shed been coached to say that by the scammer. As if 
shed said it was for an investment, shed have been asked further questions which might 
have caused a delay. 
I cant know for sure what was said in branch. Mrs K, understandably, given the passage of 
time, cant provide a detailed testimony as she didnt remember questions being asked at all. 
I find the system notes which were recorded at the time to be persuasive evidence. But, 
equally understandably, the full details of the conversation wouldnt be recorded on Barclays 
systems. I think its more likely than not that Mrs K told Barclays that the payment was a 
charitable donation. And whilst the payment was unusual, by not being honest about the 
purpose of the payment, Barclays ability to try to protect her was hindered. And based on all 
Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Barclays reasonably could have known Mrs K wasnt being 
truthful with them at the time. So, whilst banks should be alert to customers being coached 
or given cover stories, Ive likewise not seen evidence to support that Barclays reasonably 
should have picked up on this or that their interaction in branch wasnt sufficient. I also dont 
think there would have been any reason for Barclays to take the serious step of refusing the 
payment instruction altogether. 
Given Mrs K didnt report the scam to Barclays until two years after the payment, I think its 
most likely that no funds wouldve remained in the beneficiary account. So I dont think 
anything Barclays did or didnt do in relation to recovery would have had an impact. Im sorry 
to hear Mrs K lost this money, and Ive carefully considered all of Barclays obligations and 
regulatory requirements. But as I dont think they failed to prevent the loss or hindered its 
recovery; Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
And whilst I accept this isnt a key part of Mrs Ks complaint, I consider the £150 
compensation for service issues to be fair. The majority of the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs K no doubt suffered, was as a result of the scammers. And I think the £150 is fair for the 
impact of the failings which Barclays are responsible for. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman