DRN-4048927
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs L complain about the service provided by Bluestone Mortgages Limited  and 
in particular that it delayed processing their mortgage application.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr G and Mrs L said they applied through a mortgage broker for a 
mortgage with Bluestone. But the mortgage did not complete until December 2021.
Mr G and Mrs L complain:
They were told it would taken between three and five months to complete the application 
 but it took 16 months.
Theyve suffered a great deal of inconvenience emailing and phoning Bluestone.
Mrs L was buying the property from her ex-partner. She said he was abusive and that he 
threatened her because of the length of time, told her that he would get her evicted from 
the property and tried to sell the property. This had a significant impact on Mrs Ls mental 
health.
Their solicitors costs rose from an estimated £1,700 to over £6,000 because of the 
delays.
 They missed the stamp duty holiday because of the delays.
The delays caused them a considerable amount of stress.
They have had to take out debt because of the delays and additional costs that were 
caused by the delays. 
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Bluestone had 
not caused any unnecessary delay.
Mr G and Mrs L did not accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that on the face of it, 16 months (or more) is a very long time for a mortgage 
application to be considered. I dont doubt what Mr G and Mrs L have told us about how the 
time taken affected them  and I accept that Mrs Ls personal situation was very difficult. But, 
after looking at all of the evidence, I dont consider that Bluestone caused unnecessary delay 
or has acted unfairly. I will explain why.
Mr G and Mrs L understood that their mortgage application would take longer than normal 
because theyd had some bad credit in the past. I also note that I am only considering a 
complaint about the lender, not the mortgage broker they used. 
While there was an enquiry from the broker to Bluestone in June 2020, I cant see that an 
application was actually submitted until December 2020. So Bluestone is not responsible for  
that delay.
Once it received the application, Bluestone required additional information. Im satisfied that 
the requests it made were reasonable and when it received the information it considered it in 
a timely manner. The delays appear to be because of the time taken to receive the 
information it had requested.
Bluestone issued mortgage offer in July 2021. But I cant see any evidence that the 
necessary steps were taken to be able to complete. As such the offer lapsed in November 
2021. Again, there is no evidence of any error by Bluestone.
When the broker resubmitted the application in December 2021, Bluestone was able to issue 
an offer the same month and the mortgage completed. 
The evidence we have shows that there was little activity between June and December 2020 
or July and December 2021. I am satisfied that Bluestone is not responsible for anything that 
happened during those periods of time.
The actual time that Bluestone was processing or considering an application was from 
December 2020 to July 2021 and in December 2021. That is around eight months. And there 
were delays during that time that were not its fault. 
I appreciate the impact of this matter on Mr G and Mrs L. But I cant see that is as a result of 
anything Bluestone did or did not do. So I cant say that Bluestone should meet any of the 
costs they are claiming that arose because of the time the mortgage took to complete. Nor 
can I make any award for the distress and inconvenience Mr G and Mrs L suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman