DRN-3512660
The complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited hasnt settled a claim she made on 
a personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M has a personal Living Costs Protection income protection insurance policy. This 
provides cover if Miss M was unable to work in her own occupation. The policy has a four-
week deferred period and provides a monthly benefit of £1100 if Miss M is incapacitated and 
unable to carry out the duties of her occupation.
In January 2021, Miss M became unwell with an ear infection and tonsillitis and she was 
unwell until 15 February 2021. She made a claim on the income protection policy. Aviva 
accepted the claim without requesting medical evidence to support it and settled the claim in 
line with the policy terms, following the expiry of the deferred period. It let Miss M know that if 
she needed to reopen the claim, it reserved the right to complete a full medical assessment 
before paying anything more.
Subsequently, Miss M made two further incapacity claims. She was off work between 21 
April and 11 June 2021. She told Aviva shed been suffering from stomach flu, a reaction to 
the Covid-19 vaccine and a recurrence of her ear problems. She was then off work between 
23 June and 1 July 2021, suffering from an ear infection. 
Aviva requested medical evidence to support Miss Ms claim from her GP. The policy terms 
stated that if a policyholder was making a claim for a new condition, which wasnt related to 
an illness theyd claimed for previously, within 12 months of the end of the claim period, 
theyd need to have been back at work for at least six consecutive months. 
Following its review of Miss Ms medical records, Aviva decided to turn down her claim for 
the period 21 April until 11 June 2021. Thats because it didnt think there was enough 
medical evidence to show that Miss Ms illness was linked to her previous ear infection and 
tonsillitis. As Miss M hadnt been back at work for six consecutive months after her return to 
work in February 2021, it didnt think her claim was covered. It didnt think shed shown she 
had a valid claim on her policy.
Ultimately, Aviva did agree to link the claim for the period 23 June and 1 July 2021 to the 
January 2021 claim and it paid Miss M benefit for this period. Thats because it felt the 
available medical evidence demonstrated that Miss M was suffering from an ear infection 
during this absence.
Miss M was unhappy with Avivas decision. She provided a back-dated fit note from her GP, 
dated August 2020, which said shed been off-sick from work between 23 April and 11 June 
2021, with an ear infection. But Aviva maintained its stance and so Miss M asked us to look 
into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva was 
entitled to request medical evidence to allow it to consider Miss Ms claims. And he agreed 
that the policy only covered claims for new conditions causing incapacity if a policyholder 
had been back at work for six consecutive months since their last claim period. In this case, 
he didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly when it concluded that there wasnt enough medical 
evidence to show Miss Ms claim for the period 21 April to 11 June 2021 was linked to her 
first claim. 
Miss M disagreed. She felt that the element of her absence which was caused by recurring 
ear infection and tonsillitis should be paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, I think Aviva has treated her fairly and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Ms policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Aviva 
treated Miss M fairly.
First, I must point out that this decision will only focus on Avivas decision not to pay Miss M 
incapacity benefit for the period 21 April until 11 June 2021. Thats because Aviva has 
already accepted that Miss Ms claim for the period 23 June until 1 July 2021 was linked to 
the claim she made following her absence in January and February 2021. Its paid Miss M 
benefit under the policy for this latter period of incapacity. So I dont think I need to make any 
further finding on this point.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Miss Ms policy, as these form the basis of 
her contract with Aviva. Miss M made a claim for incapacity benefit, given she wasnt fit for 
work. She told Aviva that shed suffered from stomach flu, a reaction to the Covid-19 vaccine 
and a recurrence of the ear infection shed contracted earlier in the year. The policy terms 
say:
Recurring incapacity and subsequent incapacity
You can make more than one claim during the policy term
If you need to make a claim for the same medical condition within 12 months of the end of 
the previous claim period:
if the previous limited payment term has not been fully used, the remaining months can be 
used, provided It does not exceed the policy end date. We wont reapply the deferred period.
If you need to make a claim which Is not related (directly or Indirectly) to an incapacity within 
12 months of the end of the previous claim period:
youll need to have returned to an occupation for at least six consecutive months and 
well apply the deferred period. A new limited payment term would apply.
I think the policy terms make it clear that if a policyholder suffers a recurrence of a medical 
condition within 12 months of their last successful incapacity claim for that condition and 
where they havent received the full available benefit, Aviva can link the claim to the previous one without the need for a further deferred period. And I think the terms make it clear that if 
an incapacity claim is for a new medical condition, then a policyholder mustve been back at 
work for at least six consecutive months.
So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Aviva to consider whether Miss Ms medical 
conditions between 21 April and 11 June 2021 were linked to the ear infection and tonsillitis 
shed suffered in January and February 2021 before it agreed to link the claim to the 
previous one. And I think it was also entitled to be satisfied that Miss M met the policy 
definition of incapacity during this period. Incapacity is defined as:
The inability, caused by illness or injury, to perform the duties, of each and every occupation 
you've been following in the 12 months before that illness or injury.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Miss Ms responsibility to provide Aviva with enough 
evidence to demonstrate a) that she was incapacitated during this period and b) that her 
medical conditions were linked to her previous ear infection and tonsillitis. And the policy 
states that Aviva will require evidence in order to assess a policyholders incapacity claim  
which might include medical evidence and reports. This means Im satisfied Aviva was 
reasonably and contractually entitled to require medical evidence to demonstrate that Miss 
M had been incapacitated and which showed a link between her absence and her previous 
illness before it agreed to accept and link the claims.
As Ive set out above, when Miss M told Aviva about her second absence, she said shed 
been off due to stomach flu, ear infection and feeling unwell after her Covid-19 vaccine. 
Aviva correctly informed Miss M that stomach flu and any reaction to her vaccine would be 
classed as new conditions and that therefore, Miss M wouldve needed to return to work for 
six consecutive months from 15 February 2021. Miss Ms second claim began broadly two 
months after her first claim ended. So it was clear that she wouldnt be covered for 
incapacity due to a new condition.
In order for the claim to be payable, Miss M needed to provide Aviva with medical evidence 
to show that she had been unable to perform the duties of her occupation because of an 
illness. Aviva assessed the medical evidence Miss Ms GP provided and didnt think it 
showed that she had a valid incapacity claim or that the claim should be linked to the 
previous one. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to assess whether I think 
these were fair conclusions for Aviva to draw. 
Miss Ms GP provided her medical records for the period following December 2020. I can 
see that on 11 June 2021, Miss M had complained of reflux. But theres no indication that 
she sought any medical advice for an ear infection between 21 April and 11 June 2021. And 
theres no evidence to suggest she spoke to a GP at all to discuss her symptoms after 
becoming unwell on 21 April until 11 June 2021. I can see that on 23 June 2021, Miss M 
contacted her GP to request antibiotics due to an infection in her ear. However, this was 12 
days after Miss M had returned to work following the relevant period of absence. Theres 
simply no medical evidence to show that Miss M sought any medical attention during the 
relevant period or that she received any treatment at this point.
On this basis, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to conclude that there wasnt enough 
evidence to show that Miss Ms illness was linked to her past condition or that shed been 
suffering from an illness which meant she was unable to perform her insured role.
Subsequently, Miss M provided a fit note from her GP which said that shed been assessed 
on 23 April 2021 and was unfit to work until 11 June 2021 because of infection ear. Ive 
thought about this very carefully. But this fit note is dated 8 August 2021  which was around three and a half months after Miss Ms period of absence began. Neither is there any record 
in Miss Ms medical notes that indicate she was assessed either in person or by phone on 
that date. So it seems more likely than not that the GP provided this fit note retrospectively, 
around two months after Miss M had returned to work. And for that reason, I dont think 
Aviva acted unreasonably when it concluded that this wasnt contemporaneous evidence 
either that Miss M had been incapacitated or that her claim should be linked to the earlier 
one.
Overall then, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva decide that Miss M hadnt demonstrated that 
this claim was valid or that it should be linked to her previous claim. And having considered 
everything, it seems Aviva asked for and assessed the necessary evidence promptly and in 
line with its regulatory obligations.
This means that despite my natural sympathy for Miss Ms position, I find it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to turn down her income protection claim for the period 21 April until 11 
June 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman