DRN-4086217
The complaint
Mr M complains Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr M fell victim to an investment scam. Generally, money was transferred between 
Mr Ms account with another bank and his Revolut account before card payments 
were made to top up a newly opened Binance account in his name. This was 
originally for investing, but then he was told he needed to prove liquidity to withdraw 
his investment.
As part of the scam, fraudsters remotely access one of Mr Ms devices. They also 
applied for a £25,000 loan in his name with his other bank. This was used to facilitate 
the final two payments and has since been written off.
Mr M raised the scam payments with Revolut, who declined to refund him. Unhappy, 
he bought his concerns to our service to investigate.
Ive included below the details of the relevant payments to Binance:
Date Amount
08 June 2022 £2,000
14 June 2022 £9,000.00
23 June 2022 £16,000.00
24 June 2022 £26,999.00
24 June 2022 £4,490
On 12 April 2023, I reached a provisional decision which upheld Mr Ms complaint in 
part. In summary, I was satisfied the payments could fairly be regarded as 
authorised. But I thought that Revolut shouldve been concerned from the third 
payment and that an intervention wouldve likely prevented further losses. I thought 
Mr M was partly to blame, so I awarded his 50% of his remaining losses from this 
point. 
Revolut didnt have anything further to add. Mr M replied with further comments. In 
summary:
oHed only got Revolut on his phone and transactions were approved using 
biometrics  it wasnt on his desktop. 
oHe approved the first two transactions. He then transferred £16,000 to 
Revolut, but it was transferred without his approval to Binance. After this, he 
cut ties with his trader.    
oHe let the loan proceed as he needed it to pay rent. 
oHe always believed his funds with Binance were safe and secure, as hed two 
step verification set up and he never logged on when theyd remote access 
software. 
oHe realised something was wrong and changed his password with Nationwide 
and used his card reader to log in. And he didnt approve the use of remote 
access on 24 June 2022. But he still thought that his funds with Binance were 
safe and he just needed to investigate how to withdraw them. ]
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms response carefully. But its not changed my mind about whats a fair 
outcome to this complaint. Ill respond to what I think are the key points: 
Mr M responded to say he only approved the first two payments to Binance, for £2,000 and 
£9,000. But Im mindful that his account of what happened hasnt been clear. For example, 
in some reports  both to us and Revolut  hes said all the money that was moved from his 
Revolut account to his Binance account happened without his involvement. In response to 
our investigators view, hes focussed on how the final two transactions from 24 June 2022 
werent authorised. Indeed, I note theyre what led to him contacting Revolut to say hed 
been scammed. 
This leads me to think that these transactions were consistently happening without him 
completing all the steps to make them. But Mr M either wanted or at least accepted this at 
first. And that it was from 24 June 2022 that the situation escalated.  
As I explained in my provisional findings, I do accept that Mr M didnt want all of these 
payments to happen. But thats not what determines whether these are regarded as 
authorised transactions. And here, given that it seems money was moved without his 
involvement, perhaps from the outset, it remains that Im persuaded that Mr M at least 
understood, or ought reasonably to have understood, that hed give someone else the 
means to make payments from his Revolut account.
So, Ive not changed my mind that it was fair for Revolut to conclude these were authorised 
payments. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms comments where they relate to whether he should share the 
blame for his losses  in other words, his contributory negligence. Hes explained why he let 
the loan proceed and that he thought his money was safe with Binance. And that he didnt 
use remote access on 24 June 2022. 
But it remains that given the fraudsters behaviour and the involvement of his Revolut 
account, I consider he ought reasonably to have taken steps to keep this account safe  for 
example, by contacting Revolut. And while hes said he thought his money with Binance was 
safe, Ive noted from the transaction history for this account that withdrawals were made out 
of the account on the same day that money was transferred in. Equally, Mr Ms summary of 
events (that was submitted when he first contacted us) said that the person he spoke with 
from 21 to 24 June 2022 did use AnyDesk and looked at his Binance account. So, taking this 
all into account, Im not persuaded that Mr Ms actions were as Id expect of a reasonable 
person. 
It follows that Ive not changed my mind that Mr M should share the blame here. That means my final decision is the same as my provisional findings. For completeness, Ive included 
these again below. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is 
that Mr M is liable for authorised payments and Revolut is liable for unauthorised 
payments. Its accepted the first three payments to Binance were authorised. But Mr 
M says the final two payments made on 24 June 2022  for £26,999 and £4,490 
respectively  were made without his knowledge and consent.
Broadly, the PSRs explain that authorisation depends on whether Mr M went through 
the agreed steps to make the payments. Its also possible for him to give someone 
else permission to make the payments on his behalf.
I accept Mr M may not have gone through the steps himself to make these last two 
payments. But at this point, Im satisfied he had shared enough information with the 
fraudsters that meant they were able to make card payments to Binance on his 
behalf. And Im persuaded that he understood theyd the means to do this  after all, 
it doesnt seem he was always involved with making the first three payments, but 
hes not complained these were unauthorised.
Ive also not seen that Mr M did anything to remove their apparent authority to act on 
his behalf, such as taking steps to remove the means for them to make payments. 
For example, by cancelling his card.
In saying this, I appreciate Mr M may not have wanted nor expected the fraudsters to 
make the last payments. But it remains that I think most people would have 
understood and indeed, I think Mr M did have an understanding, that his actions 
meant someone else could authorise payments from his account. So I think Revolut 
has acted fairly in treating them as authorised payments.
While the starting position is that Mr M is liable for authorised payments, Ive also 
considered whether Revolut ought reasonably to have prevented his losses. There 
are some situations where we believe that e-money institutions ought to have 
identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding 
the transaction before making the payment.
Having reviewed how Mr M used his account, I think Revolut ought to have realised 
he was at risk from fraud when the third payment was attempted to Binance for 
£16,000. While hed made one large payment in the previous 12 months, I dont think 
this was characteristic of how he generally used his account, which was usually for 
regular, lower value payments. And, at this stage, Mr M wouldve been sending 
£27,000 within two weeks to a cryptocurrency platform  making both the value and 
nature of this payment very unusual for him.
Our investigator didnt think Mr M wouldve been put off if Revolut had warned him 
this could be scam. I disagree. With appropriate questioning, I think it wouldve come 
to light that this large payment was connected to withdrawing money from his 
investment. Furthermore, that fraudsters had been using remote access software and 
had taken out a loan in his name without his full understanding. These are clear signs 
he was being scammed. And had Revolut warned him, I think its likely he wouldve 
stopped talking with the fraudsters and taken steps to protect himself from further 
losses.
In saying this, I accept Mr M already had some concerns with the fraudsters when 
they made this third payment, as theyd applied for a loan in his name without his full understanding. But I dont think his concerns with these actions is the same as a 
realisation that he was being scammed, which was being taken further by his 
attempts to remove a fictitious investment.
Taking this all into account, Im satisfied that had Revolut intervened appropriately, 
its unlikely Mr M wouldve made the remaining three payments totalling £47,489. 
These payments were facilitated by a £25,000 loan the fraudsters applied for thats 
since been written off by the lender. That leaves losses that I consider Revolut 
couldve prevented of £22,489.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr M should fairly share some blame for these 
losses. The starting point for contributory negligence is considering what a 
reasonable person would be expected to have done in the circumstances  and 
whether Mr Ms actions fell below that.
Here, I think he ought to have been concerned when they took out a loan out in his 
name without his permission. Indeed, it seems he was. But I dont think he acted on 
this as Id expect a reasonable person to. For example, Ive not seen he carried out 
more research into the legitimacy of who he was dealing with or more generally on 
how to stay safe from investment scams. Instead, he let the loan go ahead and he 
carried on his communication with the fraudsters, which involved remote access to 
his device. Taking this into account, Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair to reflect 
Mr Ms contributory negligence.
Revolut has already paid Mr M £2,000 as a gesture of its goodwill for what 
happened. I understand that nothing else has been recovered or returned to Mr M. 
So that leaves an award of £9,244.50
Mr M has been out of pocket for this sum for some time. So I also award 8% simple 
interest per year on this amount from 23 June 2022, when the payment for £16,000 
was made, to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Revolut Ltd must:
Pay Mr M 50% of his remaining losses from the three fraudulent payments for 
£16,000.00, £26,999.00 and £4,490.00. I understand this to be £9,244.50. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from 23 June 2022 to the date of the 
settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman