DRN-4036345
The complaint
Mrs G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have unfairly restricted the 
amount of money she can transfer daily from her bank account.  
Mrs G is represented by a family member in bringing this complaint but, for ease, I will refer 
to all actions and comments as those of Mrs G.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will just provide an overview 
of key events here. 
Mrs G had a bank account with NatWest. In 2018 a lasting Power of Attorney (POA) was 
granted to a family member for Mrs Gs property and financial affairs. 
Mrs G complained to NatWest in 2022 that the daily payment limit of £20,000 imposed on 
her accounts was combined with the daily limit of the family member with POA. She thought 
this was unfair, as it meant the amount she could transfer on any given day was less than 
that of an able-bodied person who did not need to have someone else managing their 
financial affairs.  
NatWest responded to Mrs Gs complaint. It confirmed that the daily limit of £20,000 was a 
combined limit, which meant any payments made on a given day across all accounts held by 
Mrs G or the family member with POA would count towards her daily limit. NatWest said the 
limits were put in place to keep customers safe and it was unable to make changes to the 
process. 
Mrs G remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to this Service. She felt she was 
being discriminated against by NatWest imposing the limit jointly on her and the family 
member acting as POA. She asked that NatWest remove the daily limit from her account 
and from the account of the family member with POA. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He said NatWest combined the account 
limits for security reasons  to help protect consumers who need a POA. Mrs G didnt agree 
with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is that a family member has POA over Mrs Gs financial affairs, and they also 
have a bank account with NatWest. NatWest told this Service that it applies the daily limit to 
each person and not to each account. So when the family member with POA is acting on 
Mrs Gs behalf to manage her accounts, they are subject to the daily limit across all of the 
accounts they either hold themselves or have POA over. Mrs G feels this unfairly places a 
limitation on her account, as there might be occasions when she effectively no longer has a 
daily limit, if the family member with POA reaches the daily limit on their own accounts. 
Mrs G thinks this is unfair and discriminatory, as the combined limit wouldnt apply if she was 
able to take care of her own financial affairs. 
Its important to note at this stage that banks will often put measures in place  to protect 
both consumers and the bank  that may cause inconvenience and frustration but that are 
necessary for security. And this Service wont necessarily interfere with the security 
measures taken by banks. 
I know that Mrs G would like me to make a finding about whether NatWests actions are a 
breach of the Equality Act. But, while I have taken into consideration what she has said 
about believing these security measures mean she is treated less favourably, only a court 
can decide whether the Equality Act has been breached. 
NatWest has made a business decision about the amount of the daily limit it imposes, and 
also that it applies this to each consumer and not to each account held by consumers, and I 
am not going to interfere with that. 
From what I can see, Mrs G is able to transfer up to the daily limit from her bank account on 
any given day, and this means the same daily limit that applies to all consumers also applies 
to Mrs G. 
I appreciate that there might be occasions where both Mrs G and the family member acting 
as POA want to transfer money up to the limit, and that they wont each be able to do this. 
Under the POA, the family member has authority to make necessary payments from Mrs Gs 
account. If NatWest excluded Mrs Gs account when applying the family members daily 
limit, then the family member would be able to carry out transactions totalling £40,000 on 
any given day. As I said earlier, NatWest are allowed to make business decisions about the 
daily payment limits, and so I am not asking it to change how it applies the limit here or to 
take any further action. 
I realise my decision will disappoint Mrs G, but I hope it helps her to know that someone 
impartial and independent has looked into her concerns.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman