DRN-3335239
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare handled a claim.  
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs W took out private medical insurance for their business. The policy was 
underwritten by AXA and provided cover for Mr and Mrs W, their daughter and staff at their 
company.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs Ws daughter required treatment so they submitted a claim which AXA 
accepted. 
Mr and Mrs W were informed by the treating facility that they would be required to take a 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test prior to the treatment to check for Covid-19. Mr and 
Mrs W said this cost should be covered by AXA. But AXA disagreed. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy AXA hadnt made them aware about the requirement for 
Covid-19 testing prior to receiving treatment under the policy. Or who would be liable to 
cover those costs. 
Mr and Mrs W asked if they could arrange the treatment abroad (as the cost was 
substantially less) and then claim the cost back from AXA under the policy. AXA said it 
couldnt agree to cover the cost of treatment abroad as the policy only covers treatment 
within the UK.
Mr and Mrs W asked if they could see a different specialist who wouldnt require testing prior 
to providing treatment but AXA explained the testing was standard practice at the time. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and cancelled the company policy. They asked AXA to 
return the monthly premiums paid since the last renewal. AXA cancelled the policy but didnt 
agree to return the premiums. 
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think AXA had 
acted unfairly. He said it was reasonable for them to apply the policy terms and preventative 
screenings and treatment abroad werent covered. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the outcome. In summary they said: 
They know the policy only covers treatment in the UK but they were trying to put 
forward a viable solution to AXA because the cost of the treatment abroad was 
cheaper than the cost of the PCR tests required by AXAs provider.
AXA and their partners are entitled to request any screenings and tests
according to their wishes without consideration of costs to the insured. 
AXA shouldve made them aware of the additional costs for PCR testing pre- 
treatment. If they had Mrs and Mrs W said they wouldnt have taken out the policy. 
The only additional cost for treatment theyd agreed to was an excess charge. 
The main reason why they purchased the policy was to have fast access to 
professional treatment. 
So now the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I dont think AXA have been 
unfair and Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Policy terms
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ws contract with AXA.
Genetic tests, preventative treatment and screening tests
Health insurance is designed to cover problems that youre experiencing at the
moment, so it generally doesnt cover preventative treatment or screening tests,
including genetic tests.
What is not covered for genetic tests, preventative treatment and screening
tests?
We do not pay for:
any other preventative screening or treatment to see if you have a medical condition 
whether or not you have symptoms;
I dont think it was unfair for AXA to decline cover for the cost of Mr and Mrs Ws screening 
tests. I say that because a PCR test is to check to see if someone has or had Covid -19 
(whether or not they were symptomatic). So Im satisfied it falls within the scope of the above 
exclusion for screening.  
Who is responsible for the treating facilitys health and safety policy? 
Its important to highlight that it was the treating facility, not AXA who confirmed to Mr and 
Mrs W that their pre surgery requirement was two weeks of quarantine and two swabs for 
Covid -19 (one a week before and one 3 days before the surgery). The treating facility is a 
separate entity to AXA and AXA arent responsible for the providers policy on pre-surgery 
screening, or the cost of those tests. 
AXA has no control over what requirements a hospital has in relation to health and safety. 
AXA doesnt own or operate the private facilities its members use. So whilst I can 
understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration at the additional costs for this testing, this isnt 
something I think AXA should cover when the procedure is specifically excluded in the 
policy.  The option from Mr and Mrs W about treatment abroad 
The policy terms and conditions say the policy is only designed to cover treatment
within the UK:
4.33  Treatment abroad and restrictions if you live outside of the UK
We do not cover any costs for treatment you receive outside the UK. We do not cover
any costs or for treatment if you live outside the UK. 
Mr and Mrs W have explained they know the policy only covers treatment in the UK. But they 
wanted to put forward a viable solution to AXA as the cost of treatment abroad was less than 
the cost of the PCR tests required by AXAs provider. They said this proved that it was no 
longer economically viable for them to keep on paying for policy as they could receive the 
treatment elsewhere for less money  despite having private medical insurance. 
I appreciate this point of view, but I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to disagree that 
they could receive the surgery abroad and then claim the cost back under the policy. I say 
that because the policy only covers treatment in the UK.  And treatment abroad wasnt the 
only option available to Mr and Mrs W. The treatment in question was available in the UK, 
but Mr and Mrs W were unhappy about the additional costs, so they decided they didnt want 
to go ahead. This is different to being unable to receive the treatment needed. So I dont 
think I can reasonably ask AXA to depart from the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs W argued that AXA are responsible for the additional pre-screening costs 
because their policy doesnt allow customers to go to whichever provider they want and 
receive a refund of the costs. But this isnt how private medical insurance policies work. Its 
not unusual for a private medical insurer to restrict access to certain treatment providers on 
their list. Or to only provide cover for treatment in the UK. 
A change in the policy terms 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy AXA didnt send an amended contract with a new term about the 
additional cost of testing before receiving treatment. They say at the point preventative 
screening became standard practice prior to accessing healthcare, AXA shouldve advised 
them of this change and offered them a chance to cancel the policy. 
I should make it clear that were not the industry regulator and so I have no power to tell AXA 
how it must draft its contract terms. But I dont think AXA did change the terms of their 
contract here. 
I think the policy term set out above is sufficiently clear and unambiguous as to set out the 
cover AXA provides for preventative screening and what is excluded. The time in question 
was an unprecedented circumstance that meant preventative screening suddenly became a 
requirement for many treatment providers  but there was nothing to say that this pre-
screening policy would remain the same in the future. And in any event, as explained above, 
AXA arent responsible for a health and safety request made by the treating facility. 
The sale of the policy 
Mr and Mrs W said if they were made aware of the additional costs for PCR testing pre- 
treatment, they wouldnt have taken out the policy.When the policy was sold in 2015 Mr and Mrs W wouldve been provided with the terms of 
the policy that stated preventative screening tests werent covered under the policy. So Im 
satisfied this exclusion was available to them at the time.  
I dont think this term made all treatment inaccessible for Mr and Mrs W. They were able to 
book eligible treatment under the policy and AXA was prepared to accept treatment. 
Mr and Mrs W said the main reason they took out the policy was to have access to quick and 
professional treatment if something major happens in their family. But its important to note 
that the policy provides a range of other benefits and access to treatment, aside from private 
surgery. And not all forms of treatment would require a pre-screening Covid-19 test in order 
to utilise the cover.  So I disagree Mr and Mrs W were paying for a policy they couldnt use. 
Return of monthly premiums
Mr and Mrs W asked AXA to return the monthly premiums paid between the date the policy 
renewed up to the point they cancelled cover. But I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to 
refund premiums if medical treatment or medical services were unavailable due to 
circumstances outside of its control. 
I appreciate they feel strongly that AXA shouldnt retain the premiums, but insurance policies 
are intended to cover the risk of an event happening over the duration of the contract. And 
an insurer is entitled to retain the premiums paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim is made. 
So I dont think AXA acted unfairly in not agreeing to this rebate. 
Summary 
Based on the above, I think it was reasonable for AXA to decline cover for the PCR tests. 
AXA arent responsible for the providers policy on pre-surgery screening due to an 
unprecedented and unforeseen event causing a worldwide pandemic. So Im satisfied this 
screening step was beyond AXAs control. And the policy terms are clear that the costs for 
such tests arent covered. 
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs W feel the costs of the PCR tests theyd found were 
excessive. But I cant comment on the providers pricing. 
I dont disagree that circumstances surrounding access to medical treatment did change in 
light of Covid -19 and restrictions put in place. But in the circumstances, this is not 
something I can hold AXA responsible for as it was beyond their control. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman