DRN-3806077
The complaint
Mr C says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr C took out two instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows. 
loan taken out repaid value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 26/06/2018 21/03/2019 1,500 18 139.58 2,512.44
2 21/03/2019 10/07/2020 3,000 18 340.16 6,122.88
Loan 2 was used in part to settle loan 1.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He said ELLs checks were proportionate, but he 
did not think it had made fair lending decisions based on the information it gathered.
ELL disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me. 
It said we had considered the monthly cost for Mr C of repaying his existing revolving debt at 
5% of outstanding balance, it uses 3% in its affordability assessment and this complies with 
the relevant regulations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would
be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr C. It asked for his monthly income and estimated his living costs using national
averages. It carried out credit checks to understand his credit history and his existing credit
commitments. It reviewed recent bank statements to verify his salary and some outgoings. I 
cant see it asked about the purpose of loan 1, loan 2 was to refinance loan 1 and for a 
holiday. Based on these checks ELL thought Mr C had enough disposable income to afford 
the loan repayments and so it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL made fair lending decisions 
based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why. 
Loan 1
ELL has shared the affordability assessment it completed. This shows Mr C would have 
£325.75 of monthly disposable income after taking on this loan. But as part of its checks it 
asked for his recent bank statements and I cant reconcile ELLs assessment to Mr Cs 
actual financial situation. These show that Mr C was under financial pressure, he was 
persistently reliant on his overdraft and incurring daily overdraft fees. I accept they include 
his discretionary spend but from what I can see this was very limited and not the cause of his 
financial strain. So I dont think ELL properly took into account all the information it gathered 
to reach its lending decision. Rather it based its assessment in part on national statistics, not 
the actuals that it had. Plus Mr C was already spending a significant percentage of his 
income on credit which can be an indicator that any further debt is unlikely to be repaid 
sustainably. Based on Mr Cs financial position at the time he applied I think ELL ought to have realised 
there was a risk he would be unable to repay this loan sustainably  so without borrowing to 
repay (using his overdraft to make his repayments, for example) or suffering other adverse 
financial consequences. 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr C.
Loan 2
Logically, I would want to see that ELL got the reassurance it needed that Mr Cs financial 
position had stabilised before considering lending in March 2019. From its checks it could 
see Mr Cs external borrowings had increased from £10,775 to £40,900  and so the amount 
of income he now needed to spend to service his debt had increased significantly. ELL 
calculated Mr C would have £252.22 of monthly disposable income, but again I cant see the 
bank statements it had copies of supported this analysis. 
In the months before his application Mr C was persistently overdrawn and he would now 
need to spend over half his income on his credit commitments so I think it was most likely 
the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr C.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr C.
ELL argued in response to the adjudicators view that it was reasonable to account for a 
lower level of repayment on Mr Cs revolving credit and so it maintained that the loans were 
affordable. But for the reasons set out above its comments do not change my conclusion.
Ive also thought about whether ELL acted unfairly in some other way towards Mr C and I
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should
not have been provided to him so ELL needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on the loan;
if reworking Mr Cs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*;
if reworking Mr Cs account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL
should work with Mr C to agree an affordable repayment plan; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr C a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman