DRN-3923216
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold an additional service by Saga Services Limited 
(Saga) when agreeing to take a motor insurance policy. 
Mrs S is represented by Mr L in her complaint.
What happened
Mrs S was sent renewal information by Saga in February 2021 confirming her premium for 
the coming policy year. She phoned Saga, before the renewal date in March, to let it know 
she had received an SP50 motoring conviction in 2020. Mrs S was told that this meant an 
increase in her premium. The higher cost is the subject of a separate complaint she raised 
with her insurer. I wont be considering that issue here. 
During the same call Mrs S says she was offered a policy enhancement called Saga Plus. 
She agreed to this over the phone. This provided additional services for an increased 
premium. 
Mr L says Mrs S hadnt selected Saga Plus in previous years. He says the additional cost 
has added to her financial worries and hardship. Mr L says Mrs S was anxious that her 
insurance wouldnt be continued in light of the motoring conviction. He says it was 
inappropriate for Sagas agent to offer the Saga Plus service to an elderly customer in these 
circumstances. 
In its complaint response Saga says that it listened to the call when Mrs S agreed to take its 
policy. It says its agent confirmed the cover, and the price, and Mrs S accepted. It didnt 
think its agent acted unfairly.
Mrs S didnt think this outcome was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. Having listened to the call recording, she thought 
Sagas agent had explained the Saga Plus product clearly. She says Mrs S appeared to 
have a good understanding and when she asked the agent to repeat information he did so. 
Our investigator didnt think Sagas agent had mis-sold the service. 
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive listened to the call recording when Mrs S disclosed her motoring conviction. At the start 
of the call, she asks the agent if he can speak up. The agent acknowledges this and talks 
more loudly. There are occasions during the call when Mrs S asks for the agent to repeat 
what he has said. I think the agent behaves professionally and politely during the call. He 
repeats any information Mrs S asks him to. The conversation appears cordial and friendly 
throughout. 
During the call Sagas agent discusses the motoring conviction with Mrs S and clarifies that 
this was an SP50 offence. He confirms Mrs Ss circumstances havent changed other than 
the motoring conviction. He then obtains an updated quote. The agent says he will re-run 
this through the system because he was surprised at the increase in the premium. He did so 
and the higher premium was confirmed to be correct.
Mrs S was surprised at the increase in cost. But I think its clear she understood what she 
was being told. The agent asks if she still wants to renew at the higher price. Mrs S says 
shell have to be extra careful, with reference to getting motoring convictions. But she 
confirmed she wanted to take the policy. The agent repeats do you still want to renew it. Mrs 
S says, yes please.
The agent then tells Mrs S that Saga has a new service that fixes the premium for the next 
two years. He also describes the other features that are included. He explains what the 
increase in price will be if Mrs S agrees to these extra features. The agent asks is this high 
enough already? referring to the price without the extra features. He says, would you rather 
do that then at this stage meaning take the lower price. Mrs S asks if the cheaper price can 
include the additional features. The agent says that these features only come with the higher 
premium. Mrs S confirms that she would like the additional features with the Saga Plus 
service.
I acknowledge Mr Ls comments that Mrs S was vulnerable because of her age and anxious 
state when disclosing her motoring conviction. Because of this he thinks it was inappropriate 
for Sagas agent to offer the enhanced service. Ive thought carefully about this point. 
I didnt hear anything during the call that indicated Mrs S didnt understand the information 
she was given. The cost and features available were clearly stated. Sagas agent asks 
several times if Mrs S wants to take the lower premium to avoid the higher cost. She was 
clear in her responses that she wanted the additional benefits and agreed to take the Saga 
Plus service. She didnt appear to be anxious and was confident to ask questions when she 
didnt hear or didnt understand something the agent said.  
Having thought about this I dont think Sagas agent behaved inappropriately or that the 
Saga Plus service was inappropriately sold. 
Policy documentation was sent to Mrs S after the call. I can see that on the front page it says 
she should contact Saga if she wanted to cancel. Under the heading After youve taken out 
your policy its explained that Mrs S has 14 days to cancel the policy if she doesnt feel its 
right for her. 
I dont think Sagas agent mis-sold the Saga Plus service based on the call recording Ive 
listened to. I think the information provided was clear and Mrs S made an informed decision 
to take the enhanced policy. The policy documentation she received confirmed the option to 
cancel the policy within 14 days. If Mrs S hadnt understood or on reflection decided not to 
go with the enhanced service  she had the option to cancel without charge.Having considered all of this I dont think Saga treated Mrs S unfairly, so I cant reasonably 
ask it to do anymore.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman