DRN-2962689
The complaint
Mrs H (by the way of her representative) has complained that Mutual Clothing and Supply
Company Limited (Mutual) gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld in part Mrs Hs complaint. Mutual did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint, based on the information that I have to hand. A copy of the background 
to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs H took seven loans from Mutual between October 2015 and April 2019. A summary of
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mutual can be found below:
Loan 
numberDate taken Date repaid Term 
(weeks)Loan amount
1 10/10/2015 15/06/2016 51 £400.00
2 19/08/2017 22/11/2017 26 £200.00
3 11/11/2017 28/03/2018 51 £600.00
4 16/12/2017 18/04/2018 26 £200.00
5 10/03/2018 16/01/2019 51 £1,000.00
6 19/01/2019 03/04/2019 51 £300.00
7 27/04/2019 11/09/2019 51 £1,000.00
But Mrs H did have a further six loans between January 2013 and September 2014.
In its final response, Mutual confirmed it did not investigate any of Mrs Hs loans which were
taken out more than six years from the date Mrs H complained. This is because Mutual
believes that Mrs H could have raised her complaint earlier than she actually did. Mutual
later confirmed Mrs H had six loans taken out more than six years before she complained.
But in the absence of any information showing Mrs Hs awareness for these loans, this
decision will only be focussing on the loans in the table above which are the loans that
Mutual says were taken out within the six years of when Mrs H complained.
The adjudicator didnt think loans 1  5 should be upheld but she did uphold Mrs Hs
complaint about loans 6 and 7. The adjudicator went on to explain that Mutual needed to be
doing then just relying on what Mrs H declared about her income and expenditure, and she
also took account a significant break in lending between loans 1 and 2. But by loan 6, she
thought the pattern of lending was such, that this loan and any further loans were no longer
sustainable for Mrs H.
It appears that Mrs H agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mutual didnt agree, and in response it provided us a lengthy report with annexes. I want to
make it clear, that I have read, in full the response weve received from Mutual. Ive outlined
some of the points Mutual has made below;
These loans are not high interest or expensive.
There are important differences in a home credit loan to other forms of high cost
short-term credit which the adjudicator hasnt taken into consideration.
It could see no indication that this lending was spiralling out of control or that the
amounts lent were increasing unsustainably.
Mrs Hs lending was spread over a number of years.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this
assessment should be made.
There were gaps between the provision of each loan.
In a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to four loans per year
(but more may indicate financial difficulty). So, the number of times Mutual lent does
not indicate unsustainable borrowing.
Taking 7 loans over 5 is not the same as taking 7 loans in 1 year.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mutual was required to establishwhether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Loans 1-5
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint about these loans, and Mrs Hs doesnt
appear to disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the
level of individual checks Mutual completed before approving these loans, as I dont think
there is any ongoing disagreement about them. But as these loans form part of the
borrowing relationship Mrs H had with Mutual, they are something I have taken into account
when considering the later loans, she borrowed.
Loans 6 and 7
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs H.
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe loans 6 and 7 as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example,
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Hs complaint about these loans because in their view, Mrs H
was reliant on this lending and shed been indebted for around 17 months (in this chain). But
I dont agree, and Ive explained why below.
Mrs H had been indebted to Mutual for 17 months, in this chain of lending, but in that time
she had only taken four previous loans (by the time of loan 6). I acknowledge that Mrs H had
overlapping loans, prior to loan 6 being granted but I dont think that on its own is sufficient
for me to be able to conclude loans 6 and 7 were harmful for Mrs H solely based on the
pattern of lending. Especially, as there didnt appear to have been any repayment problems.
And when loan 6 was approved, this was for a fairly modest amount, with payments of only
around £8 per week, which wouldve looked affordable to Mutual.
Even, when Mrs H returned for loan 7 (while loan 6 was outstanding)  her payments
increased to around £35 per week, I still dont think that in of itself would be enough to say
that the loans had become harmful or unsustainable in some other way for Mrs H.
So, Im not persuaded that Mrs Hs lending had been harmful to her based solely on thepattern of lending and / or the time in debt.
For these loans I understand that Mutual wouldve asked Mrs H about her income and
expenditure. For loan 6, the application form Mutual has provided is blank and doesnt
contain any information about Mrs Hs circumstances. For loan 7, the application form shows
she declared she earned £285 per week and had outgoings of £95 per week. So, Mrs Hs
repayments wouldve looked affordable.
Mutual also says it carried out a credit check for at least the final loan and it provided us a
copy of this credit checks. Having reviewed the results there is in my view nothing of concern
for Mutual. There was no indication that Mrs H was having financial difficulties (such as
defaults or missed payment markers) and there is no indication that she was over indebted
or reliant on any other forms of lending (such as other forms of high cost credit).
Mrs H had been indebted to Mutual for around 17 months, and she was coming back for a
much smaller loan then shed had recently taken, but she was again extending her
indebtedness out for a further 51 weeks. This loan also approved a matter of days after loan
5 was repaid. And as far as the application form is concerned, no new information was
gathered about her circumstances.
So, by loan 6, and for all future loans, I think Mutual needed to have a complete and
accurate understanding of Mrs Hs financial position. It couldve done this a number of ways.
It couldve asked for evidence of her income via a payslip and then asked for evidence of
what bills she had. Alternately, Mutual couldve requested copies of Mrs H bank statements
which wouldve given it an accurate picture of her financial position and wouldve highlighted
any financial difficulties she may have been having.
Mutual didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate. But that isnt the end of
the matter. For me to be able to conclude that Mutual shouldnt have given this loan, I have
to be satisfied that not only did Mutual not carry out a proportionate check, but by not
carrying out a proportionate check has this caused Mrs H a loss  that being the loan ought
not to have been approved.
However, Im not able to do that here, because Ive not been provided with any information
about Mrs Hs actual financial position at the time. In the absence of this information, I cant
conclude Mutual made an error when it approved this loan. Therefore, as it stands, Im
proposing not to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual didnt respond to the provisional decision, so I dont know what it thinks about the 
outcome that I was intending to reach. So, it hasnt provided any new information or 
evidence for this service to consider. 
Mrs Hs representative confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and explained that it 
would contact Mrs H for the further information. Mrs Hs representative was aware of the 
deadline as it said it would diarise a response. To date no further information has been 
received from the representative despite the deadline for a response passing. 
Given both sides have had long enough to respond to the provisional decision, I dont see 
any reason to delay the issuing of the final decision. So, as no new information has been provided, Im reaching the same outcome that I did in 
the provisional decision for the same reasons. That being, while the checks Mutual carried 
out were not proportionate for loans 6 and 7. I cant say, based on what Ive been provided 
that Mutual wouldve thought these two loans were unaffordable for Mrs H. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman