DRN-3043734
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to reject a claim for storm 
damage which she made under her home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs B reported damage to a wall of an outbuilding which she said 
happened during a storm. 
Her insurer AXA rejected the claim. It said the damage wasnt caused by a one-off insured 
event  a storm. It said the storm had highlighted a gradual deterioration of materials. So 
AXA declined Mrs Bs claim as it said the damage had been caused over time and wasnt 
covered under the policy.
Our investigator was satisfied that storm conditions had occurred in terms of high winds on 
the day the damage happened. She looked at reports provided by AXAs expert and Mrs Bs 
appointed experts. She thought AXA had reached its decision reasonably as there wasnt 
enough to show the damage had been caused by a storm. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said shed been in touch with the authors of her reports and theyd 
confirmed the damage had been caused by high winds. 
Mrs B said the insurer for her contents met her claim. Weve clarified with Mrs Bs contents 
insurer that they settled a claim for accidental damage due to falling rubble on the contents 
held in the outbuilding. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We ask three questions in order to consider if an insurer has fairly declined a claim for storm 
damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Theres no dispute that storm conditions occurred at the time the damage occurred to Mrs 
Bs outbuilding. Its agreed by all parties that there wasnt heavy rain, but there were heavy 
winds to meet AXAs definition of a storm. So the answer to the first question is yes.
I think the damage being claimed for is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
Part of a wall of the outbuilding collapsed. 
The final question for me to consider is whether storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. For ease Ill refer to the detailed report provided by an engineer for Mrs B as report 
B and the report provided by AXAs appointed engineer as report A. Mrs B also provided a 
letter from a local builder who advised he believed the damage had been caused by storm 
conditions on 24/25 February 2021. 
Were storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Report A includes several photos of the outbuilding and the damage. The report says there 
was evidence of a natural breakdown of materials over time. It said there was no evidence of 
damage caused by a single one off storm event. 
Report B was produced three months after the event and described the structure of the 
outbuilding in detail. The author wrote that the external walls to the outbuilding were cobs 
supported at the base. The report said:
The remaining section of the cob wall on the northwest elevation has distorted to the 
outside by around 150mm. This movement has been previously arrested by a series 
of masonry buttresses constructed against the cob wall preventing further movement. 
The section of failed cob appears to be in very good condition being compact and 
uniform in nature with no sign of significant rodent/insect infestation or water 
deterioration. There is no sign of material degradation. The cob was adequately 
protected with an oversailing roof sheet and had a stone plinth.
The engineer concluded that the cause of damage was probably one of two things: that 
persistent rainfall may have saturated the ground which could have migrated to the lower 
section of the cob at external ground level. The second cause was described as follows:
The high wind speeds at the time of the failure associated with associated high wind 
pressure and suction forces on the side elevation in conjunction with a weakened cob 
structure has probably caused the 45 degree shear failure in the lower section of the 
wall. The wall probably slid on the shear plane inwards and the higher section of cob 
wall rotated outwards and was resisted from falling outwards by the external 
buttresses. 
It is reasonable to assume that without these environmental conditions the wall 
would have remained intact. 
Our investigator asked AXA to provide further comments on report B. AXA asked the 
contractor that provided report A to comment and they said:
The customer confirmed the buttresses were in place 50 years ago when they 
purchased the property due to the wall bowing at that time. It is evident from the 
condition of the wall that it has further deteriorated over that time and the recent 
weather conditions have only served to highlight this ongoing issue.The report suggests the cumulative impact of the rainfall and rising ground water may 
have weakened the wall. This would not be considered storm damage but in any 
event has only contributed to the already deteriorated condition of the wall.
Ultimately if the force of the wind was sufficient to collapse a wall in a reasonable 
condition then it is highly unlikely the corrugated roof sheets would remain entirely 
unaffected.
Work has been done to try and prolong the life of the wall but the requirement to 
rebuild the wall was inevitable.
In response, Mrs B said she contacted both the builder and engineer who provided report B. 
She said they both told her they agree that rain did not cause the cob slippage as the cob 
was dry and the rainfall was not heavy during the storm. They advised her of the following:
The wind at storm force can cause a capillary reaction, but this is due to wind not 
rain if indeed that happened  there was no sign of damp. However, as for the 
buttresses, they were built almost 50 years ago under the wooden roof beams to hold 
the roof stays firm and take the weight off the cob walls - this is in order to preserve 
the cob - not because it was weak. Therefore the wind would not have blown the roof 
off as it was properly secured and maintained to keep the barn watertight.
Ive carefully considered the reports from the experts and their subsequent comments. Like 
the investigator, Ive noted that although Mrs Bs expert (providing report B) says the cob 
wall was in good condition with no sign of deterioration, they also referred to a weakened 
cob structure. AXAs engineer points out that support for the wall was provided 50 years ago 
due to bowing. On seeking further advice from Mrs Bs experts, they told her rain hadnt 
contributed to causing the damage, which is different to what report B said as persistent 
rainfall was one of two possible causes listed by the author. Report B suggested a cause of 
damage may have been due to rainfall saturating the ground which had impacted at ground 
level causing weakness to the wall.
I understand the explanation given as to why the roof wasnt damaged in the storm  but 
overall I dont think there is enough persuasive evidence to show that a one off storm event 
caused he damage being claimed for. I think on balance its more likely that the storm 
highlighted a gradual deterioration in the materials over time which was the main cause of 
the damage. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B. But I think AXA reached its decision to decline her claim in a 
reasonable way. This means Im not asking it to do any more. The claim Mrs B made with 
her contents insurer was for accidental damage. Each insurers criteria and policy definitions 
differ depending on the type of claim being made. The fact that Mrs Bs contents insurer 
accepted a clam doesnt mean AXA hasnt reasonably considered her claim for buildings 
damage caused by a storm.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman