DRN-2940704
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling) hasnt refunded him the money he lost 
after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr P fell victim to an impersonation scam. On 1 April 2020, he was contacted, by 
phone, by whom he believed was his third-party bank where he held two accounts (a 
current account and savers account). Mr P says the telephone number appeared 
genuine (it had been spoofed / cloned). He also says he was taken through security 
and the fraudster knew details of his accounts and recent transactions, such as his 
direct debit for a gym membership. Mr P says he thought he was talking with his 
genuine third-party bank.
Mr P was led to believe that his third-party bank accounts were at risk and there had 
been unusual activity with card payments being made and a standing order being set 
up  all of which Mr P hadnt authorised. Mr P was told that his accounts had been 
frozen and that new accounts would be set up. Mr P says he was told, as a safety 
measure, to move his funds from his third-party accounts to his account with Starling. 
And from there, he could move his funds to the new accounts the third-party bank 
was setting up.
The fraudster advised Mr P that there was a daily transfer limit of £10,000. Over the 
course of three days Mr P transferred £5,000 each day, from each of his third-party 
accounts into his Starling account and then straight away transferred the monies on 
to what he thought was his new accounts with his third-party bank. Meaning Mr P 
had transferred £10,000 a day and £30,000 in total.
Mr P was advised that he needed to destroy his cards and that new ones would be 
sent. On 15 April 2020, when the cards hadnt arrived, Mr P contacted his third-party 
bank  and the scam was revealed.
Mr P then contacted Starling the same day and reported the scam. Starling contacted 
the receiving banks (the accounts used by the fraudster), however no funds 
remained that could be recovered.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary code Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.  
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that: 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
I am also mindful that when Mr P made these payments, Starling should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
Starling investigated the matter and wrote out to Mr P on 26 May 2020. It explained that it 
would not be reimbursing Mr P for the transfers as it had sufficient fraud prevention 
measures in place, and it considered Mr P had not carried out sufficient checks prior to 
making the payment.
Unhappy with this, Mr P complained to Starling. On 27 May 2020 Starling issued its final 
response to Mr Ps complaint. It explained it was unable to refund him. It remained of the 
opinion that it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and felt Mr P did not make 
sufficient checks before making the payment.
Mr P then referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found 
Mr P had met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
In summary, she said:
Starling hadnt been clear as to whether it considered Mr P had ignored effective 
warnings. But the investigator reviewed the warnings that Starling, in its submissions 
to this service, said Mr P would have seen when setting up a new payee and making 
a payment. She felt the warning, while relevant to the scam Mr P was falling victim to, 
wouldnt have been impactful in Mr Ps specific circumstances. So, she didnt think 
Starling had been able to establish that Mr P should not be reimbursed on the basis 
that he ignored an effective warning.
She didnt think Starling had been able to establish that Mr P didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment was legitimate or that Mr P had been 
grossly negligent. She thought it was reasonable in the circumstances for Mr P to 
think he was talking to his genuine third-party bank  given the sophistication of the 
scam.Our investigator also considered Starling could have done more to prevent the loss. She 
thought the transfers and activity were unusual, and Starling should have been on alert that 
Mr P was possibly at risk of financial harm. She considered that Starling should have 
intervened and had it done, Mr P would have explained the reasons for the transfers which 
would have alerted Starling that Mr P was falling victim to a scam and the losses would have 
been prevented.
The investigator said Starling ought to refund the amount Mr P lost as result of the scam and 
pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date of the losses to the date of settlement. 
Starling disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review and final decision. 
In preparing the case for an ombudsmans review, the investigator reviewed the 
compensation that they had awarded. 
Prior to making the payments from his Starling account (which unfortunately went to the 
fraudster), Mr P had transferred some of the money (£15,000) into the account from his 
third-party banks savings account. 
The investigator, upon reflection, considered that in returning Mr P to the position he would 
have been in had things not gone wrong, then as £15,000 of the funds had originated from 
Mr Ps third-party banks savings account, fair compensation would be for the return of the 
amount lost as a result of the scam, plus additional compensation on £15,000 at the 
applicable savings account rate from the date of loss to the date of settlement. And on the 
remaining £15,000 that had originated from Mr Ps third-party banks current account  8% 
simple interest per year, from the date of loss until the date of settlement. And this was 
because it was unclear how Mr P would have used the funds that were in his third-party 
bank current account and he had been deprived of the use of those funds. 
The investigator considered this would put Mr P back into the position, as far as is possible, 
had things not gone wrong.
The investigator informed both parties of the amendment. Mr P responded agreeing with the 
amended redress.
Ultimately, as the matter hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded the money Mr P 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Starling should in any event have intervened as the payments were unusual and out 
of character for Mr P and if it had done so, I am satisfied the fraud would have come 
to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Starling should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr P 
lost.Starling should also pay additional compensation on this amount as follows:
o£15,000 of Mr Ps funds originated from his savings account held with his 
third-party bank and they would have more likely than have remained in 
Mr Ps savings account. So, Starling should also pay interest calculated at the 
applicable savings account rate from the date of the loss to the date of 
settlement.
o£15,000 of Mr Ps funds came from Mr Ps current account held with his third-
party bank. It is not clear how Mr P would have used the money if Starling 
had refunded it when it should have done, so it should also pay interest on 
the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.
Ill now set out my reasons for reaching this decision.
Starling hadnt been clear in its initial response to Mr P and its subsequent final response to 
him as to whether it considered he had ignored effective warnings. It explained that it would 
not be reimbursing Mr P for the transfers as it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in 
place and considered Mr P had not carried out sufficient checks prior to making the 
payment.
In its submissions to this service, it said Mr P was presented with a warning when setting up 
a new payee and making a payment. 
So I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warning it says Mr P 
would have seen when making the first payment / transfer to a new payee and also its 
concerns as to whether Mr P had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be 
genuine. 
Having done so, they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular, I am not 
persuaded that Mr P failed to take the requisite level of care required for Starling to choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met because:
Starling has only provided the warning it says Mr P would have seen when setting up 
a new payee and making a payment that was over a certain amount. So, as Mr P set 
up two new payees, believing he was paying to two accounts in his own name, would 
have seen the warning twice. Starling says Mr P was required to select a purpose for 
the payment and chose paying your account. So, Ive reviewed this warning.The warning, while relevant to the type of scam Mr P was falling victim to, wasnt 
impactful enough in the circumstances of the fraud. It didnt set out or bring to life 
what the type of scam Mr P was falling victim to (an impersonation /safe account 
scam), would typically look or feel like that would have a positively affected Mr Ps 
decision making. It is important to remember that Mr P was genuinely convinced he 
was talking to his third-party banks fraud department and was unaware that 
fraudsters could spoof numbers. To have a sufficient impact, the warning had to 
overcome the belief or break the spell and trust that the scammer had been able to 
generate verbally. So, I dont think the warning was impactful or specific enough here 
given Mr Ps situation at the time, and I can see why it would not have had a material 
impact on preventing the fraud.
Im also mindful that the warning doesnt include steps to ensure that Mr P 
reasonably understood the consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment 
 which is a requirement of an effective warning under the Code.
Starling hasnt confirmed or evidenced that Mr P received any further warnings when 
he made the subsequent payments to the same accounts on the second and third 
day or whether because of the amounts, he would have still received the same 
warning. If Mr P did receive the same warning, then it doesnt alter my opinion as I 
feel the warning wasnt effective  for the same reasons Ive set out above.
Im also satisfied that Starling has not shown that Mr P lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Mr P was a victim of a sophisticated scam. He was contacted on what appeared a 
genuine number. Mr P was unaware numbers could be spoofed. The scammer also 
appeared genuine to Mr P as they knew his third-party banks security process and 
also knew of Mr Ps accounts and his gym membership direct debit. So, I can see 
why Mr P genuinely believed that he was talking to what the thought was his real 
third-party bank.
 
As Mr P believed he was talking to his (third-party) bank, and was being told that 
there were attempted transactions on his account and a standing order that had been 
all been stopped, I can understand why Mr P had a reasonable basis of belief that his 
account would be frozen and new accounts would be set up. And that as a temporary 
safety measure he should secure his money by moving his funds to his Starling 
account and then on to the accounts that were to be set up for him.
I do appreciate that Mr P made the transfers over three days. However, it is important 
to remember that Mr P had fallen for the scam and was convinced that he had been 
contacted by his third-party bank. At the time Mr P had no reason to doubt what he 
had been told, such was the sophistication of the scam. I am also mindful that Mr P 
had also been advised by the fraudster about daily transfer limits and how best to go 
about securing his funds. And I can see that Mr P was prompt in doing the transfers 
every 24 hours or so. So, it seems Mr P wanted to ensure his funds were secure at 
werent at further risk and moved them across as soon as he thought was possible 
each time  in line with what he had been told by the fraudster.
So, given the scam Mr P had fallen victim to, and that Mr P believed he had been 
speaking with his third-party bank, I can see why Mr P didnt consider he had a cause 
for concern and had a reasonable basis of belief when making the transfers.Could Starling have done more to prevent the scam?
Ive also carefully considered whether Starling could have done more to prevent the scam. 
And I think it could have and should have done more to prevent Mr P from being at risk of 
financial harm.
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Starling should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Having looked at the statements provided, Mr P had rarely used his Starling account. Prior to 
April 2020 and the activity in question, the account had last been used in October 2019. So, 
on 1 April 2020, when there were two large incoming transfers, followed by two outgoing 
transfers of the same amount but to a new payee minutes apart, I consider Starling ought to 
have been on alert that the transactions were out of character and unusual given the 
previous account history. Given this, I would reasonably have expected Starling to have 
taken additional steps or made additional checks before executing the two initial transfers of 
£5,000. This would have ensured the purpose of the transaction and importantly ensured 
that there wasnt anything untoward going on, in order to satisfy itself that its customer 
wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
I accept that a bank does have a duty under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay 
payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable 
checks are also required as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly 
and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what 
a bank can reasonably do; but when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic account 
activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to respond proportionately 
 and that might simply include, for example, a phone call or discreet conversation for 
transactions in branch to check that things are okay. 
So, Ive considered what would have happened if Starling had intervened in the way it might 
reasonably have done. 
Banks such as Starling have actual or constructive knowledge of all the main scams, such 
as this (i.e. impersonation / safe account scam). So, had Starling intervened and asked Mr P 
appropriate questions about the incoming and outgoing transfers, as Mr P hadnt been given 
a cover story or coached what to say, I think Mr P would have explained that he had been 
contacted by his third-party bank and was in the process of securing his funds by moving 
them to the new accounts that had been set up in his name by his third-party bank. 
Starling should then have been on alert that Mr P could possibly be at risk of financial harm 
 given its knowledge of these types of scams. The adviser could set out that banks never 
request customers to move money, and importantly, the adviser could have brought to life, 
very simply, what an impersonation / safe account scam would look and feel like. It could 
have explained that scammers can impersonate banks and appear to be genuine by using 
spoofed numbers and gain trust by using some personal information about customers. Had 
this been explained, and had it been explained to Mr P that, to ensure he wasnt at risk of 
financial harm, to contact his third-party bank on a verified number (while not processing the 
transfers from his Starling account) I think Mr P would have taken the appropriate actions 
required.
Put simply, had the type of scam Mr P was at potential risk of, been explained to him, and 
what steps he needed to take to protect himself, I believe Mr P would have made contact 
with his third-party bank using a verified number and the scam would have been prevented 
and Mr P would not have lost the funds he did.
  My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Starling Bank Limited  and I therefore require it to:
Refund the amount (£30,000) Mr P lost as a result of the scam within 28 days of 
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
On £15,000 of the funds lost, it should pay the applicable interest rate of the savings 
account at the time  as this was where these funds originated. This should be paid 
from the date of the loss to the date of the settlement. 
On the remaining £15,000 of the funds lost, it should pay 8% simple interest per year 
 as the funds originated from Mr Ps current account and it isnt known how the 
funds would have been used, and Mr P has been deprived of the use of those funds. 
This should be paid from the date of the loss to the date of the settlement.  
 If Starling Bank Limited is legally required to deduct tax from the savings interest, it should send 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it back from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. Starling 
Bank Limited must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman