DRN-3853462
The complaint
Mr S complains about a letter he received from Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited saying that he hadnt paid a monthly premium for his whole of life policy. 
What happened
Mr S received a letter from Sun Life saying that he hadnt paid the premium for his whole of 
life policy for February 2022. Mr S complained saying that he had paid the premium and that 
Sun Life was wrong.
Sun Life looked into the complaint and offered £50 for the trouble and upset of what 
happened. They explained they had received the premium but that the letter had been sent 
due to a problem with their systems. They went on to reassure Mr S that his policy was up to 
date and they withdrew the allegation that the payment hadnt been made. Sun Life went on 
to say that because of the system problem Mr S may receive further similar letters but that 
he shouldnt be alarmed and that his policy was in force and wouldnt be cancelled. 
Mr S was unhappy with this response so brought his complaint to our service where one of 
our Investigators considered what happened. Whilst appreciating the frustration of the 
situation they thought the £50 offer was fair.
Mr S didnt agree saying this wasnt the first time the problem had happened. Mr S also 
raised a lot of other complaint points about the policy. Our Investigator looked at everything 
Mr S said however still thought the £50 offer was fair. They explained that the other 
complaint points raised by Mr S had already been looked at by our service and were subject 
to two previous ombudsman final decisions. Because of this we wouldnt be looking into 
those issues again.
Remaining unhappy Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the 
matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided a lot of information about his complaint and I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. 
Ive summarised some of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Also Ill only be addressing the problem of the letter about the missed premium payment as 
this is the complaint Sun Life received and investigated. When dealing with our Investigator 
Mr S made a lot of other complaint points that have been the subject of previous 
investigations and decisions. Because weve previously looked at those points, and because 
they didnt originally form part of this particular complaint which was addressed in the final 
response letter from Sun Life, I wont be addressing those issues. 
Sun Life agrees that the letter Mr S received was an error. In their final response letter they 
apologise for the error and explain this happened because of problems with the systems 
which they were working to fix. They assured Mr S that the payment had been received, 
confirmed that the policy was still in force, and withdrew the allegation that the payment 
wasnt received. Sun Life offered a payment of £50 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S didnt accept the offer of £50 telling our Investigator the penalty for any second offence 
must be significantly greater than for a one-off offence. I agree this isnt the first time Mr S 
has had problems with letters like this. However its my role to look at the impact of what 
happened and not to punish a business for mistakes. So whilst I can understand the 
frustration of the same mistake happening more than once its the impact of what happened 
now that I must consider. 
The error caused Mr S some concern though I note that Sun Life had previously explained 
they were aware of the problem and had said that further letters might be received about the 
issue. It was annoying for Mr S that the mistake had happened again but he had been made 
aware that such letters could be ignored.  
Looking at everything that happened Im satisfied £50 is a fair and reasonable payment for 
the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
For the inconvenience caused by what happened Sun Life should pay Mr S £50.
My final decision
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited has already made an offer to pay 
£50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay 
Mr S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman