DRN-2280798
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society changed her personal contact details to 
those of her husband, with difficult consequences for her family.
What happened
Mrs L said she had opened a new account in her sole name with Nationwide. She hadnt 
discussed this with her husband. After the account had been set up successfully, she tried to 
log on to the account. But the authentication codes were sent to her husbands phone. She 
didnt realise until she had tried to log in several times that the phone number the codes 
were being sent to wasnt hers. 
Mrs L said that she contacted Nationwide immediately. It confirmed that the phone number 
and email address had been changed to those shes identified as her husbands.
Mrs L said she was horrified that this can happen. She had now explained to her husband 
what the account is for and why she has it. Mrs L said Nationwide had offered her £125 in 
compensation, but it hadnt said it would make sure this didnt happen again, and it hadnt 
taken account of the trouble this had caused. Mrs L wanted Nationwide to pay her £1,000.
Nationwide said it had changed the data on Mrs Ls file on 12 March 2020, when it updated 
the email address and phone number. The information came from a third party associated 
with Nationwide, and appears to have been supplied as part of a mortgage application made 
by a broker.
Our investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. She said Nationwide had 
confirmed the data came from a mortgage application, and Mrs L had confirmed that her 
financial advisor was trying to find a better mortgage deal for her and her husband at the 
time. Her husbands details were recorded against her name as part of that application, and 
those details then updated the Nationwide database. That was what had gone wrong here. 
Nationwide had apologised, and said this shouldnt happen. It had made sure her records 
with the mortgage company were also updated. 
Our investigator explained that Nationwide was now offering a further £125, for a total of 
£250 in total compensation. Our investigator thought that was fair. She sympathised with 
Mrs Ls position, but she said that were not able to compel the bank to alter its procedures 
or make it improve the level of service it offers. So she couldnt comment on the connection 
between the systems of the mortgage company and Nationwide, and the way in which this 
error occurred. She said she thought that Nationwides offer was fair and reasonable.
Mrs L didnt agree, she said that she thought that a further £125 wasnt enough for the 
serious breach that had occurred. She wanted her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
Mrs L then contacted us to say that her husband was still getting marketing emails from 
Nationwide, and he was very angry about this, as he has no business with Nationwide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that this complaint has caused difficulties for Mrs L and her family. I think thats 
really unfortunate, and Im very sorry to hear about these difficulties. 
But I dont think that whats gone wrong here is quite as extensive a problem as Mrs L fears. 
Shes said that the way Nationwide updates details for its customers means that it can add 
anyones details to someone elses account, with only the smallest connection. I dont think 
thats what has happened here. 
A mortgage application was made jointly for Mrs L and her husband. As part of that 
application, contact details were taken for Mrs L. I understand those were supplied by a 
broker. Nationwide is linked to that mortgage company, and when it noticed different, 
updated details for her, it updated her own records with it. 
So the only reason that Nationwide updated its details, was because someone else, perhaps 
Mrs Ls broker acting on her behalf, had given a linked business these contact details for 
her. I dont think that implies that new contact details can be added to any account, with only 
the smallest connection. 
I do realise that this had serious implications, in this particular case. But I dont think its 
solely Nationwides fault that this has gone wrong. And I dont think it couldve realised what 
the implications of this might be for Mrs L. 
For those reasons, I think the offer it has made is fair. 
Mrs L then told us that her husband was still getting marketing information from Nationwide, 
and he was very angry about this. We have asked Nationwide about this, to see if it has 
arisen from the same issues as this complaint. Nationwide says it doesnt. It has indicated 
that Mrs Ls husband has a customer profile with it, so it doesnt think its making a mistake 
by continuing to email him. 
I dont think our service can make any formal finding on this issue, as Nationwide hasnt 
been given a chance to respond to a complaint on this yet. Mrs Ls husband can complain 
about this to Nationwide if he wishes to do so.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mrs L £250 in compensation. 
It can count towards that amount any money it has already paid Mrs L for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman