DRN-2570611
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service and information provided by Zurich Assurance Ltd in 
relation to surrendering his policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage endowment policy with Zurich in late 1999 over a 25-year term.
In 2013, he complained about the sale and post-sales service/advice hed received from 
Zurich. It upheld some of his complaint points, offering him compensation for the sale of the 
policy. And it explained that Mr C had six months to refer the matter to our service if he was 
unhappy with its response. Mr C didnt refer the matter onto us, and I understand that he 
accepted Zurichs compensation.
In late May 2019, Mr C started to make enquiries about surrendering his policy  and he 
went ahead with this in June 2019. He complained to Zurich that he was suspicious about 
the change in valuation over that period. Zurich explained that, as the policy was unit linked, 
the value could change on a daily basis. It also said it hadnt given Mr C advise about 
whether to surrender his policy. So it didnt uphold this complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred the matter to our service. As well as the 
surrender value hed complained to Zurich about, he raised wider questions about how the 
policy worked. 
Our investigator explained he couldnt consider all of Mr Cs concerns and queries, as some 
related to the way the policy had been sold/set up as well as the general service received 
over the years. And Mr C was outside the six months referral period following Zurichs 
response in 2013 relating to those issues. But he explained he could consider the issues 
surrounding the surrender of the policy. He wasnt persuaded that the change in value was 
suspicious, given the way these policies fluctuate in line with market performance. Nor did 
he think Zurich had otherwise acted improperly or mismanaged the policy. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr C initially said he wouldnt proceed with the complaint. But after receiving a letter from 
another bank, and asked our service to review this case in light of that. He said he thought 
Zurich was hiding something. Our investigator explained that the letter Mr C had received 
from another bank had no relation to this case. But as requested, he arranged for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Its now been passed to me to consider.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Before explaining my findings, Ill set out the scope of what I can consider within this 
decision.
As our investigator noted, some of Mr Cs questions and concerns  such as those about the 
information received over the years about the policy value  go beyond the complaint he 
referred to us. I can only consider those concerns he put forward to Zurich as responded to 
in the final response letter it issued in August 2019. 
Additionally, the Financial Ombudsman Service is subject to statutory rules contained in the 
DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook (available online). If a business 
doesnt consent, were not allowed to consider a complaint if its referred to us more than six 
months after the date the final response letter was sent. DISP Rule 2.8.2(1) sets out the six-
month time limit; and clarifies that it applies unless the business consents or there are 
exceptional circumstances for the delay. 
If Mr C was unhappy with Zurichs response to the concerns he raised in 2013, including the 
sale of the policy and the service received up to that point, he had six months from Zurichs 
final responses in November 2013 to refer those to our service. Zurich hasnt consented to 
us considering those concerns, nor has Mr C made us aware of any exceptional 
circumstances that prevented him from referring them to us in time. So our service cant 
consider the complaints Zurich responded to in November 2013.
What I can and will consider within this decision are Mr Cs concerns relating to the 
surrender of his policy. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs policy was a unit-linked mortgage endowment. That means his premiums were used 
to purchase units in the fund the policy was invested in. So the policy value was dependent 
on the performance of the fund. As that changed constantly, so did the value of the policy.
I therefore dont consider it inherently suspicious that the policy fluctuated over the period 
from 30 May 2019  when Mr C initially checked the surrender value  to 5 June 2019  
when the surrender was processed. Thats to be expected with this type of policy. And the 
surrender form Ive seen, completed by Zurich during the surrender call, suggests Mr C was 
told that the value would be taken from the next working day  so could change. 
I can also see that Zurichs final response set out the unit prices and the number of units 
Mr C held at the point of the valuations, to help him understand what determined these. After 
checking the surrender value on 30 May 2019, Mr C made a direct debit payment into the 
policy the following day. Im satisfied that payment was applied correctly, as the breakdown 
given for the value on 3 June 2019 shows a higher number of units. But unfortunately, the 
unit price had dropped. So the policy fell in value. Ive not seen anything to substantiate that 
this was due to an error by Zurich.Id also note that, by giving Mr C the valuations as requested, Im satisfied Zurich wasnt 
giving Mr C advice. It was for him to decide whether to surrender the policy, and he could 
have taken separate financial advice on this if he wished. Zurichs role was to provide the 
valuations and process the surrender when requested  as it did. Im satisfied with how it 
handled this. As mentioned, the surrender form suggests Zurich was clear with Mr C about 
the timeframe and the potential for the surrender value to change. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Zurich was negligent in how it managed this 
policy. Ultimately this was an investment, so there was an element of risk and the value 
could change up until the surrender was processed. I note the surrender value Mr C 
ultimately received was higher than the valuations given previously. And the increase was 
higher than the payment he made on 1 June 2019. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr C. But based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
that Zurich acted in error, nor that he lost out. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman