DRN-3986419
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a claim 
she made under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A has a policy with D&G which provides breakdown cover, accidental damage cover, 
and unlimited repairs for a games console. Mrs A purchased the policy at the same time as 
she brought the console, and it renewed again in August 2022. 
Mrs A says she purchased a games console for her daughter in August 2019. She says the 
console keeps freezing and cant be used properly, so she reported it to her insurer. 
Mrs A was advised to take the item to the post office to return it for repair. But Mrs A suffers 
with serious health issues and was unable to return the item to the post office. 
So D&G arranged for the item to be collected from Mrs As home. But on the day it was 
supposed to be collected Mrs A was in hospital so the item couldnt be returned.
Mrs A has explained that the stress of her child not being able to play the console has been 
considerable. She says the stress of dealing with the claim has had a big impact on her 
health. She believes she should be paid compensation to purchase a new console and 
games, and to reflect the inconvenience caused to her. 
D&G accepted it provided Mrs A with incorrect information regarding her having to take the 
console to the post office. It said it would be able to arrange for a courier to collect the item if 
that was more convenient for Mrs A. It said it hadnt had the opportunity to assess the 
console since the item hasnt been returned. D&G confirmed the item can still be repaired by 
arranging a collection. It said in the absence of an assessment of the item it would be unable 
to proceed with the claim. 
Mrs A complained to D&G. Her complaint was upheld but Mrs A was unhappy with the 
outcome and the fact that she is still paying for the policy. And so she brought her complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into things for her. He said he didnt think D&G had 
acted unfairly when trying to arrange the repair for Mrs A and so he didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with the investigators view. She said she is still paying insurance 
premiums for a faulty game console and she didnt think her health issues had been taken 
into consideration. Mrs A wants a refund of her premiums and compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience. 
Because Mrs A didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs A. Ill explain my reasons below. 
I can see this matter has had a significant impact on Mrs A. She has strong views about 
what has happened and I can empathise with her. Her health issues have clearly been very 
difficult for her and her family to deal with. 
I want to assure Mrs A I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. My 
role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
For me to say D&G should accept and process Mrs As claim I need to be satisfied it has 
done something wrong. And to decide this Ive thought about the requirements D&G set out 
in its terms and conditions, as well as its internal business processes, against the 
information Mrs A has already provided it to conclude whether I think it has done something 
wrong. 
The nature of Mrs As policy with D&G is to cover repairs resulting from accidental damage 
or breakdown of the games console. The policy says in the event the item breaks down D&G 
will, arrange a repair, arrange a replacement or cover the cost of replacing your product in 
vouchers. 
As the insurer, D&G are responsible for assessing Mrs As claim. In order to do this it needs 
to inspect the console to ascertain whether it can be repaired or replaced. I have listened to 
the calls between Mrs A and D&G. In the calls D&G have tried to assist Mrs A by arranging 
for her to return the console. When it became apparent she was unable to return the console 
D&G arranged for a courier to collect it. Its unfortunate Mrs A was in hospital when the 
courier came to collect the item. However I cant say D&G were responsible for this or ought 
to have known she was not available at the time. 
D&G have confirmed that as part of their internal business process it needs to validate the 
claim by inspecting the item. I dont think this is unreasonable as it protects D&G from paying 
out for a working console, and Id expect D&G to mitigate its risks where possible. I dont 
think its an unreasonable request for D&G to validate the claim, and I dont think its acted 
unfairly in not processing Mrs A claim until this is done. 
Mrs A says she is paying an insurance premium for a games console which doesnt work. 
But D&G have attempted to inspect the item. And Mrs A has had the benefit of insurance 
cover for the period. So I cant fairly ask D&G to return the premiums.
I cant say D&G have acted unfairly in its handling of the claim. It has attempted to assist Mrs 
A by arranging for the item to be collected by courier. It has told us it is still able to arrange 
this if Mrs A wants to proceed with the repair. 
I am sorry to hear of the health issues Mrs A has suffered, and I empathise with her. But I 
cant ask D&G to pay a claim which it hasnt assessed. 
So because of the above I dont think Mrs A has provided D&G with evidence that shows 
shes actioned its request regarding returning the console. And I can see D&G have 
attempted to assist Mrs A by collecting the console knowing the issues shes had with her 
health. So I dont think I can say D&G have acted unfairly, or unreasonably, in not 
processing her claim and so I dont think it needs to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman