DRN-3846440
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HUB Financial Solutions Limited (HUB FS) mis-sold her an equity 
release mortgage. 
What happened
In 2015 HUB FS  formerly Just Retirement Solutions Ltd  recommended that Mrs B should 
take out an equity release mortgage.
Mrs Bs daughter complains that HUB FS did not give Mrs B proper advice. She said that 
Mrs B was not in the right frame of mind when she took the loan and that she relied on her 
late husband to deal with financial matters. HUB FS did not explain how an equity release 
mortgage worked  and in particular about how interest was applied and how it would 
increase over the term of the loan because it was rolled up. Mrs Bs daughter said that Mrs B 
would never have taken the equity release mortgage had it been explained properly.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Bs daughter did not 
accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mrs Bs daughter has told us about Mrs Bs state of mind at the time of advice. 
But we dont have any evidence that Mrs B did not have mental capacity to manage her own 
affairs at the time in question or that there was any reason for HUB FS to consider that she 
was vulnerable.
HUB FS has provided all of its sales documents. The recommendation letter is tailored for 
Mrs B. Based on Mrs Bs stated needs and circumstances, it was reasonable for HUB FS to 
recommend an equity release mortgage.
The paperwork includes a clear and prominent explanation of how equity release mortgages 
work, that interest will be rolled up and a projection to show how the balance would increase. 
I consider it demonstrates that HUB FS explained how the mortgage worked to Mrs B and 
the impact of rolled up interest  in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Further, one of Mrs Bs stated needs was to reduce the long-term cost to her estate by 
making payments towards the mortgage, despite there being no requirement to do so. This 
supports that there was a conversation about how interest was applied and the impact of 
rolled up interest. 
I appreciate why Mrs Bs daughter feels that the equity release mortgage was not the right 
thing for her mother. But I cant see that HUB FS acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
recommending an equity release mortgage to Mrs B. It was suitable for her stated needs and 
circumstances and HUB FS provided a clear and balanced explanation of the risks and 
benefits of the mortgage.
I note Mrs Bs daughters comments about the solicitor. But the solicitor was independent of  
HUB FS. It is not responsible for any acts or omissions by the solicitor. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman