DRN-3276357
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs W complain Skipton Building Society (Skipton) unfairly applied an early 
repayment charge on their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs W says they applied for additional borrowing on their existing mortgage with 
Skipton to pay for their sons university expenses. Mr G and Mrs W says their application 
was declined despite the fact their financial situation had improved since the mortgage was 
originally approved two years earlier. Mr G and Mrs W says Skipton didnt provide a full 
explanation why the borrowing request was declined other than to say it failed a soft 
search. 
Mr G and Mrs W says they had no other option other than to secure the borrowing from 
another lender, resulting in them having to pay Skipton an early repayment charge (ERC) of 
around £3,600. 
Mr G and Mrs W says they dont feel Skipton have considered the circumstances that led 
them to re-mortgaging elsewhere, and given the background here, Skipton shouldnt have 
charged the full ERC.
Skipton says Mr Gs and Mrs Ws additional borrowing request was declined following a soft 
footprint credit search which didnt meet its lending criteria. Skipton says the ERC was 
correctly charged in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage agreement, when Mr 
G and Mrs W refinanced their mortgage elsewhere. 
Mr G and Mrs W werent happy with Skiptons response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Skipton were entitled to decline Mr Gs and Mrs Ws additional mortgage 
application, as it didnt meet its credit policy. The investigator says Skipton fairly applied the 
ERC when the mortgage was redeemed, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage agreement Mr G and Mrs W had signed. 
Mr G and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr G and Mrs W to be informed their 
request for additional mortgage borrowing had been declined, and then to be charged a 
sizeable ERC when they decided to re-mortgage elsewhere.
The first thing to say here is Mr G and Mrs W have now told this service although they dont 
agree with Skiptons decision to decline their additional mortgage borrowing request, their 
complaint centres around the fairness of it charging the ERC as they had no other option, 
other than to take their mortgage elsewhere. 
So when looking at this complaint, I will consider if Skipton acted reasonably when it charged 
the ERC following the repayment of Mr Gs and Mrs Ws mortgage, after it declined their 
additional borrowing request.
Here, Mr G and Mrs W applied for additional borrowing on their mortgage account with 
Skipton to fund their sons university fees. I can see that this was declined by Skipton on the 
basis of the result of a soft credit search. Mr G and Mrs W are not asking me to comment on 
whether that decision was correct or not, but all I will say is Skipton are able to decline such 
additional borrowing requests if it feels the request doesnt meet its lending criteria. 
Mr G and Mrs W says Skipton havent fairly considered the background as to why they re-
mortgaged elsewhere, and it should. Mr G and Mrs W says Skipton left them with no other 
option but to re-mortgage elsewhere. Mr G and Mrs W says they could understand the ERC 
if it was simply a case of them trying to improve the terms of their mortgage, but that wasnt 
the case here. 
I understand the points Mr G and Mrs W make here, but Im not fully persuaded by their 
argument. Its worth saying the ERC was detailed in the original mortgage offer and Mr G 
and Mrs W would have been aware it was payable should they repay their mortgage before 
the expiry of the fixed interest rate term. 
Its also worth saying theres no evidence to suggest having declined Mr Gs and Mrs Ws 
request for additional mortgage borrowing, Skipton then told Mr G and Mrs W to re-mortgage 
their existing mortgage borrowing elsewhere. That decision was taken by Mr G and Mrs W to 
raise the extra monies they say they needed. I cant hold Skipton responsible for the 
decision Mr G and Mrs W took, and I am satisfied its not unreasonable for Skipton to 
recover any costs it may have incurred, when breaking a fixed interest rate product, like it did 
here. 
Its also worth mentioning that re-mortgaging with a new provider may not have been the 
only option available to Mr G and Mrs W, as there are lenders in the market who provide 
second mortgages or unsecured loans and its not clear that option was ever explored by 
them.
While Mr G and Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Skipton here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman