DRN-2485292
The complaint
Mr B says that he was mis-sold a mattress and that, because the purchase was financed 
with a loan from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, it is equally liable with the retailer.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B bought a mattress from a retailer, C. The mattress cost nearly 
£1,200, and Mr B paid for it with a loan from Hitachi Capital.
Mr B says that he had wanted to buy a memory foam mattress, but C did not stock them. It 
recommended a similar product instead. Mr B found that this was not comfortable, however, 
and exchanged it. The second mattress was also uncomfortable, and a second exchange 
was agreed. The third mattress was however priced lower than the first one. Mr B thinks he 
should be refunded the difference in price. He says, in summary, that he was talked into the 
initial purchase and sold a mattress that was not suitable for him. 
C and Hitachi Capital said that Mr B was entitled to exchange the mattress within 60 days if 
it wasnt suitable for him. There was no obligation to offer a second exchange, but C did so 
as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service, as a complaint about Hitachi Capital. Having 
provided the finance for the mattress, it was liable in the same way as C. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that Mr Bs 
complaint be upheld. She was not persuaded that C was in breach of contract, and so there 
was no basis on which Hitachi Capital could be liable for Mr Bs losses. Mr B did not agree 
and asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the purchase of the mattress was financed by a loan provided by Hitachi Finance to 
Mr B, Hitachi Finance is, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, equally liable 
with C for any claim Mr B may have for breach of contract or misrepresentation. In order to 
decide whats fair and reasonable, therefore, I must consider Mr Bs agreement with C. 
Mr Bs contract with C was for the sale and purchase of a mattress. Because he was a 
consumer, the contract was to be read as including terms that the mattress would be of 
satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. There is no suggestion that any of the three 
mattresses was not of satisfactory quality. The first two did not suit Mr B, but that is not 
because there was anything wrong with them. 
An item is fit for purpose if it is suitable for the purpose for which such items are usually 
used. If a customer makes known any particular purpose for which an item is to be used, it 
must be fit for that purpose. There is no suggestion that Mr B intended to use, or did use, the 
mattresses other than for their usual purpose. There is no suggestion either that any of the 
mattresses was not fit for purpose. It was simply that Mr B did not find them comfortable.     
I accept that Mr B said he wanted a particular type of mattress. That is not, however, what 
he was sold, and C did not suggest otherwise. It delivered what Mr B had, after discussion 
with the store, agreed to buy; Mr B, through the loan, paid the agreed price. 
Mr Bs contract with Mr B included a 60-night comfort guarantee. That entitled him to swap 
the mattress if he did not find it comfortable. The guarantee was, however, limited to one 
exchange and said expressly that, if the replacement mattress was less expensive than the 
original, no refund would be given. In allowing Mr B a second exchange, therefore, C was 
going further than it was required to do under the terms of its contract with Mr B.  
Mr B has suggested that he was mis-sold the first mattress. I take that to mean that he was 
misled in some way about it or some other matter. As Ive explained, he was not misled 
about the mattress itself, or its replacement. He received what he was told he would receive. 
Mr B says however that he was told C did not stock a memory foam mattress. Had he not 
been told that, Mr B says, he would not have chosen the first mattress.
I am satisfied however that C did not supply a memory foam mattress. The third mattress 
supplied to Mr B was a hybrid foam and sprung mattress, not a full memory foam mattress. 
In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that Mr B has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against C. It follows that Hitachi Capital does not have any liability to him.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman