DRN-1651448
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society  trading as Staffordshire Building Society 
(Nationwide) - mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) in connection with her 
mortgage.
Background
In 1993 Mrs S took out a mortgage and PPI was added to the account. The policy cost £6.60 
a month and it provided a benefit to cover her mortgage repayments. Upon a successful 
claim the policy would have paid out for both accident/sickness and unemployment for up to 
18 months per claim. 
Mrs Ss PPI policy ended in 1999 and the mortgage was redeemed in 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S disagrees so the complaint comes to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to handling 
complaints about PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Nationwide says this was a non-advised sale. This means Nationwide had to provide Mrs S 
with good enough information about the policy so she could make an informed decision 
about it. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
Did Nationwide make it clear to Mrs S that she had a choice about PPI?
Mrs S and Nationwide agree that the policy was sold during a meeting. During that meeting 
Nationwide should have taken reasonable steps to make sure Mrs S was aware the policy 
was optional. Mrs S says she was told the policy was compulsory for her obtain the 
mortgage. 
The only evidence I have from the sale of the PPI is limited documents that Nationwide has 
been able to produce  which isnt surprising bearing in mind how long ago the sale took 
place and businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. The documents I do 
have include a copy of Mrs S mortgage application and a sample copy of a PPI application 
which Nationwide says Mrs S would have completed and what Mrs S has told us.  
This sale took place over 20 years ago. But it seems more likely Nationwide gave Mrs S the 
opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of her mortgage application, and that 
she chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. I say 
this because this service has no evidence of Nationwide systemically telling consumers they 
had to have PPI at this time and Mrs S could have cancelled the PPI at any time, but she kept it for until 1999. And had she chosen not to purchase PPI in 1993, or had it been added 
to her account without either her knowledge or consent, I would have expected her to query 
or challenge this shortly afterwards. I say because I think its likely that either the PPI cost 
was shown separately on her statements or it made her monthly repayments £6.60 higher 
than the monthly cost of the advance she would have seen in her loan offer. 
So, I think it is more likely than not Nationwide presented the PPI to Mrs S as optional and 
she chose to take it out. 
Did things happen as they should have done  was Mrs S properly informed?  If not  
has Mrs S lost out?
I dont know what information Mrs S was given about PPI. I dont know whether the policys 
benefits were explained to her or if the significant exclusions and limitations of cover were 
highlighted to her. I find it unlikely Mrs S agreed to take the cover out knowing very little 
about it, but I dont know if she received everything she needed to know to allow her to make 
an informed decision.
So, I accept its possible that things did not happen as they should have done when Mrs S 
took the PPI out. I accept Mrs S may not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mrs S have lost out as a result. I say this 
because, given Mrs Ss circumstances and needs in 1993, I think the policy cover was 
suitable for her. And I find it unlikely that Mrs S would have acted differently and not gone 
ahead with the cover if Nationwide had provided better information. My reasons are as 
follows:
Mrs S was eligible for the cover and all its benefits.
Mrs S was employed and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear she would 
have been affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations of the cover such as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual employment terms. 
The mortgage provided cover for her home. Mrs S had some sick pay and 
redundancy pay entitlement from her employer and she had some savings which 
could have helped her make the mortgage payments if she was off work ill or lost her 
job. But the policy would have paid out within 60 days in addition to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay and for up to 18 months for each claim. So, I think Mrs S had a need 
for her cover and that it would have been useful to her if Mrs S had been unable to 
work. It could have helped her financially at what would be a difficult time - it could 
have helped her protect her home.
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented to Mrs S, but I find it unlikely she 
would have agreed to something without having some understanding of the cost. And 
I think its unlikely she would have declined it solely on the basis of its cost had it 
been made clearer to her. Ive already said she had a need for it and at just £6.60 per 
month it appears to have been affordable. And as she were paying for the PPI 
monthly, she could cancel it without further cost if at any stage her situation changed, 
or she no longer wanted it.
 
So overall, while I accept there may have been failings in the way the PPI was sold and Mrs 
S may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Nationwide in its dealings with her, I 
find shes not lost out. This is because for the reasons Ive detailed above, I think  Mrs S 
chose to take out the PPI and she would have been in the same position if Nationwide had 
done more and properly advised and informed her - I think she would have still taken it out.I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing to Mrs S. I know shes put a lot of time 
and effort into her complaint and feels strongly it was mis-sold to her. Its always difficult to 
decide a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs S 
has said and what I know of Nationwides sales processes. And I dont think  on balance  I 
can fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Ive decided that Mrs S hasnt lost out as a result of taking out 
PPI with her mortgage, so I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman