DRN-2186941
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the offer made to her by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)
when two bathroom tiles were damaged in the course of a repair.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this matter and did not receive any further 
information from Ms D or BG that causes me to vary my decision.
What happened
The background to this matter is known to both Ms D and BG and doesnt appear to be in
dispute.
Briefly stated, BG visited Ms Ds property on 29 January 2019 to repair a toilet. During the
repair two tiles were damaged, leaving a hairline crack. BG couldnt source identical tiles to
enable it to make a repair (the original tiles were fitted in 1997) and on 8 March 2019 offered
Ms D a cash settlement of £250. When Ms D didnt respond to BGs offer, it closed the
complaint.
Ms D contacted BG again in September 2019. She informed it that its cash settlement of
£250 wouldnt cover the cost of re-tiling the bathroom, which is what would be required to
return the bathroom to its previous condition. BG maintained its position.
When Ms D pursued the matter, BG stated that re-tiling the whole bathroom was 
disproportionate to the damage sustained, and in accordance with decisions made by this 
service, it would only be liable for the approximate cost of replacing the two damaged tiles 
plus a contribution of 50% towards any undamaged items. It asked her to provide an 
estimate. Ms D provided an estimate for £2,900 + VAT.
BG then advised Ms D that a repair of the cracked tiles might be possible using a specialist
contractor (contractor M) to make an invisible fix. When Ms D rejected this offer, BG raised
its cash settlement offer to £295. Ms D also rejected this.
As Ms D wasnt satisfied with BGs final offer, she brought her complaint to this service. Our
investigator provided an initial view which was that it would be fair for BG to repay the cost of
the two damaged tiles and contribute 50% to replacing the undamaged tiles.
In response to this, BG submitted that given the extent of the damage it should be given the
opportunity to at least attempt a repair in the first instance. It says that contractor M has a
record of good results in repairing damaged tiles. This would save a lot of upheaval for Ms
D and if successful would put her back in the position she was in. Ms D is unhappy that this
offer wasnt made in February 2019 rather than in November. BG increased its settlement
offer to £295 if Ms D rejected an attempt to perform an invisible fix.
Our investigators revised view was that BGs offer to attempt to repair the two tiles was fair,
and that if the repair were to be unsuccessful then it would be reasonable for BG to pay the
cost of the two damaged tiles and cover 50% of the undamaged tiles.
Ms D wasnt satisfied with this view and so asked that her complaint be considered by an
ombudsman. It was referred to me, and I made a provisional decision as my view differed 
from that of our investigator. Both BG and Ms D are in substantial agreement with that 
decision. Im therefore issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BG has accepted its responsible for the cracks to two tiles. It hasnt been able to source
matching replacements. I think its reasonable for Ms D to expect BG to return her bathroom
to an undamaged state. But I dont think its fair or proportionate to the nature of the damage
to expect BG to pay for the whole of Ms Ds bathroom to be re-tiled. Ms Ds bathroom had
last been tiled 23 years ago, so I think retiling would result in betterment.
I think its fair for BG to be allowed an opportunity to see if contractor M can do a satisfactory
repair. If such repair is satisfactory to Ms D, acting reasonably, I think it would be fair for BG
to also pay her £300 for the fact that the possibility of such a repair wasnt raised in February
2019, and that since then her disagreement with BG as to what was a fair resolution to the
problem has continued and has involved reference to this service.
If any invisible repair is not reasonably satisfactory to Ms D, then I think it would be
reasonable for BG to be required to contribute half the cost of retiling Ms Ds bathroom with
new tiles of a similar type to the originals. If Ms D wishes to have superior and more costly
tiles, then I dont think that BG should be required to pay any more than it would if similar
tiles had been chosen.
If re-tiling is necessary, the choice of contractor to undertake the work should be agreed
between BG and Ms D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Ms D should permit British Gas Insurance Limited to arrange for a repair to be attempted on 
the damaged tiles. Such repair should be attempted within 30 days of the date upon which 
Ms D accepts my decision unless a longer period is agreed with Ms D.
If such repair is satisfactory to Ms D, British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Ms D 
compensation of £300 within 21 days of completion of the repair.
If such repair is not satisfactory, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 50% of the 
cost of re-tiling Ms Ds bathroom based upon the use of new tiles of a similar type to the 
originals, the said work to be undertaken by a contractor acceptable to both British Gas 
Insurance Limited and Ms D. In these circumstances British Gas Insurance Limited is not 
required to pay compensation to Ms D.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman