DRN-1700894
The complaint
Mr B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold packaged bank account.
Mr B has said that he was told he could only have a loan or overdraft if he upgraded to the 
packaged bank account.
What happened
Mr B opened a fee-free account in October 1993. This was upgraded to a fee-paying 
Advantage Gold packaged bank account in February 1999. 
NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold from its range of accounts and transferred all 
Advantage Gold accounts, including Mr Bs, to a Select Platinum account in July 2015. As 
this was essentially a rebranding of the account, weve not treated this change as a separate 
sale of an account.
Our adjudicator assessed Mr Bs complaint and concluded that NatWest hadnt mis-sold the 
packaged bank account. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think NatWest mis-sold the packaged account to Mr B. 
Id like to explain why I think thats the case.
At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters are in dispute, as they are here, 
I have to make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in 
working out what I think is most likely to have happened, I have to think about everything I've 
been told together with everything else I've been provided with and see how this fits with 
what I do know. In other words, what I have to do is decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened, having weighed up what Mr B and NatWest have been able to provide me with.
In his response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr B said that he was told if he wanted to 
keep his overdraft and if he wanted loans in the future, it would make it more likely any 
application for further borrowing would be accepted by having an Advantage Gold account.
In our complaint form, Mr B says he was told he could only have a loan or overdraft with a 
packaged account and not on his fee-free account. In our questionnaire, Mr B says he went 
to the bank to discuss his finances and the possibility of getting a loan, he says he was told if 
he wanted a loan or overdraft then or in the future, he would have to take out a packaged 
account as it would be more beneficial. In the Questionnaire Mr B also says that he was told 
if he wanted a loan or to increase his overdraft, he would have to have a packaged account. 
Conversely, in NatWests final response letter, it said that Mr B had complained his account 
was mis-sold because, he was told to upgrade his account to get a loan and that the loan 
would receive a 1% discount as well as a reduced interest rate on his overdraft as a result of 
having the packaged account. It said Mr B had also complained that he wasnt told about the 
benefits that came with the account and hed not used the benefits.
I think its clear from everything that Mr B has told us that having an overdraft and obtaining 
a loan, either immediately or in the near future was important to him at the time. Prior to 
upgrading his account to the Advantage Gold account, I can see that Mr B had held a £700 
overdraft for a number of years and this overdraft was increased to £850 in July 1998 - 
which makes me think that Mr B was aware he could have an overdraft, and increase his 
limit, on a fee-free account at the time.
I note that in February 1999 the Advantage Gold cost £6 per month. And I understand it 
provided 1% discounts on loans and preferential interest rates on overdrafts. And having the 
Advantage Gold account meant that Mr B would not have to pay arranged overdraft fees or 
monthly overdraft usage fees either.
Therefore having weighed everything up, I think its more likely that Mr B was sold the 
account because the banking benefits it provided couldve been of use to him, rather than 
because he was misled into thinking he had no choice but to do so to keep or extend any 
borrowing.
NatWest says it sold the account to Mr B without a recommendation, whereas Mr B says it 
was recommended to him. But even if I thought that the account was recommended to Mr B, 
I dont think it was necessarily inappropriate to suggest he upgrade his account to an 
Advantage Gold account. I say this because it appears that he was intending to take out a 
loan (although I appreciate he didnt get round to doing so until sometime later) and so could 
benefit from a reduced interest rate. And he was clearly relying on his overdraft at the time, 
given that hed increased his limit only 7 months before, and again he could get a reduced 
interest rate and avoid incurring some overdraft charges by having the Advantage Gold 
account.
I appreciate that Mr B may not have needed, or used, the other features that were available 
with the account at the time, such as extended warranty or purchase protection cover. But as 
it was sold as a package, Mr B could not pick and choose what it came with, so it doesnt 
mean it was mis-sold if he didnt use all of the benefits that it came with. And whilst I cant be 
sure if NatWest gave Mr B all of the information about the account that it shouldve, Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think Mr B wouldve been put off from upgrading his account, 
had he been given even more information about it at the time.
Therefore, based on everything that has been said and provided, and when considering 
what I think was more likely than not to have happened at the time, I cant reasonably 
conclude that the Advantage gold account was mis-sold to Mr B. So I think it would be 
inappropriate in the circumstances to require NatWest to refund Mr Bs Advantage Gold 
account fees or pay him compensation, as he has requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman