DRN-3487003
The complaint
Miss G complains through her representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly 
provided her with a high cost loan that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Miss G with a loan for £1,000 on 6 October 2015 repayable over 36 
months at the rate of £48.63 a month. She paid off the loan in time by September 2018. She 
later complained to AvantCredit about irresponsible lending.
AvantCredit said it carried out all necessary checks, including obtaining a credit report, 
verifying Miss Gs income, and considering one months bank statement. It assessed that the 
loan was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that after taking 
account of her expenses and credit commitments, Miss G would have been left with a 
negative disposable income. So she didnt believe the loan was affordable.
AvantCredit disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
G would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss G would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Gs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
AvantCredit hasnt provided a full copy of the credit report that it obtained at the time of 
Miss Gs loan application. I have seen a credit report obtained later (in 2018) but I have 
decided to follow the figures for income and the breakdown of Miss Gs credit commitments 
set out by AvantCredit in its response to us. I think to be fair, I should also use AvantCredits 
calculations.
AvantCredit verified that Miss G had an income of £1,700. Miss G declared that she had 
outgoings of £1,330. Whilst AvantCredit has said that it expected that figure to include some 
if not all of her credit expenses, from the calculation set out in its file that cant be the case. I 
set out the figures here:
Mortgage/rent £700
Council Tax £135
Utilities £  65
Auto £  80
Other £350
Total £1,330
Since this breakdown doesnt set out any figure for general living expenses like food, I think 
it fair to assume that the Other £350 figure is intended to cover this.
As for credit commitments AvantCredit says that after taking its loan Miss G would have a 
new monthly credit commitment payment at an estimated £727.95, which is about 42% of 
Miss Gs income. I think that figure was high and an indicator that Miss G couldnt afford the 
new loan.Having established that the monthly expense figure of £1,330 is to be added to the credit 
commitments figure, this amounts to over £2,050, which gives a negative disposable income 
of over £300. AvantCredit estimates that Miss G had a disposable monthly income of £321, 
but that doesnt take account of any of her credit commitments. Whilst Miss G could have 
reduced her commitments by paying off some of these with the loan, Ive seen no indication 
that AvantCredit took that into account or that it sought to arrange payment of any other 
loans before releasing the loan proceeds to her.
So I conclude that this loan was clearly unaffordable to Miss G. I dont think AvantCredit 
made a fair lending decision. 
Putting things right
Miss G has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Miss G as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Miss G has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman