DRN-1921046
 
The complaint
Ms C took out a mortgage in 1995 with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. She says 
that during this application, a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy was 
mis-sold to her because she understood she was required to have this type of cover.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Ms C its unlikely to be 
upheld. She disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. 
Ms Cs central point of complaint is that MPPI was never portrayed as optional. However, 
these events were quite some time ago now and whilst Im sure she will have provided her 
best recollection of what happened, I dont think Ms C is correct. 
We dont have the original documentation from the time of the sale, but after 25 years thats 
neither unusual nor unreasonable. And in cases where the parties dont have records I can 
directly refer to, I use my knowledge and experience to determine what is more likely to 
have happened. Ive seen, for example, quite a few similar complaints to this one and my 
general experience is that Halifax MPPI sales did tend to invite consumers like Ms C to sign 
their name in a box or otherwise make a choice if this type of cover was something they 
wanted to have alongside their mortgage. In short, I think its more likely to have been 
portrayed as optional.
Halifax accepts it recommended this cover to Ms C when they met. This too is in 
accordance with my experience of what usually took place, so it had a duty to make sure it 
was suitable for Ms Cs situation. Overall, I think it was.
This is because Ms C appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me to be 
comparable with similar policies from around that time and Ive seen nothing that suggests 
it wasnt affordable for her. 
Ms C implied she didnt need the cover because she also had sickness protection with her 
job. Ive thought very carefully about her job and the benefits Ms C told us about. But I dont 
think they made the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against Ms Cs home and 
so the consequences of her not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. 
In the event of a successful claim, the cover she bought was payable for up to 12 months 
and this would have been in addition to any other means she already had in place at the 
time. 
So although I cant say why Ms C decided to buy this policy, I dont think Halifax 
recommending it to her was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm if she was told everything she ought to have been. But I think the 
costs of the cover were probably set out on the forms she signed, as were some brief 
details about what was covered. I think she had enough information on which to make an 
informed decision.
Halifax sent me some screenshots of its computer system. Overall, I think theres evidence 
that Ms C engaged in the discussions about this sale and went through a number of steps 
to get the policy. I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman