DRN-4298482
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) delayed the transfer of his ISA from 
another provider without providing any explanation or updates. 
What happened
Mr H says he applied for an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Barclays in mid-February 
2023 and requested the transfer from another provider in mid-March 2023. Mr H says 
despite several lengthy telephone calls to Barclays, it was unable to inform him of the 
progress of the ISA transfer or where his money was, causing him severe stress and worry.
Mr H says the transfer finally took place towards the end of May 2023 even though Barclays 
had held the funds since late March 2023. Mr H says Barclays offer of compensation of £100 
plus the interest of £29.06 doesnt go anywhere near far enough to cover the stress and 
upset this matter has caused him. 
Barclays says it accepts it has caused an unnecessary delay in transferring the ISA from the 
other provider, which was caused by unprecedented demand for its new ISA products. 
Barclays also accepts it should have better communicated the problems it faced to Mr H 
during the ISA transfer process. Barclays says it has paid Mr H £29.06 to cover the interest 
lost during this period and a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Hs complaint. The 
investigator says although Barclays have accepted the poor service it provided Mr H, the 
level of compensation it has paid should be increased to £200 to fairly reflect the upset and 
inconvenience this matter caused him. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr H to have to chase 
Barclays to understand the whereabouts of the ISA transfer he had initiated from another 
provider, over a prolonged period of time. 
When looking at this complaint, given Barclays have accepted it was at fault here, I will 
consider if the level of compensation it has paid Mr H, fairly reflects the trouble and upset he 
has experienced over this matter. 
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I dont intend to repeat 
whats already been said before. What is clear is that Barclays held the ISA transfer funds 
from the other provider from late March 2023 and didnt credit Mr Hs new ISA account until 
25 May 2023, a transaction that should have been completed within 30 days. In addition to 
this from the information I have seen Mr H wasnt kept properly informed of the progress of 
his ISA transfer or where his funds were and that would have been upsetting for him. 
I can see Mr H also had to make a number of lengthy calls to determine the progress of the 
ISA transfer and Barclays have agreed it could have dealt with this more efficiently. 
Without trying to minimise the frustration this matter would have undoubtedly caused Mr H 
here, its not my role to penalise businesses when service issues like this arise but to ensure 
it apologises, puts matters right and offers an appropriate level of redress. While Barclays 
have mostly done that here, like the investigator I dont feel the level of compensation it has 
paid of £100 goes far enough and a further £100 is more appropriate, given the 
inconvenience and worry this matter has caused Mr H here.
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome.
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H a further £100 by way of compensation in 
addition to the £100 it has already paid him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H a further £100 by way of compensation in 
addition to the £100 it has already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman