DRN-2276582
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his account following a fraud 
claim.
 
What happened
On 9 September 2019 a fraud case was raised by Barclays in relation to three transactions 
that totalled £35.91. However, due to an error by Barclays, the case wasnt investigated. 
On 23 January 2019 Mr O contacted Barclays and asked about the fraud investigation. But 
no investigation had been completed and Mr O asked to complain. Barclays responded on 
26 January 2020 and apologised for making an error. Barclays confirmed that a systems 
problem meant no investigation was completed. Barclays said the £35.91 transactions had 
been refunded and offered Mr O £75 to apologise. 
Mr O referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator agreed that Barclays had made errors but thought it had dealt with Mr Os 
complaint fairly and that its offer of £75 was reasonable. 
Mr O asked to appeal and said the £75 offered doesnt reflect the unnecessary stress he 
was caused. As Mr O asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Barclays made an error on 9 September 2019 that led to Mr Os fraud 
claim being closed instead of investigated. When Mr O called Barclays to ask about the 
claim on 23 January 2020 he found out no refunds had been made and complained. 
Barclays has since refunded the payments in question and offered Mr O £75 compensation. 
My role is to decide whether Barclays has made a reasonable offer and dealt with Mr Os 
complaint fairly. 
I take Mr Os point that the claim was incorrectly closed by Barclays and would most likely 
have remained so had he not called on 23 January 2020. Im pleased that after Mr O called 
back and complained, the claim was refunded so there has been no financial loss. 
Mr O has said that the situation caused an unreasonable amount of stress. I dont doubt 
what Mr O says, but I note that Mr O made two calls about this matter. One to report the 
suspected fraud, and one to chase the claim around four months later. In addition, whilst 
fraud is always a serious concern, the amounts involved here were reasonably small. I can 
see Mr O didnt have access to the £35.91 in question for around four months, but that 
doesnt appear to have impacted his account use. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but Im satisfied Barclays offer of £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience fairly reflects the impact of its error on Mr O. Whilst I agree there was some 
inconvenience to Mr O, Im satisfied that Barclays offer recognises that and is fair in all the 
circumstances. As a result, Im not telling Barclays to increase its offer or take any further 
action. If Mr O wishes to accept the offer of £75, our investigator can contact Barclays to 
request payment on his behalf. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays has already made an offer 
that is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman