DRN-2692515
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy because Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) declined his 
credit card application.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with M&S in November 2020. He received a letter saying that 
his application had been unsuccessful as it didnt meet the credit score M&S required. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and called M&S asking why this had happened. He had been 
accepted by another card issuer and wanted to know why M&S hadnt offered him a credit 
card. 
The advisor explained that all applications to M&S are assessed using information from a 
credit reference agency, and that this, and information provided by the applicant, is used in 
M&Ss credit scoring. She went on to explain that all lenders have their own credit scoring 
systems and that this can produce different results with different lenders. She discussed the 
factors that may have affected the M&S score. She explained that Mr Ms application was 
declined through M&Ss automated system and agreed to have the decision reviewed 
manually.
Mr M spoke to a different advisor a few days later, who said that the underwriter was looking 
into it, and would call back by the end of the day.
 
The underwriter called Mr M later that day, and then tried several times over the next few 
days and left voicemails, but Mr M didnt call back, and there was no further contact with Mr 
M.
Mr M complained to M&S. M&S didnt uphold his complaint. It said that after the automated 
decision, it had been prepared to review Mr Ms application manually but hadnt been given 
the opportunity to do so, as hed cancelled his application.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and brought his case to our service. He was unhappy that M&S 
blamed their systems, and wanted an apology, and a reversal of the decision.
Our investigator said that she felt M&S had acted fairly as it was willing to review its 
automated decision, and that she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr M wasnt happy with this, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M was understandably dismayed when M&S declined his application for a credit card and 
wanted to know why this had happened. He has a good income from his pension and has 
always managed his finances well. He had also recently been accepted for a credit card by 
another card issuer. So, I can understand why he was upset.
The letter from M&S said his application didnt meet the required credit score and referred to 
information from a credit reference agency. Mr M felt this implied he was a bad credit risk. 
This isnt what the letter said, but I can understand why he would feel this way. 
Mr M rang M&S about his application. The advisor explained that credit scoring was an 
internal process, and that information from credit reference agencies was used as part of this 
process. She explained that the score is impacted by a number of factors, and that one 
factor would be the credit history of an applicant. If the applicant had limited borrowing 
history, because there would be less information, the score would be lower. The advisor 
noted that Mr M had limited borrowing history. He said he had no active borrowing but had 
been accepted for a credit card by another card issuer. From what I could hear, I think M&S 
gave a reasonable explanation of how credit scoring works and what might affect the score. 
Mr M mentioned who he banked with, and the advisor was able to carry out a manual search 
to get information about this. I can see that the addresses held by M&S and the bank 
differed in that one had a house name, but the other didnt, and that the bank account 
information hadnt been picked up by M&Ss system. The advisor said she would have the 
application officially reviewed to look at whether the decision could be overturned. This was 
fair and reasonable, and what I wouldve expected M&S to do. The advisor gave a time 
when she would call back two days later.
Mr M called M&S again two days later. The advisor who took the call said that the 
underwriter was still reviewing the case, but while on the phone, he contacted her and said 
shed call back by the end of the day. Mr M was unhappy that this review hadnt been done 
when he applied. While I can understand Mr Ms frustration, M&S was following its normal 
processes by assessing his application through its automated system in the first instance, 
and then reviewing it manually when he got in touch. So, I cant say that this was unfair or 
unreasonable.  Mr M had checked his score with the relevant credit reference agency and 
found it to be excellent and thought this meant that M&S shouldve accepted his application. 
He also said he didnt want a credit card from M&S now. The advisor tried to explain further 
about how the credit scoring process worked, and that it was an internal score. I can see that 
its difficult to understand that a high score with a credit reference agency doesnt mean 
some-one will be accepted for credit, but from what I could hear, the advisor did his best to 
explain.   
 
The underwriter needed some additional information from Mr M in order to complete the 
review, and called several times the same day, and again over the next couple of days, but 
was unable to reach Mr M.   Although M&S had left voicemails, there was no further contact 
from Mr M and M&S was unable to complete the review of its decision. 
In summary, M&S followed its normal processes in assessing Mr Ms application and was in 
the process of conducting a fair review of its decision. However, it was unable to complete 
this because it wasnt able to speak to Mr M to confirm information that it needed. In the light 
of this, I dont think M&S did anything wrong, and in reviewing its automated decision as far 
as possible, it took all reasonable steps to resolve Mr Ms complaint. In the light of this, I 
cant fairly suggest that M&S do what Mr M is asking for and reverse its decision or 
apologise to Mr M.  
I know that Mr M will be disappointed by this, but I hope he will understand my reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman