The complaint  
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a number of payments made out of 
his account, which he says he didnt make.  
What happened  
Mr D was sent to prison in July 2015. He says his now ex -wife used his Barclays bank 
account while he was in prison, but he didnt give her permission to do so. So hes disputing 
a number of payments made out of his account between July 2015 and October 2021, when 
he was released.  
Barclays investigated but said there were also a number of payments into Mr Ds account 
from his ex -wife during this time, and tha t a number of the disputed payments were for bills 
or cash withdrawals, so it appeared there had been some financial arrangement between 
Mr D and his ex -wife. It also said it couldnt see how Mr Ds ex -wife would have known the 
PIN for his card. So it didn t agree to refund the disputed payments. Barclays did offer to pay 
Mr D £250 for the delays in its investigation of his complaint through. But Mr D wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigato rs looked at the complaint. They thought it was likely Mr D had given 
authority for his ex -wife to use his account, at least in some way, while he was in prison. And 
they thought at least some of the disputed payments appeared to be made to meet Mr Ds 
financial commitments or manage his finances. So they didnt think Barclays should have to 
refund the payments Mr D had disputed. And they thought the compensation Barclays had 
paid Mr D was fair. Mr D didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that its likely Mr D had given some kind of 
authority for his ex -wife to use his account. And so I dont think it would be fair to require 
Barclays to refund the disputed payments. Ill explain why below.  
Generally speaking, a business can hold a customer liable f or disputed transactions made 
on their account if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer made the 
payments themselves, or authorised someone else to make them.  
DRN- 3904969Its not in dispute that Mr D didnt make the payments himself, as h e was in prison during the 
time when the payments were made. But it is still possible for him to have authorised 
someone else to make the payments. 
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made. 
Barclays has said the disputed payments were made using Mr Ds genuine card and PIN. 
And its also not in dispute that the payments were likely made by Mr Ds ex-wife, who had 
access to his genuine card. So the payments were correctly authenticated. 
For consent, Mr D has said he never agreed that his ex-wife could use his account. But hes 
also explained that his ex-wife was renting out space in a commercial property he owned 
and that theyd agreed that income she received from doing this would be paid into his 
account to cover outgoing payments. Hes said his ex-wife was keeping his account afloat 
and that he was expecting her to report the contents of his account statements to him. 
There are a number of payments of varying amounts going into Mr Ds account from his ex-
wife during the time the disputed payments were made, and most of the disputed payments 
are for what appear to be day- to-day expenses. 
So I think the evidence suggests there was some sort of financial arrangement between 
Mr D and his ex-wife and that, as part of this, Mr Ds ex-wife was granted access to and 
authority over his account. 
In order to remove his apparent authority, Mr D would have needed to do something to 
ensure his ex-wife didnt have access to and couldnt make payments on his account 
anymore. And I accept that when Mr D realised there were more payments on his account 
than hed expected, he took steps to contact Barclays and report this. But he doesnt appear 
to have done this until after the disputed payments had been made from his account. 
So, based on the evidence I have, I think the disputed payments were authorised and so I 
dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund them. 
I appreciate that Mr Ds ex-wife may have gone on to make transactions on the account in 
addition to what Mr D was expecting, but these would still be treated as authorised. Neither 
Barclays nor this service are in a position to determine the exact extent of the arrangement 
between Mr D and his ex-wife, particularly without the input of his ex-wife. And where there 
are allegations of financial misconduct in these kinds of relationships, the most suitable route 
can often be a financial order between the parties in court. 
Barclays has offered to pay Mr D £250 as compensation for the delays in its investigation of 
his complaint. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be 
asking Barclay to do anything further. My final decision 
For the reason s explained above, I dont uphold thi s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Servi ce, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject thi s decision before 10 October 2023 .  
Ombudsman My final decision 
For the reason s explained above, I dont uphold thi s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Servi ce, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject thi s decision before 10 October 2023 .  
Ombudsman 