DRN-3932450
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
Im aware Mr A and Mrs S are represented in this case but, for ease, Ive only referred to 
them.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs S contacted Lloyds to make a claim for storm damage to their roof. Lloyds 
sent a surveyor to assess the damage. It then declined the claim because it said the damage 
wasnt the result of a storm.
When Mr A and Mrs S complained, Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, 
they complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on the basis the damage wasnt the result of a 
one-off storm.
As Mr A and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the claim and these show local 
windspeeds of up to 64mph. I also think a storm could cause damage to a roof. So, I think 
the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question on whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. Im aware Mr A and Mrs S have said they are only concerned about the damage to 
the flat roof and the interior damage. So, this is what Ive focussed on.
The surveyor assessed the flat roof. The report said:
On inspecting the felt in the front garden there was evidence of previous repairs with silver 
tape and it would appear the roof has been suffering from material breakdown over a period 
of time.
Looking at the surveyors photos, these showed the flat roof covering in a garden with some 
silver tape on one part of it. Im aware Mr A and Mrs S were concerned by aspects of the 
survey, including that the silver tape on the roof didnt have any context on the repair carried 
out. They provided an explanation of when the roof was fitted. They also referred to online 
images that they said showed minor repairs to the roof near the ridge. So, I think this 
suggests Mr A and Mrs S agreed there were previous repairs to the roof, albeit minor ones.
While their complaint was with this service, Mr A and Mrs S provided further evidence about 
their claim. Our investigator sent this to Lloyds to consider. Lloyds remained of the view that 
the damage wasnt the result of the storm. It noted that the roof felt had lifted in large sheets. 
It said its surveyors images showed that the felt wasnt well bonded to the roof deck and that 
there wasnt evidence of any nail fixings or adhesive to hold it in place. It said there wasnt 
evidence the felt had been stuck down. Im aware Mr A and Mrs S have questioned how the 
roof covering could have remained in place for as long as it did if it wasnt stuck down. 
However, I think Lloyds has clearly explained why it had concerns about how the roof was 
secured and I think it is reasonable for it to rely on these findings.
Ive also considered the internal damage. Mr A and Mrs S have said its clear the dcor 
beneath the roof was in good order with the exception of where water had entered following 
the incident. They said the water marks were clearly new and followed the line of the roof. I 
also looked at a video they provided.
Looking at the surveyors report, this said there was rainwater ingress over a period of time 
and:
There is brown staining to the ceiling and walls to the front elevation. The skirting board is 
also deteriorated. To paintwork to the back wall under the dormer is lifting and affecting the 
plaster and brown staining down the wall.
The photos also showed a range of damage, including brown staining, bubbled paintwork 
and issues near the skirting board. Based on the surveyors findings, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to decide the internal damage was the result of longer-term issues, 
rather than a one-off storm event.
Im also aware Lloyds provided a range of reason for why it declined the claim, which Mr A 
and Mrs S have suggested means Lloyds is trying to find a reason to justify the claim 
decline. I can understand Mr A and Mrs S felt concerned. However, this doesnt persuade 
me that it was incorrect for Lloyds to decline the claim.
So, thinking about all the above, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on 
the basis of poor workmanship and a gradually operating cause. As a result, I dont uphold 
this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman