DRN-2940467
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt retain copies of documents that it 
had been provided with.
What happened
Mrs T is represented in this complaint by her a family member, who holds a Lasting Power of 
Attorney (LPA) over Mrs Ts affairs. For ease of reference I will refer primarily to Mrs T as 
the complainant in this letter.
Mrs T is unhappy that Nationwide didnt retain a copy of the Power of Attorney (POA) 
document supplied to it in 2004, or the LPA which Nationwide took a copy of when it was 
presented to it in branch in 2019. This meant that when Mrs T wanted to instruct Nationwide, 
via her representative, she was unable to do so as Nationwide required confirmation that the 
instruction from the representative was valid but were unable to validate the necessary 
signatures. Mrs T wasnt happy about this and had concerns over the security of the 
information contained within the documents. So, she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mrs Ts complaint. They acknowledged that the POA supplied in 2004 
hadnt been archived in document form, even though the permission given by the document 
had been recorded on Nationwides systems. Nationwide also confirmed that it had no 
record of being supplied the LPA in 2019 and attributed this to human error. Nationwide 
apologised for what had happened but confirmed that the LPA would have been destroyed 
after being in branch for 14 days. Nationwide also made an offer to pay Mrs T £150 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience this matter had caused.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Nationwides 
response to Mrs Ts complaint, including the offer of £150 compensation, did represent a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the complaint, and they therefore didnt feel that they could 
reasonably recommend that Nationwide should take any further action, beyond that to which 
theyd already agreed. 
Mrs T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs T to have learned that Nationwide 
were unable to verify the necessary signatures to confirm the validity of her representatives 
instruction on her accounts, and that this was because Nationwide hadnt retained copies of 
the documents provided to it by Mrs T and her representative in this regard.
Nationwide have acknowledged that the POA that was supplied in 2004 should have been 
archived in document form but wasnt, and while Nationwide dont have any record of the 
LPA being supplied to them in 2019, it accepts that this was most likely down to human error 
and that the document was provided and should have been recorded and retained.
It would be expected by this service in such circumstances that Nationwide would have 
apologised to Mrs T and made an appropriate offer of compensation to account for the 
trouble and upset that this matter might have caused. 
I feel that Nationwide have done that here. In their response to Mrs Ts complaint it 
apologised for what had taken place and it explained what had happened. Furthermore, 
Nationwide offered to make a payment of £150 to Mrs T as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience incurred and also offered to reimburse the cost of Mrs T having to send 
copies of the documents to Nationwide by recorded delivery.
Im aware that Mrs Ts representative feels that Nationwide should pay costs equivalent to 
four hours at her professional rate. However, I dont share this position, and it would be 
highly unusual for this service to consider instructing compensation based on an individuals 
professional rate, and this is because this service doesnt consider one persons free time to 
be any more or less valuable than any other persons free time. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as such by another. But while I appreciate 
that Mrs T may disagree, the offer of £150 plus postage costs that Nationwide have already 
made here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this 
service would expect, given the circumstances here.
Mrs T has expressed concerns at the security of the information that was contained in the 
LPA provided to Nationwide in 2019. Nationwide have explained that if received, its copy of 
this document would have been destroyed after 14 days in line with its document retention 
policy. As such, Im satisfied that its highly unlikely that any information security issues 
persist such that Nationwide need take any further action here in regard to this point.
All of which means that while I concur that Mrs T did incur a degree of inconvenience and 
upset because of what took place here, I feel that Nationwides response to Mrs Ts 
complaint, including the offer of compensation its already made, does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding Mrs 
Ts complaint here or instructing Nationwide to take any further action at this time. Finally, 
Nationwide have confirmed that the offer previously made to Mrs T remains available for her 
to accept.
I note that Mrs Ts representative has questioned the consistency of decisions made by this 
service on other complaints that she has researched and which she feels are similar to this 
complaint. However, I must confirm that this service considers all complaints received on 
their individual merits and that its improbable that any two cases would be exactly alike. I 
can also confirm that Im satisfied that I have assessed this complaint on its individual merits 
and that Im similarly satisfied that the decision that Ive reached here is a fair one for all 
parties involved.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs T and her representative were wanting here, 
but I trust that theyll understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman