DRN-3182010
The complaint
Mr D complains that the loans he had from Loans 2 Go Limited were unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr D had two loans from Loans 2 Go in December 2019 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 3 Dec 2019 £1,000 18m £228.56 15 May 2021 18 Dec 2019
2 24 Dec 2019 £700 18m £159.99 15 Jun 2021 17 Mar 2020
Mr D says Loans 2 Go didnt carry out enough checks when it assessed his loan 
application. He says he had other debts at the time and the repayments were unaffordable 
to him.
Loans 2 Go says it carried out a thorough affordability assessment which included verifying 
Mr Ds declared income and checking his credit file. It says that although its checks 
indicated a lower income than Mr D had declared, and a higher expenditure, it still found 
the repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said that the information 
Loans 2 Go gathered at the time of each loan application indicated the repayments were 
not sustainable for Mr D. He recommended that Loans 2 Go should deduct any payments 
Mr D made from the total money he received and refund any overpayments plus 8% 
interest. He said it should also ensure that any associated negative information is removed 
from Mr Ds credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that its calculations showed Mr D had in 
excess of £300 of disposable income remaining after the loan repayments, so it could not 
agree the loans were unaffordable.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr D and to Loans 2 Go on 27 October 2021. The relevant 
guidelines were outlined in the provisional decision, so I wont repeat them here.
Ive summarised my findings below.
Loan 1
I wasnt satisfied that Loans 2 Gos checks went far enough because:
oThe loan was over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
oLoans 2 Gos analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mr Ds 
declared income and credit expenditure;
oThe monthly mortgage payment shown in Mr Ds credit file was double the 
figure hed declared;
oMr D was already committed to spending almost 40% of his income on credit 
repayments (excluding the mortgage);
oHis credit card was almost at its limit;
oLoans 2 Go says it used a statistical average to determine a reasonable 
figure for Mr Ds other expenditure;
As Mr D was already committed to spending almost 40% of his verified income on 
credit repayments, I thought Loans 2 Go should have seen this as an indication he 
might already be struggling to manage his money;
In addition, I considered it would have been reasonable to check with Mr D about the 
reason for the discrepancy between the two mortgage figures and to fully understand 
his other expenditure;
So I found Loans 2 Gos checks should have included a full review of Mr Ds financial 
circumstances, and I didnt find Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks;
As Mr Ds representative did not provide any further evidence of his circumstances at 
the time, I was unable to establish what proportionate checks were likely to have 
found;
Based on the information it had at the time, I couldnt conclude that Loans 2 Go 
should have found the loan unaffordable and there was little to indicate that Mr D was 
in financial difficulties at the time of the lending.
Given the evidence I had seen so far, I considered Loans 2 Go made a fair lending 
decision for loan 1.
Loan 2
When Mr D repaid loan 1 and applied for loan 2 later the same month, Loans 2 Go 
carried out the same checks again. Given there were only three weeks between the 
two loans, the information Loans 2 Go received was largely unchanged;
For the same reasons as before, I found Loans 2 Go should have carried out further 
checks, but I still didnt have any further evidence of Mr Ds circumstances at the 
time.
So again, taking into account the evidence I had seen so far, I could not conclude 
Loans 2 Go made an unfair lending decision for loan 2.
My provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint about either of the loans.
Neither Mr D, nor Loans 2 Go, responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman