DRN-4009346
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr L was supplied with car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle. 
Mr L experienced issues with a chattering noise from the engine. He took the car to a local 
garage who said there was a fault with the timing chain.
Mr L complained to Oodle in October 2022. Oodle arranged an independent inspection of 
the car. The inspection was carried out on 13 November 2022 and found a fault with the 
timing chain. The report concluded that the timing chain had minimal life expectancy at the 
point of supply and that the business was responsible for repair costs on the grounds of 
durability.
Oodle advised Mr L of the outcome of the inspection and said it was awaiting a response 
from the broker and the dealership. The broker asked for a repair estimate for the timing 
chain, so Oodle asked Mr L to obtain an estimate.
Mr L said he wasnt able to drive the car to a garage to obtain an estimate because of the 
issues with the timing chain.
Mr L didnt hear anything further, so he referred his complaint to this service. At that stage, 
he hadnt received a final response from Oodle.
Oodle issue a final response on 19 January 2023. It said it was upholding the complaint and 
that it would cover the costs of repairs and any recovery costs. It also offered compensation 
of £100.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response. He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he thought the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality and that whilst repair was initially a reasonable remedy, the length of time which had 
passed with Mr L not being able to drive the car and the further delays and inconvenience 
which would be caused by repairs now meant that it was fair to allow Mr L to reject the car.
Oodle didnt agree. It said that Mr L had made it clear that he wanted to reject the car when 
he first raised his complaint and hadnt shown any willingness to allow repairs to be carried 
out. Oodle said that under the relevant legislation it should be given the opportunity to repair 
the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle has acknowledged that the car has a fault for which it is responsible. So I wont 
comment further on the quality of the car. Instead, Ill focus on whats a fair and reasonable 
resolution to Mr Ls complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. Under this legislation, where a 
car has a fault which makes it of unsatisfactory quality, the business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault and bring the car up to a satisfactory standard.
Oodle says it has offered to repair the car and that it should be allowed the opportunity to do 
so.
Ive reviewed all the information. The inspection report was clear in its conclusion that the 
business was responsible for repairs. I can see that Oodle communicated with the broker, 
who in turn communicated with the dealership. Following this, Mr L was requested by Oodle 
to take the car to a garage and obtain a quote for repairs.
I dont think Oodle acted fairly and reasonably in requesting Mr L to obtain a repair quote. It 
knew that the car wasnt driveable, and that Mr L would find it difficult to obtain a quote for 
repirs without having the car recovered to a garage. I dont think Oodle acted fairly here. It 
shouldve arranged for the car to be recovered and taken to a garage for a quote.
There has been considerable delay in this case because Mr L was waiting to hear back after 
making it clear that he wasnt able to get the car to a garage. The dealer has said it tried to 
contact Mr L, but I havent seen evidence of this. I can see that Oodle contacted Mr L on 17 
January 2023 to chase up the repair quote. It says it advised Mr L that it would reimburse 
him for the costs of recovering the car to a garage.  I dont think it was fair for Oodle to 
expect Mr L to pay up front to recover the car to a garage when the repirs were the 
responsibility of Oodle.
Several months have passed since the car was found to be of unsatisfactory quality. And no 
repair quotes have been obtained.
Whilst I acknowledge that the relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to 
repair the fault, I think Oodle has had reasonable opportunity to arrange recovery of the car 
and obtain a repair quote and arrange for repairs to be carried out. I havent seen anything to 
support Oodles assertion that Mr L was unwilling to allow repairs to be carried out.
Given the time that has passed since the car was found to be of unsatisfactory quality, and 
because I think Oodle has already had a reasonable opportunity to arrange repairs, I think 
the fairest way to resolve this complaint is to allow Mr L to reject the car.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think Mr L should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr L hasnt been able to use the car since 22 October 2022 because of the fault with the 
timing chain. I think it was reasonable for Mr L to stop using the car. because it could have 
broken down at any moment and further damage could have been caused by driving it. So, I 
dont think its fair to expect Mr L to pay for a car he was unable to use. All rentals made 
since 22 October 2022 should be refunded.
I can see that Oodle paid Mr L £175 on 29 November 2022 to cover the cost of a hire car for 
one week. Mr L hasnt been kept mobile beyond this. The sum of £175 may be retained by Oodle from the rentals refund.
Its clear that Mr L has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied 
with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think its fair to ask Oodle to pay 
compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr L to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr L
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £1500
Refund all rentals paid since 22 October 2022 to the date of settlement (less £175)
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ls credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman