DRN-1745270
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about the service they received from Union Reiseversicherung 
AG (URV) when making a claim on their travel insurance policy  including delays 
repatriating Mrs G home. 
Any reference to URV includes its claims handlers and agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of a travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, which 
covered them for the period of their trip abroad in January 2019. Towards the start of their 
holiday, on 7 January 2019, Mrs G fell and broke her ankle in multiple places. 
She was immediately taken to hospital. URV was told what had happened and the hospital 
Mrs G had been admitted to. It agreed to cover treatment. 
The clinical director at the hospital advised that Mrs G should be immediately repatriated 
back to the UK and issued a fit to fly certificate for her to be repatriated by air ambulance or 
by commercial flight, but shed need to have a row of three seats to herself. Mrs G was 
repatriated home on 11 January 2019 on a commercial flight with Mr G. 
Mr G and Mrs G are very unhappy with the time taken to repatriate them home; they say had 
Mrs G been repatriated sooner, she wouldve been able to have had the treatment she 
needed. The delay meant her treatment options were limited. Mrs G is now unable to flex her 
ankle and is unlikely to ever be able to walk properly again.
Mr and Mrs G are also unhappy with URVs:
lack of communication whilst they were abroad;
failure to proactively assist them;
failure to pay their medical costs in a timely manner after the hospital declined to 
accept a guarantee of payment from it; and
decision not to pay a disability payment under the policy in the sum of £10,000.
 
They also said URV had miscalculated the curtailment payment they were entitled to as a 
result of their holiday being effectively cut short. However, this was sorted out by URV after 
Mr and Mrs G had complained to it and doesnt form part of their complaint to our Service. 
URV also accepted that the service it had provided to Mr and Mrs G whilst aboard wasnt 
always up the required standard and offered them £250 in compensation.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt think URV had 
unreasonably declined the claim for a total disablement payment under the policy. However, 
he did conclude URV had failed to proactively manage Mr and Mrs Gs claim whilst abroad, 
and had unreasonably delayed repatriating them home. Having considered the impact this 
had on Mr and Mrs G, together with the medical evidence, he recommended URV increase its compensation offer from £250 to £3,5000 in recognition of the trouble and upset it had 
caused Mr and Mrs G.
URV partially accepted our investigators opinion but didnt agree with his recommendation 
to pay Mr and Mrs G £3,500. However, it did agree to increase its offer to pay them £2,000 
in compensation. It also raised further points which our investigator considered but, 
ultimately, didnt affect his opinion. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept URVs revised offer.
This complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold it.
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
delay in repatriating Mr and Mrs G back to the UK 
URV was notified of Mrs Gs injury on 8 January 2019 and the next day it was notified that 
Mrs G required an emergency operation, which the hospital didnt have the facilities to carry 
out. By that stage it had accepted the claim. The system notes reflect that on that same day 
 9 January 2019  it asked its repatriation team to look into flying Mr and Mrs G back to the 
UK.
It looks like the hospitals medical director initially advised that an air ambulance would be 
needed. However, theres also a call note reflecting a conversation between URVs 
representative and the medical director on 8 January 2019, where the medical director says 
a commercial flight with three seats together would be suitable. So, I dont think URVs initial 
decision not to arrange an air ambulance to bring Mrs G back to the UK was unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs G were repatriated on 11 January2019 and Mrs G was admitted to a hospital 
close to where she lived the day after. However, Ive seen nothing to show that URV 
attempted to find a commercial flight back to the UK for Mr and Mrs G earlier than this or that 
this was the earliest flight available which met Mrs Gs medical requirements. 
There is a system note from 8 January 2019 indicating that URV had been told that the first 
flight home to the UK airport Mr and Mrs G had departed from (and had been due to fly back 
to) was 13 January 2019 but Ive seen no supporting documentary evidence of this either. 
So, I dont know whether Mrs G couldve been repatriated sooner if further enquiries had 
been made by URV.
In any event, even if an earlier flight hadnt been available, Ive seen nothing in the system 
notes to suggest that attempts were made by URV to transport Mrs G to another hospital on 
a nearby island who had the facilities to perform the surgery needed. 
Of course, I cant know for sure whether, had those enquiries been made, other hospitals 
wouldve been able to carry out the necessary surgery as a matter of priority. But Im 
satisfied URV shouldve explored this. Particularly given Mrs Gs age, that it had been told 
her condition was deteriorating and her ankle was showing signs of having been infected - 
and that she wasnt getting the care she required at the hospital she was in.In response to our investigators view, URV accept this. It says whilst its the hospitals duty 
to move a patient whom they cant treat, we accept that once we became aware that the 
hospital was failing in their duty of care, we should have looked into seeing if we could 
arrange a transfer
URV isnt responsible for the standard of care given to Mrs G by the hospital but it was 
aware of the precarious situation she found herself in and I dont think it did enough to 
proactively assist her get the treatment she needed either by repatriating back to the UK 
sooner, or locating another hospital who had the facilities to provide the treatment she 
needed. On balance, if it had done so, I think its likely that she wouldve received the urgent 
treatment she was advised she needed sooner than she did, given her condition.
The medical evidence suggests that because of the condition of Mrs Gs ankle at the time 
she was admitted to the UK hospital, the treatment options were limited, meaning that the 
medical team couldnt carry out traditional surgery for this type of injury. 
In support, I refer to a letter dated December 2019 provided by the consultant trauma and 
orthopaedic surgeon who treated Mrs G on her return to the UK. Im not a medical expert. 
But in the absence of any other medical opinion on this issue, and based on his 
qualifications and length of experience, Ive placed significant weight on he said:
In my opinion, and on the balance of probabilities, if the ankle had been reduced ahead of 
this time then the soft tissues would not have been so severely injured and traditional fixation 
may have been achieved this would have left a near normal ankle joint that should recover 
most movement over time and a good chance of recovery to a normal pre-injury state over 
the course of 2 years.
There is always the possibility that even with early reduction of the ankle injury that this 
soft tissue injury could have occurred but my opinion is that on the balance of probabilities it 
would have been lessened if she had not arrived at (the UK hospital) with such a poor 
position of the ankle joint.
He concludes: 
In my opinion  the delay in treatment has affected the outcome from her injury. This delay 
could be due to the management in the initial admitting hospital but if they were unable to 
treat this condition then the delay to repatriate. 
So, Im satisfied Mrs Gs treatment was affected by the delay to either move her to a hospital 
that could have carried out the treatment whilst abroad or the delay repatriating her to the 
UK.
Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that a delay of one or two days is likely to have 
made a difference to Mrs G being able to have had the traditional treatment for her type of 
injury, which is unlikely to have had such long-lasting, and permanent, consequences for 
her.
Mrs G says she now walks with an unattractive and clumsy gait" and that she gets 
frustrated by not being able to do things she was able to do previously. This is somewhat 
supported by the consultant who explains that as a result of the surgery Mrs G had, she 
cant now walk properly, and movement wont ever return in a particular joint of the ankle. 
And that although there will be mobility in the adjacent joints, under the ankle, and in the mid 
part of the foot, they may become arthritic over time and require further treatment.
I also accept that: it would be upsetting for Mrs G to know that its likely that had she received the 
treatment she needed sooner, her injury wouldve had a far less invasive impact on 
her future heath and ability to walk without difficulty; and
shes now unable to partake in certain hobbies she enjoyed previously due to the 
surgery on her ankle and that she wont be able to wear high-heeled shoes again.
 
other issues
URV accepts it didnt provide meaningful updates to Mr and Mrs G whilst Mrs G was in 
hospital and its apologised for the lack of support they were given throughout. 
Although Mr G says Mrs G wasnt fully aware of what was going on due to the medication 
shed been receiving, Im satisfied that this unnecessarily exacerbated an already distressing 
situation for them  particularly Mr G who I can see from emails he was sending to URV and 
his Son at the time, was very frustrated and frantic with worry.
This worry and distress was exacerbated further by the hospital stating it wouldnt accept a 
guarantee of payment from URV given its stance that it owed them money as a result of 
unpaid treatment fees for other policyholders. Although URV hasnt been able to confirm 
whether there were any outstanding fees at the time, Mr G has provided us with copies of 
correspondence from the hospital to URV from late November 2018  so around six weeks 
before Mrs G was admitted to the hospital - setting out the money it claimed URV owed it 
together with invoices. 
So, I think its more likely than not that was the reason why the hospital didnt accept URVs 
guarantee of payment in this case  and although I make no finding on the merits of those 
outstanding fees  the situation did put Mr and Mrs G in a precarious position and URV 
agreed to send an agent to assist Mr and Mrs G in person and sort out payment. URV 
accepts that Mr and Mrs G received several reassurances that this would happen but no 
action was actually taken until their Son intervened, and the medical bills were settled 
around an hour before discharge. I accept this caused Mr and Mrs G additional, and 
unnecessary, distress and inconvenience  particularly given that the hospital was telling 
them that unless payment was made, they wouldnt discharge Mrs G and meaning they 
could miss their flight home.
Disability benefit 
Subject to certain conditions, the policy can pay out £10,000 in disability benefit for total 
loss by physical severance or total and permanent loss of use of one or both hands or feet 
or permanent and total disablement from engaging in paid employment of any and every 
kind all occurring within 12 months of the event happening where you are not in paid 
employment this shall be defined as all your usual activities, pastimes and pursuits of any 
and every kind.
The medical evidence supports that Mrs G is unlikely to be able to walk 'normally' ever 
again. However, I havent seen anything which suggests that she's lost all use of that foot. 
So although the terms 'total' and 'permanent' arent defined in the policy, as she hasnt lost 
total use of her foot, and is able to carry out some of her usual activities, pastimes and 
pursuits (although she says not all of them), I dont think URV has unfairly declined the claim 
for disability benefit under the policy.Putting things right
URV has recently increased the amount of compensation its offered to pay Mr and Mrs G 
from £250 to £2,000. But I dont think £2,000 fairly reflects the substantial trouble and upset 
theyve experienced as a result of the things URV did wrong here. 
Im persuaded £3,500 is a fairer amount to reflect the substantial distress and inconvenience 
it caused them both, and the pain and suffering experienced by Mrs G. URV can deduct from 
this amount the £250 its initially offered Mr and Mrs G, if its already paid this to them.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman