DRN-3430235
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about two conditional sales agreements which were brokered by Itc 
Compliance Limited (Itc). 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to acquire a car. I will refer 
to this car as Car1.  
Later, on 13 October 2021, Mr W used Car1 as a part-exchange to acquire another car. I will 
refer to the second car as Car2. Mr W acquired Car2 by entering into a conditional sales 
agreement which was brokered by Itc. Car2 had a cash price of around £41,610. The total 
amount payable was approximately £44,711. Mr W made an advance payment of around 
£26,550  this included the value given for part-exchanging Car1 and a deposit of £1,000. 
There were 60 monthly payments, each around £303. 
Mr W was unhappy with Car2 because it didnt have a 360 degree camera, so shortly after, 
on 5 November 2021, he went back to the same dealership and used Car2 as part-exchange 
to acquire a third car; which I will refer to as Car3. Mr W acquired Car3 by entering into a 
conditional sales agreement which was brokered by Itc. Car3 had a cash price of around 
£42,000. The total amount payable was approximately £45,358. Mr W made an advance 
payment of around £25,690. There were 60 monthly payments, each around £328.   
Mr W is unhappy because when he was in the process of acquiring Car2 he said that the 
dealership told him that the outstanding amount of money owing on Car1s finance 
agreement would be settled. So, he doesnt think he should be responsible for paying the 
reminder, or a part of the remainder, of that fixed sum loan. Mr W also questioned why there 
is a £1,450 discrepancy between the part exchange of Car2 against Car3.  
In February 2022, Itc have written to Mr W. In this correspondence they said that they 
understand that Mr W believed that the settlement amount for the money owing on Car1s 
finance agreement would be paid by the dealership, but they said that this doesnt appear so 
from any of the transactions between Mr W and the dealership. They also said that personal 
loans are not reflected on HPI checks and that personal loan repayments, like the one 
outstanding on Car1, are the sole responsibility of the borrower; in this case Mr W himself.  
In addition, Itc said that the £1,450 discrepancy/loss between the part-exchange of Car2 
against Car3 is depreciation. They said that Car3 was first advertised at a sale price of 
£49,000, but that this was further reduced to £42,000 as a goodwill gesture to relieve Mr W 
from the depreciation of Car2 and to help him with the acquisition of Car3, so that this car fell 
within his budget. So, they emphasized that Car3 was a much higher specification to Car2 
and that the dealership reduced the price of Car3 by £7,000 to help compensate for the loss 
incurred due to Car2 and to accommodate Mr Ws budget. Itc said all this was agreed at the 
time and that Mr W signed the relevant documentation. They also explained to Mr W that he 
could withdraw from the finance agreement for Car2 within 14 days if it were unsuitable for 
him, but not from the car purchase itself.
Mr W was unhappy with Itcs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said that Mr W received full 
equity for Car1 when he part-exchanged it, and she was satisfied that the dealership didnt 
know there was any remaining money owing on Car1 at the time of the transaction.  
Mr W disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Where evidence is unclear or in 
dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which is to say, what I consider 
most likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Both Car2 and Car3 were acquired by Mr W under conditional sale agreements. These are 
all regulated consumer credit agreements. Our service can look at these sorts of 
agreements.
Money discrepancy between the part exchange of Car2 against Car3
Mr W questioned why there is an approximate £1,450 discrepancy between the part 
exchange of Car2 against Car3 because he says that he notified the dealership within 14 
days that he needed a car with a 360 degree camera. He believes that a full price shouldve 
been refunded for Car2 when he acquired Car3. 
Itc said that the £1,450 discrepancy between the part-exchange of Car2 against Car3 is due 
to the depreciation of Car2. They also said that Mr W could withdraw from the finance 
agreement for Car2 within 14 days if it were unsuitable for him, but not from the car 
purchase itself.
However, I cant look at this aspect of the complaint against Itc. Our jurisdiction derives from 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and rules made under that act by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Those rules can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section 
of the FCAs handbook of rules and guidance. Our service can consider a complaint if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one of the listed activities in DISP 2.3.1. 
One type of such activities would be regulated activities, or ancillary activities carried on by 
the firm in connection with them. An example of regulated activities would be credit 
broking. 
Itc is regulated by the FCA to provide credit broking, but Mr W is not complaining about this. 
The act of selling a car doesnt fall under the list of regulated activities. It is also not a 
regulated activity or an ancillary activity carried on by the firm in connection with them. So, 
Im not able to consider any of Mr Ws concerns about the sale of the car itself against Itc. This includes Mr Ws concerns about the amount of money he thinks he shouldve been 
given for Car2 when he part-exchanged it for Car3. Also, this issue is being dealt with 
separately under a different complaint at our service.
Outstanding money owing on Car1s fixed sum loan agreement.
Mr W is unhappy because when he was in the process of acquiring Car2 he said that the 
dealership told him that the outstanding amount of money owing on Car1s finance 
agreement would be settled by them. So, he doesnt think he should be responsible for 
paying the reminder, or a part of the remainder, of that fixed sum loan. The dealership, on 
the other hand, have told our service that at the time when Mr W was part-exchanging Car1 
for Car2, they were not aware that there was outstanding finance on Car1. So, Ive taken into 
consideration what both sides have told us, and I also considered the paperwork from 
around the time. 
When Mr W part-exchanged Car1 for Car2, the dealership told our service that they carried 
out an HPI check which indicated that there was no finance registered against the car. They 
have provided us a copy of this check which was carried out on 2 October 2021, and it 
shows there was no finance registered against Car1. I think this is reasonable, as Car1 was 
purchased by Mr W using a fixed sum loan, and these types of agreements are usually not 
registered against a car, so they would not show up on the HPI register.  
Mr W has also provided us a copy of an HPI check carried out on Car1, but this check was 
carried out at a later date, on 30 November 2021. This check shows that there is a finance 
registered against the car, it comes up as Unit Stocking. This is a form of credit used by 
dealerships to allow them to get financing on cars in their stock. This has also been 
confirmed to our service by the dealership. So, Im persuaded that the copy of the HPI check 
that Mr W provided was showing a finance outstanding, but this wasnt Mr Ws fixed sum 
loan that was registered on there.   
Ive also looked at a document titled Demands and Needs for Mr W completed at the time 
he acquired Car2. On this document there is a question: Will you be Part Exchanging 
Another Vehicle?, and this question is ticked as Yes. The next question asks: Is there any 
finance outstanding on the vehicle you are Part Exchanging?, and this question is ticked as 
No. I see this document was electronically signed by Mr W.
So, taking all of the circumstances into consideration, I havent seen enough evidence to be 
able to say that most likely the dealership were aware of the money outstanding on Mr Ws 
fixed sum loan agreement and that they agreed to pay it off.
But even if there was enough evidence, which Im not saying there is, to show that most 
likely the dealership did tell Mr W that they would pay off the reminder of his fixed sum loan 
agreement, I dont see how it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Itc to pay this. 
The reason I say that is because Mr W did get £25,550 for part-exchanging Car1, so he 
already received full equity for it.
Itc have also said that the dealership in November 2021 did offer, without prejudice, two 
options to Mr W:
Option 1
The dealership offered to make a £2,500 contribution towards Mr Ws settlement and
refinance of Car3, £350 worth of accessories, and additional 2-year service for the car. 
Option 2The dealership offered to unwind the full transaction at nil cost to Mr W, so that he could be 
returned to the same financial position before he acquired Car2 and return Car1 to him. 
The dealership had given a deadline for both above offers, and as Mr W didnt accept any of 
these offers by the stipulated deadlines, both offers have lapsed. These offers were made on 
without prejudice basis which, in summary, meant that they were made off the record, hence 
having no bearing on a persons strict legal rights. So, in another way they are inadmissible 
in court and cannot be made the subject of a disclosure order in any proceedings (subject to 
certain exceptions). As these offers were made without an admission of wrongdoing on the 
dealerships part, I do not think it would be fair or reasonable, taking the circumstance of this 
complaint into consideration, for me to comment on these offers. Also, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to infer any wrongdoing by the dealership regarding whether 
they told Mr W or not that the outstanding amount of money owing on Car1s finance 
agreement would be settled by them from these without prejudice offers.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman