DRN-4325210
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy after their wall collapsed following a storm. 
The policy is in both Mr and Mrs Ds name but Mr D has brought the complaint and so for 
ease I will refer to Mr D throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a home insurance policy with Lloyds. It has been in force for over ten 
years. 
During the afternoon of 12 April 2023 during storm Noa a large section of Mr Ds boundary 
wall was blown down by a particularly violent gust. Mr D says the damaged section was in a 
more exposed position between the house and the double garage.
Mr D contacted Lloyds and says there was a reluctance to treat the claim as storm damage 
since the minimum speed requirement hadnt been met for the location of Mr Ds property. 
Mr D says Lloyds recognised that wind speeds could be up to 53mph but didnt accept the 
possibility that they could be higher than 55mph. Mr D says the only way he is able to prove 
the claim is with the pictures of the fallen wall and testimony of his neighbour. 
Mr D says a surveyor came to assess the damage two days later. Following the inspection 
the surveyor said the claim would be rejected and this was confirmed by Lloyds on 19 April 
2023.
The surveyor said the cause of damage was deteriorated mortar which is a sign of wear and 
tear. Since wear and tear is excluded under the policy the claim was declined. 
Mr D says Lloyds wont pay for damage that happens due to something getting older. But, he 
says, all damage happens as something gets older. He says Lloyds have interpreted the 
terms unfairly. Mr D says Lloyds told him the wind did not exceed a speed of around 40-
45mph and the surveyor also agreed with this. 
Mr D says after Lloyds declined his claim he arranged for his own contractor to rebuild the 
wall. The cost of the rectifying work cost £15,000 plus VAT. Mr D wasnt happy with the 
service he received from Lloyds so he complained. 
Lloyds said its building contractor assessed the damage to the wall and their report 
considered all the evidence available. It said the contractor said the damage to the wall was 
due to deteriorated mortar and not storm damage. Lloyds also said wind speeds in the area 
at the time of damage were around 45mph  47mph and this is below the criteria set out in 
the policy of 55mph. Lloyds explained the closest weather station to Mr Ds home is 12 miles 
away and that had readings of 53mph on 12 April and high 40s in the two days leading up to 
the date of loss. As a result Lloyds wouldnt consider the claim as storm damage. 
Mr D didnt agree and so referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for him. She said she thought the claim had been declined correctly and within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Our investigator said the definition of storm under the 
policy wasnt met, and there were signs of wear and tear which the contractor said was the 
likely cause of the damage. 
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether Lloyds have decided the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
I am sorry Mr D finds himself in the situation, with a bill for repairs to the roof, I understand 
that it must be very worrying for him. 
However, having considered the evidence carefully I havent upheld Mr Ds complaint, and 
Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. In order for there to 
be a valid claim under a buildings insurance policy, the damage must have occurred as a 
result of an insured peril. These perils, or events, are specified in every policy and include 
reasons such as theft, fire, and storm damage. If the damage being claimed for cant be said 
to be as a result of one of these perils, then there can be no valid claim from the start. 
Having reviewed the information provided Im satisfied there were heavy winds in the 
location of Mr Ds house in April 2023. But to uphold Mr Ds complaint Id need to be 
persuaded the winds were 55mph for the purposes of the claim, and that it was the main 
cause of the damage to Mr Ds wall. And having reviewed everything I dont think the 
conditions at the time meet the definition. 
Lloyds say the damage to Mr Ds wall wasnt caused by a storm. To consider a claim under 
the storm section of the policy I would expect to see wind speeds of 55mph or above. The 
policy says the following;
When we say storm we mean strong winds over 55mph, and/or hail or snow thats extreme 
enough to damage hard surfaces or break glass. Rain alone is not a storm. 
Lloyds say the damage to the wall wasnt consistent with storm damage. Lloyds provided the 
report from the surveyor who inspected Mr Ds wall. The surveyor concluded that the mortar 
had deteriorated and this caused the damage. The report specifically referred to the factors 
Lloyds gave as its reasons for declining the claim. It referred to a section of the policy called 
exclusions which says, We wont pay claims for damage that happen as something gets 
older. This is known as wear and tear.
The report says, when the surveyor inspected the garden/boundary wall he observed that 
the damage was caused by deteriorated mortar works. There are also photographs in the 
report of the wall which evidence the deteriorated mortar. And Im persuaded by what it 
shows. I also havent seen any firm evidence that the experts report is incorrect. 
Mr D says the major parts of the wall remained standing and the claim was for the part of the 
wall that was blown down. And since the wall fell down due to the storm it should be covered. He says Lloyds should cover the cost of the work and reduce the settlement to take 
into account wear and tear as per the terms of the policy. But for the claim to be accepted 
there needs to be an insured peril that was the major factor for the wall falling down. But the 
storm conditions werent met, they dont show wind speeds of 55mph and above. So even if 
the wall fell when there was a gust of wind, high winds (of less than 55mph) arent covered 
by the policy. Only storm damage is; and theres no evidence of a storm. 
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr D who has had to pay a significant amount of 
money to have the wall repaired. But having considered everything, I dont think Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably rejected Mr Ds claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman