DRN-1971336
 
The complaint
Ms A complains about the decision by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to decline a claim 
and void (cancel from the start) her travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Ms A took out an annual policy with IPA via a price comparison website. 
The following month, Ms A was due to go on a trip, but fell ill shortly before she was due to 
leave and so cancelled it. She made a cancellation claim to IPA. 
IPA turned down the claim because it said Ms A hadnt declared relevant information about 
her health when taking out the policy. It said that if she had done so, it wouldnt have offered 
her this policy. It therefore voided the policy from the start, but didnt return the premiums 
paid. Unhappy with this, Ms A brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He thought that when taking 
out the policy, Ms A had failed to declare that shed been prescribed medication and had 
undergone investigations. He therefore thought it was reasonable for IPA to turn down Ms 
As claim and void the policy. However, he thought IPA should have returned the premiums 
paid to Ms A. 
Ms A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, I need to consider the case in accordance with the 
principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA), which concerns misrepresentation.
When taking out the policy, Ms A was asked:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition?
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip it is important you tell us about your 
medical history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your policy. 
Examples include diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and respiratory conditions 
(including asthma). You do not need to declare pregnancy
as a medical condition.
Ms A answered no to this question. 
Ms A says this question didnt make it clear to her what was meant by a pre-existing medical 
condition and the examples given were of chronic medical conditions. I agree with her. I can 
therefore understand why she answered no.
However, before the sale could go ahead, Ms A was directed to read some important 
information. This said:
Please note that the policy you have selected is not designed to cover claims arising from 
pre-existing medical conditions. If you can answer no to the following questions, please 
select I Agree to proceed
1. Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any 
medical condition that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment including 
surgery, tests or investigations?
2. 
Im satisfied this was a clear question. Ms A chose to proceed with the policy, therefore her 
answer to the above was no.
Ive looked at Ms As medical history in order to decide whether she took reasonable care in 
answering this question, and I dont think she did. Ill explain why.
The relevant period is the five years before Ms A took out the policy so May 2014 to May 
2019. 
Ms As GP has explained that in this period she had a lump in her neck and had an 
ultrasound scan which was normal, a thyroid function test, a cyst in the neck (thyroglossal 
cyst) which a scan showed was benign, and an upper respiratory tract infection which was 
treated with antibiotics.
Ms A explains the lump in her neck appears twice in the report her GP completed because 
she had the ultrasound scan carried out privately. She says her GP recorded this the time 
she first went to him, then again when the results of the ultrasound were given to him. 
Ive noted Ms As explanation regarding the lump in her neck. However, regardless of this, I 
dont think she should have proceeded with the policy based on her medical history. The 
remaining option available was for the price comparison site to show Ms A policies for 
people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ive carried out a dummy quote and I see that if Ms A had selected this option, she would 
have been asked further questions about her health. After answering these, the price 
comparison site would have directed her to a panel of insurers who were prepared to offer 
cover for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Whilst IPA may have been one of those insurers - as the investigator has pointed out, we 
cant be sure that Ms A wouldve taken out an alternative policy with IPA. Thats because 
there likely would have been a range of other policies available, with different prices and 
benefits. 
Consequently, whilst I appreciate Ms As claim wasnt linked to her medical history, IPA 
wouldnt have offered her this policy for this price if shed told it about her pre-existing 
medical conditions. It was therefore entitled to decline her claim.
Under CIDRA, there are different remedies depending on the type of misrepresentation. If it 
was careless, the insurer can avoid the policy and refund the premiums. If it was deliberate 
or reckless, the insurer can avoid the policy and retain the premiums.In Ms As case, IPA has voided the policy but not returned the premiums. However, it hasnt 
shown that Ms As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. I therefore agree with our 
investigator that the misrepresentation was careless, and so IPA should return the premiums 
paid.   
Ms A wants to know if questions asked at the point of sale take precedence over the 
information about pre-existing conditions in the policy document. I can confirm that when we 
look at the sale of a policy in accordance with the principles set out under CIDRA, we only 
look at the questions that were asked when the policy was taken out. Any exclusion or 
information within the policy itself relating to pre-existing medical conditions is not relevant. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to return the premium paid. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date the premium was paid to the date  of settlement. 
If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should also give Ms A a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman