DRN-2932404
The complaint
X complains about the quality of a car X financed through a finance agreement with N.I.I.B. 
Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Northridge, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
X acquired their car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to X. The car here was about six 
years old and had already completed about 55,267 miles. So I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to have some wear and tear but I dont think the issues X complains of could 
fairly be considered to be related to wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if there is something wrong with the car the consumer 
can reject it within the first 30 days without giving the business an opportunity to carry out a 
repair.
Im persuaded that X did ask to reject the car and Im persuaded there was something wrong 
with it.
X complained that the Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) and TPS (Tyre Pressure Sensor) 
warning lights were illuminated and that there was a knocking from the exhaust, boost bolts 
were missing and there was a problem with tracking on the car. 
The independent inspector confirmed those issues were still present when he completed his 
report in May 2021. He said that it would have been obvious that the car had been heavily 
modified when it was supplied to X and added that the suspension and tracking needed 
adjustment; that there was a fault with the ABS and TPS that was probably related to a faulty 
ABS sensor and that there was a knocking from the exhaust.
They were all problems that were reported by X within the first 30 days. So I think Northridge 
should have approved rejection of the vehicle.
Northridge have said that the problems would have been obvious to X and that in those 
circumstances the relevant legislation wouldnt hold them accountable. I disagree. Whilst I 
accept that X would have been aware of the modifications to the car I dont accept that X 
was aware of problems with the car. Its those problems that make the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
Putting things right
Northridge should allow X to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit that was paid and they should add interest to that deposit 
as X has been deprived of the money.
Northridge should return the finance instalments that X has paid but relevant legislation 
allows them to retain some of that refund in respect of the usage X has had from the car. Ive 
considered what the investigator had to say about that usage and I think she made a 
sensible suggestion that as X had completed about two months worth of mileage in the car   
My final decision
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman