DRN-2914492
The complaint
Mr S complains that Brooks Macdonald Asset Management Limited (Brooks) didnt explain 
that the sale of his investments in his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) would not be 
immediate due to forward pricing and he felt he lost out.
What happened
Mr S said he lost out by about £9,000 due to the delay between his instruction to sell 
investments and the date they were sold. He felt Brooks should have explained that some of 
the sales were subject to forward pricing and might not be sold on the day he gave 
instructions. He said he corresponded with Brooks and was clear he intended the trades to 
be done on Friday 20 March. He had asked them for specific confirmation on that day that all 
trades were placed on 20th March. Brooks confirmed this and said, weve caught a good 
bounce with the UK mid-market up 7%. He wanted Brooks to make good the price 
difference, to put him in the position he wouldve been had they all sold on the day he gave 
the instruction to sell and was confirmed in writing by Brooks. He said if he had known that 
most trades would not go through until the following week, he would not have chosen to give 
the instruction and leave it open over a weekend when the market was volatile. Further when 
he made contact on Monday 23 March, Brooks still didnt disclose the status of the 
transactions. It replied at 9.59am on Monday 23 to say it was expecting them to show up 
tomorrow or the day after no hint that the value would not be at Friday 20 March.
Brooks said Mr S gave instructions to liquidate his portfolio at 11.31 on 20 March 2020. At 
12.40 it confirmed all the trades had been placed and all were placed correctly. Some were 
subject to forward pricing so the price would be that at the next available valuation point, It 
followed the correct process and didnt uphold the complaint.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Brooks had sold the investments in 
accordance with the forward pricing terms and it wasnt their responsibility to explain to Mr S 
how his SIPP worked. Mr Ss fund was managed by Brooks on a discretionary basis, so it 
was not necessary to have been provided with details of how trades work by Brooks. 
Forward pricing was a common method used across the industry. He had not seen any 
evidence there had been a delay by Brooks in acting on the instructions. Brooks were plan 
manager not adviser, so it wasnt their role to advise. Even if Mr S had been aware of 
forward pricing it would not have affected the value of the sale as he would not have been 
able to cancel the transactions once placed.
Some of Mr Ss funds were sold on the same day and some later. This was because each 
investment had different terms depending on whether they were equities or open 
ended/collective investment/funds. The latter tended to be forward priced so that the price 
isnt fixed until the following day or sometimes two days later. There is no way to avoid this 
and this is the way these types of investments work. Funds can have different cut off times 
for dealing. He didnt think it was the role of Brooks to explain forward pricing. He didnt think 
Brooks had made a mistake, it acted quickly on Mr Ss instructions.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that Brooks had prior knowledge he was intending to sell but 
didnt warn him about the forward pricing and different cut off times. All it did was confirm the 
instruction needed to be in writing. He said his correspondence was clear that he wanted to 
lock the values on the Friday, their reply that we caught a good bounce in the market would 
more than imply it was being closed out as at Friday. Also why did some go through on the 
Friday and some not. Brooks knew on Thursday he wanted to liquidate but no mention was 
made of cut off times. If he had known of forward pricing, he would not have wanted to leave 
the trades over a weekend or at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered whether Brooks has done anything wrong in not warning Mr S about the 
time required to realise his investment portfolio. I have seen copy correspondence between 
Mr S, his financial adviser and Brooks in the days leading up to 20 March. 
On 15 March he sends an email to his financial adviser (FA) discussing his investment 
portfolio and reflecting on the position up to close of business on Friday 13 March. 
On 18 March Mr Ss FA writes to him with comments on falls in the market and agrees that it 
makes sense to keep one investment and revert to cash for the other funds. He suggests 
they liaise on Friday and the FA can get Brooks to act without delay once Mr S has given 
them an instruction.
On 19 March at 15.34pm Mr S emails his FA and says, please go ahead and close the 
Brooks portfolio moving into cash. 
On 19 March at 16.38pm, Mr S was emailed by his FA to say that Brooks need an email 
instruction directly from him and the appropriate email address is supplied.
I have seen the email instruction that Mr S issued at 11.31 on 20 March. It is addressed to 
his financial adviser (FA) and his contact at Brooks. It confirms he wanted to liquidate the 
entire portfolio and says trust this can be undertaken with immediate effect today
Mr S says his correspondence was clear that he wanted to close out his position on that 
Friday. But I dont agree. Brooks was not privy to the discussion with his FA and the 
instruction it receives is to liquidate with immediate effect. I dont think that means the 
realisation will or can be completed on that day but does mean that the initial actions to start 
the realisation will be taken. There is no suggestion that Brooks didnt take immediate action 
just that that action couldnt be executed and completed at prices on that day. But that was 
never something Brooks could have done as the timing of the price for each investment 
depended on terms determined by the market and the provider and not by Brooks.  
I dont know why Brooks replies to say it caught a bounce but I can only assume that 
applies to the investments that could be realised immediately. In any event it didnt say all 
the investments were being realised at prices on that day.
Forward pricing is common for investment funds and I might reasonably have expected the 
FA to be aware of cut off times for trades and that forward pricing would apply so that not all 
investments could be liquidated on the same day. It is also common for there to be different 
cut off times for different investments. 
I have considered whether I think Brooks should have said something about the timing of 
receipt of the instructions affecting the dates that the trades would be made. But this was an 
instruction to liquidate the whole portfolio and in effect bring the investment management relationship to an end. I dont think I would have expected Brooks warn about forward pricing 
or the time before a price for a sale was fixed.
I say that because I have seen a copy of the proposal for Mr Ss bespoke portfolio service 
(BPS). This sets out the responsibilities of Mr Ss professional adviser and Brooks. It says 
that Brooks is responsible for creating and managing the BPS on a discretionary basis in 
accordance with your investment objectives and risk profile. It further says that Brooks does 
not offer advice on general financial planning It warns that financial planning can be 
complex, so we recommend you consider discussing your general financial affairs with a 
professional adviser. It also says that the professional adviser is responsible for a number of 
things including advising you on your investment objectives and risk profile. 
Based on these terms I dont think I would expect Brooks to warn Mr S about forward pricing. 
It seems that Mr S was acting on the advice of his FA at the time he decided to terminate the 
BPS and liquidate his portfolio.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest there was any delay in the realisations by Brooks
I have considered the exchange on the Monday morning. I think this is simply saying that 
transactions are still in process I dont think it implies they have gone through and settlement 
is awaited. Even if I am wrong it would not make any difference as Brooks have said the 
transactions could not have been cancelled once submitted.
For those reasons I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman