DRN-3998237
The complaint
Mr J and Miss M complain that Santander UK Plc took money out of their account four 
months after they should have done which resulted in financial hardship.
What happened
Mr J and Miss M say that on 22 October 2022, they noticed three payments to three 
individual companies had been made and their bank balance was £1.17. They say that these 
payments should have debited their account between 17-18 June 2022. Mr J and Miss M 
said that there were enough funds to meet these payments in June 2022. Miss M said that 
the payments debiting the account in October 2022 caused her financial hardship and she 
incurred late payment charges. Mr J and Miss M made a complaint to Santander. 
Santander did not uphold Mr J and Miss Ms complaint. They said that when making card 
payments, merchants will gain authorisation from them and if they are approved they will be 
given an authorisation code, but it is out of their control when merchants process and collect 
the payments, but they said there was no Santander error here. 
Mr J and Miss M brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold their 
complaint. He said that the three transactions were processed on the days in question and 
then were allocated to the withholdings (pending transactions) section of their account. As 
the merchants did not claim the funds while they were in the withholdings, then - as per 
Santanders process - the funds were added back to the available balance after this wasnt 
claimed by the merchants. 
Our investigator said that he had looked at Santanders internal systems around these 
payments, and they confirmed that the payments were pending and were approved in June 
2022, but they were not claimed until 22 October 2022. He said he had looked at the 
evidence provided by the merchants, but this wouldnt affect the outcome of the case as 
there was no evidence that Santander held the payments for any reason, inputted incorrect 
information, or stopped the merchants claiming these funds. Mr J and Miss M asked for an 
Ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether Santanders terms and condition reference any debit card payment 
delays. Section 6.11 of the terms and conditions says that There can be a delay between 
using your debit card to make a payment and the time when that debit card payment is taken 
from your account. So I do think that Santander make it clear that there can be a delay in 
payments being made with a debit card. This section of the terms and conditions is clear that 
the money is taken. This is important as this indicates it is the merchants that take the 
money from the account as opposed to Santander giving them the money of the payment. 
So the onus would be on the merchant to take the payment that Santander has approved. 
The terms do not state how long the payment can be delayed for, but Santander have 
explained to our service that it can be delayed for up to six months.
In order for me to see if Santander have done anything wrong here Ive looked at their 
internal systems regarding these three transactions. I can tell by looking at these systems 
that Santander approved the payment for one of the merchants for £27.08 on 17 June 2022. 
They approved another payment for one of the merchants for £36.80 on 18 June 2022 and 
for the remaining merchant for £86.31 on 18 June 2022. But the accounting date, or when 
the funds were claimed shows as 22 October 2022. 
Santander have also provided us with another transaction to compare this to. The other 
transaction shows a payment which was approved also on 18 June 2022 on Mr J and Miss 
Ms account for £16.18, but it shows the accounting date of 20 June 2022. So Im satisfied 
that there wasnt an issue with Santanders systems in terms of them preventing merchants 
from taking payments on these dates, as at least one merchant collected the payment within 
two days. 
Ive also looked at another of Santanders internal systems. This shows an audit of the 
current balance and the available balance on the account. The available balance is the 
current balance minus any transactions that are in withholdings, and it shows on 20 June 
2022 that the card payments made on 17-18 June 2022 were in withholdings. Funds are 
typically moved into withholdings to prevent a customer spending money which is about to 
be taken from their account, which they had already agreed with the merchant to take. But 
they dont stay in withholdings indefinitely if they arent collected by the merchant. 
Santanders internal systems show that on 23 June 2022, the available balance on the 
account had increased after the payments in withholdings were not claimed and so the 
withholding was removed/expired as per Santanders process. 
It would have been apparent to Mr J and Miss M that the three payments which had not 
debited their account had not been taken by the three companies as this did not show on 
their statements. Unfortunately, it appears that the companies involved did not take the 
funds until 22 October 2022. I understand this had an impact on Miss M and caused her 
financial hardship, and Im sorry to hear this. But Im satisfied that this wasnt to do with an 
error on Santanders part. They would not be aware of when a third party merchant would 
take the funds after Santander had approved the payment, as this could be as short as one 
day or, as Santander have confirmed, up to six months. But as Ive seen no Santander error, 
it follows that I dont require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman