DRN-4321268
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided him with poor customer service in relation to 
him switching his bank account to them and the errors that later occurred. 
What happened
Mr C says he switched a current account with another provider to Lloyds. He says there 
were issues with the direct debits, and he received poor service from Lloyds when he tried to 
get to the bottom of what happened. Mr C made complaints to Lloyds over these issues.
Lloyds credited Mr Cs account with £75 for the first complaint which was because there 
were two call handlers he spoke to which were hesitant in raising a complaint for him and 
because they did not have the correct number of active direct debits in the communications 
they sent him regarding his switch. They also credited him £18 for call costs.
For the following complaint, Lloyds offered Mr C £30 compensation as they said he was 
given confusing information on calls, and when he spoke to them on 1 December 2022, they 
told him that he could get a list of the direct debits by going into his local branch, but this was 
incorrect information as the branch dont have access to the switching application. They said 
they also gave Mr C confusing information on a few occasions. They told Mr C the direct 
debit list they received from his previous bank, and they said there was only one direct debit 
showing as active on the account, but they named ten companies who were on the direct 
debit list from his previous bank. 
Lloyds said they had checked their records and theres nothing stopping the direct debits 
being paid. They said it is the merchants responsibility to ensure that the account details 
have been updated on their side so that payments can be paid successfully. Lloyds said they 
dont have any control over this, and it is up to the merchant to ensure this.
After a conversation with Lloyds, Mr C received another response to his complaint. Lloyds 
changed the outcome of his complaint. They said they checked their automated system 
audit, and they could see the direct debit for his credit card was accessed, but no direct debit 
was cancelled. Mr C brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said Lloyds offered a fair resolution to 
Mr Cs complaint. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a 
number of points. In summary, he said Lloyds set up the direct debit with his credit card 
provider when they were told to cancel it, and he was paid no compensation for misleading 
advice from Lloyds which led to an unnecessary visit to a branch. He said that the branch 
would not provide him with a full list of the direct debits which his previous bank had sent to 
Lloyds in error.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Mr C that while there are two other banks/building societies involved 
in what happened here, I can only focus on the actions of Lloyds as part of this complaint 
that hes brought to us.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I do agree with Mr C that there is a lot of confusing information and conflicting information 
that hes been given at times from Lloyds. I can see from Lloyds system notes that his 
switch to them completed on 17 November 2022. There is a lot of confusion about his direct 
debit to his third party credit card provider. I can see from the direct debit list that his 
previous bank sent Lloyds, that there were a total of 13 direct debits (some are for the same 
company) that were transferred over to Lloyds. But on this list, only one of them (to an 
energy company) is showing as active. So the third party credit card direct debit was not 
active.
I can see from the system audit that the third party credit card company set up a direct debit 
on Mr Cs Lloyds account on 28 November 2022  this was after his switch was completed. 
Although Mr C wanted this direct debit cancelled, Im not persuaded that Lloyds would be at 
fault for the third party setting up a new direct debit with them. 
I say this as Lloyds have explained to our service that regarding the switch process, if one of 
the direct debit payment requests which would have been asked for as one of the originators 
using his previous bank account, then the system which is used, would know that it was an 
account that was transferred to a Lloyds account, however Lloyds had been told that the 
only active direct debit was a different direct debit and not for his credit card. So no other 
mandates were set up ready for the system redirect of direct debits requested from his 
previous account. So the Lloyds account would reject the payment as there was no active 
mandate, so the originator would receive information that the payment was rejected and the 
Lloyds details. So Im persuaded that is what happened here. The payment was rejected 
which led to the credit card company setting up the direct debit again on 28 November 2022.
The switch had already completed on 17 November 2022, so there is no evidence that 
Lloyds told the credit card provider to set the direct debit up again. I can see that Mr C made 
a call to Lloyds on 28 November 2022  the same day the credit card provider set up the 
direct debit on his account, the evidence shows that while he went to cancel the direct debit, 
he did not actually confirm that he wanted to cancel the direct debit as when the system 
asked him if he wanted more detail he said no and he hung up before the direct debit had 
been cancelled. So while Mr C may have thought he cancelled the direct debit, this is why it 
wasnt cancelled. The audit shows the direct debit was actually cancelled two days later on 
30 November 2022. Although Mr C has sent us a copy of his direct debit list which shows a 
date of 28 November 2022, this is the registration date of when the direct debit was set up, 
not the cancellation date. So Im satisfied it was actually cancelled on 30 November 2022.
Ive considered whether the compensation that Lloyds has paid Mr C is reflective of all of the 
errors which occurred. Im not persuaded it does reflect the impact of what happened, and Ill 
explain why. Mr C was credited £75 compensation (and £18 for call costs) on 28 November 
2022. But there was errors which caused Mr C distress and inconvenience after this date. 
For example, Mr C tried to get a full list of the direct debits that his previous bank sent 
Lloyds. He was told incorrect information to go to the branch, but as the branch didnt have 
access to the switcher application and they told him they couldnt help him with what he 
wanted, then this was a wasted journey for Mr C. 
It appears all Mr C wanted was the list of direct debit companies that switched over to his new account that Lloyds finally told him in their response letter on 30 December 2022  
which was over a month after his previous letter. This letter also acknowledges that he had 
been given confusing information on calls. But Lloyds sent a follow up letter on 17 January 
2023 saying they had changed their decision. But I do think he had confusing and conflicting 
information at times as evidence by him being sent to the branch when they couldnt actually 
help Mr C when he arrived.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Im persuaded that an 
extra £75 compensation is fair for what happened here. While Ive considered that Lloyds 
had previously given Mr C £75 (and £18 call costs), there were further issues which occurred 
after this was awarded. By Lloyds own admission they gave him confusing information over 
the phone, and they sent him to the branch, but they didnt/couldnt help Mr C, causing him 
further inconvenience and distress as this was a wasted journey. At times he was told a 
different number of direct debits were set up on his account, which added to the confusion 
as no context was given as to what was set up as part of the original switch or at a later 
date. So looking at all of the circumstances as a whole, Im persuaded that an extra £75 
compensation is proportionate for what happened here. So it follows I intend to ask Lloyds to 
put things right for Mr C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C a further £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr C a further £75 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman