DRN-3891663
The complaint
Mr P complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (Accredited) handling of a claim 
made under his buildings insurance policy. 
Any references to Accredited include its agents.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr P made a claim for storm damage. Mr P says there was damage to the 
chimney pot, and roof which led to internal damage, and the garage. 
Mr P complained about delays in the handling of the claim. He said the delay in settling the 
claim resulted in the policy being cancelled and another taken out in its place, which caused 
an additional cost. Accredited accepted it caused delays in handling the claim and offered Mr 
P £250 and said it would consider the claim. The offer of compensation was later increased 
to £350.
When Accredited considered Mr Ps claim, it said it wouldnt cover all of the damage. It said 
online images of Mr Ps house showed the damage to the chimney pot was pre-existing, so 
declined this part of the claim. After further investigation, Accredited agreed to meet the cost 
of repairs for the interior of the property and the roof. Accredited said it would arrange for a 
second inspection of the garage because it wasnt certain the damage was caused by storm 
conditions. And it wouldnt reimburse Mr P the £200 spent on temporary repairs to the roof 
because the invoice provided was handwritten on notepaper, rather than on headed paper. 
Mr P remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. In doing so, he raised 
concerns Accredited had told him he wasnt insured, which led to him taking out another 
policy that he had to pay more for. It was considered by one of our investigators who thought 
Accredited had responded fairly. As Mr P didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, my decision here focuses on those issues that are still not resolved. Ill first set 
out my conclusion on the handling of the claim about the garage. And in considering what 
both sides have told us, I think Accrediteds decision to have a further inspection carried out 
is reasonable. I said this because the original survey provided does not show the damage to 
the garage walls was caused by the storm conditions. 
In light of this, it seems reasonable a further survey is carried out to determine if the damage 
to the garage was caused by the storm. Accredited has evidenced it is prepared to consider 
the findings of the new loss adjuster. Im satisfied this is an appropriate step considering the 
initial report was unable to conclude how the damage had been caused and if the damage 
should be covered by the policy. I understand Accredited are waiting for Mr P to confirm a 
date when the new loss adjuster can visit, so Id urge him to provide the timings that are 
convenient for him if hes not already done so. 
Ill turn now to Mr Ps unhappiness at Accrediteds decision not to accept the evidence hes 
provided to support the payment he made for the temporary repair to the roof. I understand 
Mr P felt arranging for someone to carry out the temporary repair was the right course of 
action, so as to mitigate any potential for further damage to his home. However, the receipt 
provided is handwritten on a sheet of paper from a notepad. Theres nothing about this 
receipt that linking the repair Mr P says he paid for to a roofing company. 
I appreciate Mr P says arranging the repair happened quite quickly, and he doesnt have the 
contact details for the company that did the works. But without this further information, 
Accredited is unable to carry out any form of checks on the repair work carried out. Im 
satisfied the requests Accredited made for additional information were reasonable. I dont 
consider the evidence provided is sufficient for me to say Accredited should refund Mr P for 
the costs he says were incurred arranging the temporary repair, so Im not going to require it 
to provide a refund. 
Ive considered Mr Ps view he was told by Accredited he wasnt insured. While that may be 
his recollection of the conversations, I havent seen or heard anything to support that Mr P 
was told this. It appears Mr P took the decision to cancel his policy. Therefore, Im not going 
to ask Accredited to cover any costs Mr P says he incurred as a result of taking out a new 
policy. 
Lastly, Ive considered Mr Ps concerns about the delays in handling the claim. Its clear 
there were delays and these were caused by Accredited. Its made an offer of £350 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr P as a result of this delay. 
Its clear Mr P was concerned about the outstanding repairs his home needed. Overall, Im 
satisfied the compensation payment is appropriate and recognises the impact this delay had 
on Mr P. Im not going to require Accredited to increase it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman