DRN-3280717
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about Tesco Underwritings decision to turn down a claim for 
damage to an underground pipe system under their home insurance policy.
All references to Tesco include its appointed agents.
Mr and Mrs K are being represented in this complaint by a third party. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to them directly in my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and have been summarised by 
our investigator, so I wont repeat them here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on the 
reasons for giving my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs Ks policy covers, The cost of repairing accidental damage to 
underground drains, pipes, cables and tanks which you are legally responsible for 
and which provide services to and from your home. And accidental damage is 
defined as, Sudden, unexpected physical damage which has not been caused 
deliberately.
So, for the claim to succeed it must be shown the damage was caused accidently in 
line with the definition above.
Tescos position is that it hasnt been shown from the expert report and investigations 
that the damage was accidental, so theres no insured event for the policy to respond 
to. Mr and Mrs Ks position is that theyve done enough to show the damage was 
sudden, unexpected, and not caused deliberately, so the claim should succeed. And 
they say that due to the way accidental damage is defined, this does not necessarily 
require a cause of damage to be evidenced.
Ive considered all the photos, reports and drain surveys provided by both parties. 
The reports from Mr and Mrs Ks engineer (B) and Tescos engineer (P) show 
damage to more than one area of the system  including fibreglass cracking, back-
fall in the inlet pipe, several dents to a foul line, a failure of the air compressor/pump, 
and multiple cracks to the top bands of the unit.
Ps report concludes that the damage is more consistent with an installation issue 
rather than accidental damage. And Bs scope of works suggests that the entire 
system needs to be replaced. B doesnt comment on the cause of the damage, but 
this isnt a requirement for a valid claim under the policy.
As Tesco declined the claim, the onus is on Mr and Mrs K to show the damage 
happened suddenly and therefore should be covered. While Bs report clearly shows 
evidence of damage, it doesnt explain how the damage happened accidently. So, I 
dont think theyve done enough to show that the claim should be covered.
Further, both reports agree that there is damage to multiple parts of the system, it 
therefore seems unlikely that it happened suddenly and at one point in time. Rather, 
in the circumstances of this case, I am more persuaded by Ps report and that the 
extent of damage suggests a deterioration over time. So, it remains that theres no 
evidence from either party that shows the damage is accidental, and which would 
require the policy to respond. Therefore, I conclude that Tesco has acted fairly in 
turning down the claim.
Ive considered the timeline of events in the claim for any undue or avoidable delay. I 
can see that Mr and Mrs K were keen to progress the claim, but Tesco was also 
entitled to investigate and validate the damage. And this required site visits, surveys, 
and reports to be completed. With this in mind, I dont consider the overall timeframe 
to be unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs K have provided us with examples of previous decisions where our 
service said it was unfair for an insurer to decline a claim for accidental damage to 
underground pipes. We look at each individual case on its own merits and in any 
event, I note that the examples provided are ones where the insurer relied on an 
exclusion to turn down the claim, such as for wear and tear. That isnt the case here; 
the crux of the issue is that the claim has been turned down because theres no 
evidence of an insured event for the policy to cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman