DRN-3820754
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Northern Bank Limited (Northern Bank) blocked his cards and account 
following it asking him to provide ID documents to satisfy its Know Your Customer (KYC) 
checks. He is unhappy it wouldnt give him specific details on what enables it to ask for this 
information and block his account.  
What happened
Northern Bank wrote to Mr B on 8 November 2021 explaining that legislation in the UK 
means it has an increased responsibility for knowing and understanding how its customers 
operate their bank accounts, as well as regularly checking their personal data is correct and 
up to date. It asked Mr B to provide an updated document to confirm his identity and 
address. This letter gave 30 days to provide the information and warned that a block may 
need to be applied to the account if it wasnt received. 
A reminder letter was sent on 16 December 2021 as Mr B had not responded. This gave a 
further two months to provide the information, again warning Mr B his card and account may 
be blocked if the request wasnt complied with. 
In the meantime, Northern Bank had also spoken to Mr B by phone on 15 December 2021 
and explained what it needed to complete its KYC checks. Mr B has explained that he asked 
Northern Bank on what basis it can ask him for this information. He says he was originally 
told it was an obligation put in place by the regulator and he was later told Northern Bank 
were following various pieces of legislation, including anti money laundering legislation, but it 
wouldnt give the specific sections it was relying on. 
Because Mr B didnt provide the requested information, Northern Bank placed a block on his 
card on 24 February 2022 and then on his account on 10 March 2022. 
Following the final response that was issued to Mr B on 8 March 2022, he did provide some 
documentation, but it wasnt deemed sufficient. So, upon further discussions, Northern Bank 
decided to close Mr Bs account.   
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it, explaining that 
Northern Bank was entitled to ask for information to complete its KYC checks and gave Mr B 
reasonable deadlines to provide this and avoid the blocks being placed on his account. She 
was satisfied Northern Bank had acted correctly and in line with the account terms and 
conditions.
Mr B disagreed. He raised three points:
The first letter Northern Bank sent him was sent to an address it knew he didnt live 
at. This is his brothers address and one he uses as he travels around England a lot 
for work.
The investigator hadnt investigated why Northern Bank had persistently changed the 
source of its request.
Northern Bank didnt provide the specific parts of the legislation supporting its 
request for the information and which gave them the ability to block his account. He 
says if Northern Bank had been more specific this would have ended differently, and 
he feels the investigators opinion lets Northern Bank off the hook for this. 
Because Mr B disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northern Bank has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when 
providing account services to its customers. These include the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) Rulebook, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook and various 
pieces of primary and secondary legislations. These obligations are ongoing so dont just 
apply at account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review 
accounts and request information from its customers. If Northern Bank didnt do this, it could 
risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, I dont think Northern Bank made an error in asking Mr B to complete its 
KYC checks. And I think it was generous with the deadlines it gave to him. And whilst I 
appreciate his reasons, he didnt provide the required information by these deadlines. So, 
having warned Mr B of the consequences, Northern Bank took steps to block his card and 
account. It did this to ensure its continued compliance with its legal and regulatory 
obligations and importantly, acted in line with Section 9.3 of the terms and conditions of the 
account which detail that it may stop the use of a card or service if it reasonably believes it 
has to do so under an applicable law or regulation. 
Mr B asked Northern Bank various times for it to specify the basis on which it was asking 
him for the information and what gave it the right to block his account. I appreciate Mr B 
believes Northern Bank should have been more specific than just quoting generic anti-
money laundering legislation, but Im satisfied it acted reasonably by providing the 
information it did. Ultimately, Mr B is able to find out more through his own research. 
I have no reason to doubt him when he says he received conflicting information on a phone 
call with Northern Bank about the FCA Handbook and I appreciate this may have 
exacerbated Mr Bs suspicions around the request for his information. But Im ultimately 
satisfied Northern Bank gave him the relevant details about why it required this information. 
Its clear that only the specific sections of the legislation would have been enough to 
persuade Mr B to comply with the request and as mentioned above, this isnt something 
Northern Bank has to reasonably provide. 
So, whilst I know it may come as a disappointment, Im satisfied Northern Bank was entitled 
to carry out KYC checks and gave Mr B sufficient opportunity to provide the correct 
documentation and avoid the account blocks. Im therefore satisfied Northern Bank didnt 
make any errors that would warrant it compensating Mr B for the trouble and upset he faced 
when his account was blocked. 
Mr B raised the fact Northern Bank sent the letters to an address it knew he wasnt living at. 
But this is the address it has for him, so Im satisfied it acted correctly in sending 
correspondence there. It is Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he has mechanisms in place to 
check his post. In any event, the issue here wasnt a lack of time to provide the information, 
rather a disagreement about why this information was needed. The fact the letters went to 
his postal address didnt hinder Mr B as he was aware in December 2021 of the information he needed to provide having spoken to Northern Bank, and entered discussions with it over 
the phone and secure messaging at that point, over the reasons why. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Northern Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman