DRN-3853205
The complaint
Miss B has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under her 
home insurance policy.
Miss B is represented in this case by Ms C, who I will refer to at various points in this 
decision. References to AXA include companies and contractors acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms C contacted AXA to make a claim following a flood at Miss Bs home. AXA accepted the 
claim and started drying the property. The drying was signed off as complete but when 
works were due to start, the kitchen floor was lifted and water and mould was found. Drying 
had to restart at the property.
Ms C raised a number of complaints with AXA because of the impact of the delays with 
progressing the claim. When AXA replied it accepted there had been issues and offered a 
total of £360 compensation.
So, Ms C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said AXA 
could have done more to progress the claim and to assist Miss B due to her disability. He 
said AXA should pay an additional £500 compensation.
As Miss B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have read the detailed evidence about the claim and complaint, which I will briefly 
summarise. Im aware of the range of issues, even if I dont refer to all of them here. When 
Ms C first registered the claim, AXA seemed to promptly start the drying process. When the 
property was signed off as dry, it then seemed to take considerable chasing from Ms C for 
the claim to progress. This included the drying certificate not being issued and contractors 
not providing information. There were also issues, such as with the storage of items. When a 
start date was proposed for the works, this was more than three months after the drying was 
completed. The start date was then missed and Ms C also hadnt been asked for material 
choices for some of the work. Works were then rescheduled to start about two months after 
the previously agreed start date. When the works started, a contractor lifted the kitchen floor 
and found moisture and spores.
I would expect some aspects of the work to still need to be agreed after drying was 
completed. For example, to ensure the level of damage was clear. But there were clearly a 
number of errors and communication issues that delayed the works from progressing. Miss 
B also needed confirmation of how the furniture and other issues would be dealt with, as 
items, some of which were bulky, needed to be moved before the works could start. Many 
months after the original drying was completed, further drying was identified that needed to 
be carried out, which continued to delay the work to repair the damage from starting.
I can see this had a significant impact on Miss B and the delays and the reasons for them 
went well beyond the level of distress and inconvenience that might be expected as part of 
any claim. Miss B also had a medical condition and was a wheelchair user. So, I think the 
issues with her home, including the significant ongoing disruption to it and the issues around 
moving and storing items will have impacted her more than others might be affected. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Im aware the issues also affected Miss Bs representative 
and other family members. However, Miss B is the only person named on the policy and the 
only person I can award compensation to. AXA confirmed to this service that it had already 
offered £360 compensation. Given the range of issues, including the multiple delays in 
progressing the claim, poor communication between contractors and the issues with the 
drying, I think AXA should pay an additional £500 compensation. So, a total of £860. I think 
this is a significant level of compensation that more fairly reflects the impact on Miss B of the 
issues throughout the claim.
Im aware that issues continued with this claim after the complaint period Ive considered and 
that Ms C has made further complaints. But I havent taken this into account as part of my 
decision, as they need to be considered by AXA. 
Putting things right
AXA should pay an additional £500 compensation, which is a total of £860 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss B an additional £500 compensation, which is a total of 
£860 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman