DRN-3756964
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to notify him regarding a 
dormant account or return the funds held in the account.
What happened
Mr W held an account with Barclays. The account was closed in December 2012.
Mr W received a letter dated 14 June 2022 stating that the account has been located with a 
nil balance. Mr W says he has a statement from January 2012 showing a balance of £200 
and that he hadnt used the account from this point until closure and wants to know where 
the balance went.  
Barclays said it had received a request to close the account into its closed account team in 
December 2012 but due to the passage of time it is no longer able to view the request. But 
its account ledgers show the funds were transferred out of the account prior to closure. 
Mr W was dis-satisfied with this  he says he hasnt any issue with the account being closed 
but says he never received the funds and wants Barclays to compensate him for this and 
brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion that there 
wasnt enough evidence to suggest that Barclays had treated Mr W unfairly and that based 
on the information they had they thought the funds had been returned to Mr W. 
Mr W disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr W has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr W back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable. And, where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive 
based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Mr W complains that Barclays failed to return the funds it held in a dormant account. 
Barclays say the funds were transferred out of the account prior to the account closure with 
a Nil balance in December 2012. Due to the passage of time Barclays no longer holds all the 
information relating to the closure of the account  this is not an error by Barclays, as banks 
are not obliged to hold information such as this for longer than six years. So I cant say 
Barclays has done anything wrong when it has not been able to show that the funds it held 
were returned to Mr W over 10 years ago.
Barclays say if there were any funds remaining in the account at closure it wouldve paid the 
funds to Mr W the account holder. I can see from the account ledgers that £200.35 was 
transferred out of the account on 12 December 2012 and that the account was closed with a 
Nil balance. Based on this and the fact Mr W was contacted about an account with a nil 
balance and without seeing anything else, I think it is likely the funds were returned to Mr W 
at the time rather than anything else. I appreciate that Mr W would like further proof of this, 
but as stated above due to the passage of time this just simply isnt available. 
So it follows based on the information I have I think it is likely Mr W received the funds held 
in his account prior to it being closed and Im not upholding his complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman