DRN-4035051
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Society of Lloyds increased the cost of his income protection insurance
premiums.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr T took out an income protection policy underwritten by Society of Lloyds.
The policy covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment and was priced at £49.49
per month.
In July 2020 Society of Lloyds wrote to Mr T to say that his policy was a monthly renewable
policy and that amendments could be made with 30 days notice. They said the policy
wording doesnt confirm the cover is monthly renewable but referred to an annual review.
They said this information needed to be corrected and they provided updated wording.
Shortly after this letter was sent Mr T was notified that his monthly premiums would increase
from £49.49 to £61.28 per month. There was then a further increase from £61.28 to £119.76
in 2021. Mr T was unhappy that the underwriters relied on the updated wording to justify the
increase and said he couldnt afford the increased premiums. He said the situation was very
stressful as he would potentially need to rely on the insurance in the coming weeks or
months due to the economic uncertainty caused by Covid-19 and had been priced out of the
market.
Mr T complained to Society of Lloyds. In their initial response they said theyd acted in line
with the policy terms and that the increases were necessary to ensure the underwriter could
continue to provide protection for customers. Mr T escalated his complaint and
Society of Lloyds further responded to say that the increase was in line with the policy terms
and had been applied to all policyholders. And they said, in summary, this was a commercial
decision they were entitled to make.
Unhappy with Society of Lloyds response Mr T complained to the Financial Ombudsman
Service. He said that nowhere in the policy documentation did it say the policy was a
monthly renewable contract and that the documentation was unclear and misleading. He
thought the insurer had materially changed the nature of the contract of insurance and had
no basis to justify the increase in premiums. He said this left him with a product he couldnt
afford at a time when he most needed it and he was unable to shop around for alternatives
because income protection policies had been withdrawn from the market.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr Ts complaint. He didnt think
the policy terms did make it clear the policy premiums could increase at any time and that
this wasnt apparent until the price increased twice within a period of seven months. And,
he didnt think Society of Lloyds had made clear, with reference to the underwriting data,
why the premiums increased so much. So, he recommended Society of Lloyds pay Mr T
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr T accepted the investigators findings. Society of Lloyds provided further information in
support of the reasons for the increase in the price of premiums. They referred to the letter
sent to Mr T in September 2020 which explained that the scheme had sustained losses and
there was no alternative but to increase the premiums to ensure ongoing cover. And, they
said that Mr T might have faced a more significant increase in premium at the annual 
renewal date, if hed taken out an annually renewable policy rather than a monthly
renewable policy. They remained of the view the underwriter had acted fairly and
reasonably. So, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy documentation
The policy documentation, issued to Mr T in May 2019, and at the annual review in 2020,
referred to the annually reviewable nature of the insurance. The schedule of insurance set
out the monthly and annual costs of the policy.
The insurance product information document (IPID) says on page two:
Cover commences on the date shown in your schedule and will continue each month
on a rolling basis.
On page 7, under the heading Payment of Premiums, the terms say:
If there are any changes to the rate of insurance premium tax or if we are required to
impose any other tax or charges in respect of your premium, then we will amend your
premium payment from the date when those changes take effect.
Under the heading Annual Review, on page 23, the policy terms say:
We will review your policy each year on your policy anniversary date, which shall be
the date 12 months from the start date of your policy and annually thereafter. Any
changes that we wish to make will be implemented with effect from the next or
nearest policy anniversary date. We may make changes to policy cover and/or terms
and conditions as a result of the cost of providing this cover to you, therefore your
premium may increase or decrease or remain unchanged as a result of the annual
review. Please note there is no limit to the size or nature of the changes.
You will be notified in writing at least a minimum of 21 days prior to your policy
anniversary start date each year, of any changes which we intend to make to your 
policy.
In July 2020 Mr T received a letter clarifying that the policy was a monthly rolling policy and
saying that amendments could be made by giving 30 days notice. The letter said the policy
wording doesnt confirm that the cover was monthly renewable but does refer to an annual
review. The letter went on to say this information needed to be corrected and provided a
copy of updated policy terms and conditions.
This included the following wording under the heading, Payment of Premiums on page 7:
If there are any changes to the rate of insurance premium tax or if we are required to
impose any other tax or charges in respect of your premium, then we will amend yourpremium payment from the date when those changes take effect. The premium will
alter if you alter your monthly benefit and/or cover option and we can alter your
premium at any time provided we let you know 30 days in advance.
And, on page 23, under the heading Making Changes it said:
Your policy is designed to adapt to your requirements and provide the cover you
want over many years but it is important to note that we can alter the terms of the
policy, the cover options available and the premiums applicable if we feel it is
appropriate. If we feel any such change is necessary we will advise you what is to
change, why it is to change and we will do this as quickly as possible but in any event
at least 30 days before the change applies. 
The relevant law, industry rules and industry guidelines
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook and Society of Lloyds is obliged to follow these.
They include:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence
Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 7 - A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD
makes clear that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the
customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time of the
claim. Thats for insurers  and their agents  to make clear what the key benefits, and
significant limitations, of cover are. And, they also need to ensure that consumers are given
clear information about what changes can be made to the policy during its lifetime.
Has Society of Lloyds treated Mr T fairly?
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint and directing Society of Lloyds to pay £500 compensation
because:
The policy wording didnt make it clear that the policy was monthly renewable.
Society of Lloyds acknowledged in their letter of July 2020 that the policy wording
didnt say the policy was monthly renewable and needed to be corrected.
The policy documentation Mr T was provided with when he took out the policy, and atthe annual review point, referred to it being annually reviewable. This was also
reflected in other sections of the policy documentation, such as the schedule of
insurance.
I dont think Society of Lloyds made it sufficiently clear to Mr T that his policy was a
monthly contract or what the implications of this were. This meant his premiums
could increase at any time, and those increases could be unlimited in nature. I think 
this was a significant limitation in cover which ought to have been clearly highlighted 
to him. I dont think this was clear, prominent or transparent in the policy 
documentation.
Mr T didnt realise the implications of this until the price of his policy increased in
October 2020 and again in 2021, following the clarification of the policy terms and
conditions. I think this has caused him confusion, distress and inconvenience.
Following the impact of Covid-19 it was increasingly difficult for Mr T to source
alternative cover. Hes told us that hes been unable to get an alternative policy. So,
hes in a position where he has to pay significantly higher premiums which hes
described as unaffordable.
I think if Mr T had known that the price of the policy could be subject to unlimited 
changes, which could take place more than once a year, its unlikely hed have taken
out this policy. I think its more likely that hed have taken out an annually renewable
policy which offered him greater stability.
Mr T complained to Society of Lloyds in September 2020 shortly after he was
notified of the clarification of the policy terms and the first increase which took place
outside of the annual review period. In his complaint he said this wasnt fair and
meant hed either have to pay the increased premiums or cancel at a time when he
couldnt access an alternative product. Throughout his complaint hes referred back
to the original terms of the contract which specified the policy was subject to annual
review. So, all of this leads me to conclude, on balance, this would have been an
important feature of the policy to Mr T.
Mr T took out the policy to ensure financial stability and security during uncertain
times. Now, he is struggling to make payments for the increased payments and cant
move provider. So, this had an immediate short-term impact on Mr T and a longer 
term impact as well. I think £500 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused
by this loss of expectation at an already worrying and uncertain time.
Society of Lloyds also said that they were confused as to why the investigator
referred to RPPD whilst also acknowledging the impact of Covid-19 on the income
protection market. And they provided further information about their decision to
increase the policy premiums, re-iterating the explanations it gave to Mr T about the
need to increase the premiums to ensure ongoing cover. But, even if I accepted this
explanation, I still dont think the policy documents were clear enough about the
premium increases which in effect, were unlimited in both frequency and size. I think
this has placed Mr T at a disadvantage and he has lost out as a result.
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to put things right by paying Mr T
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint about Society of Lloyds and direct them to put things right in
the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman