DRN-1888947
The complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (which Ill call VWFS) 
charged him over £6,700 when he returned a van hed taken on hire purchase. He says the 
van was faulty, and that was the reason he ended the agreement when he did.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr B took a van on a five-year hire purchase agreement from VWFS. The 
van had been first registered in May 2016. The hire purchase agreement recorded its 
mileage at just under 28,000, although maintenance records suggest it may have been 
about 4,000 miles less than that. Its cash price was just over £24,000 and the total amount 
due under the agreement was a little over £30,000. Monthly payments were nearly £500. 
Over the rest of 2018 the van had a number of minor repairs and maintenance carried out by 
the dealership. It appears that the issues at that time were resolved and Mr B was able to 
continue to use the van. 
In February 2019 however Mr B reported that the van was making unacceptable mechanical 
noises. He told our investigator that they developed after about 50-100 miles of driving. The 
vans clutch and flywheel were replaced, and, later, injectors as well. Mr B said however that 
the problem persisted. He was unable to use the van for his work as a delivery driver. The 
dealership was however unable to identify any remaining issue which hadnt been resolved.
In June 2019 Mr B asked VWFS for a voluntary termination statement  that is, what he 
would have to pay to end the agreement early. He indicated that he wanted to end the 
agreement because of ongoing problems with the vehicle. 
Mr B returned the van and VWFS sought a payment of a little over £6,700 to end the 
agreement. That was, it said, the difference between half the total amount due under the 
agreement and what Mr B had already paid. Mr B didnt think that was fair, given the 
problems hed had with the van over the previous 18 months. Unhappy with the response, 
he referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded however that VWFS had treated Mr B unfairly. He noted 
that the dealership had made repairs but wasnt persuaded there were any remaining issues. 
He noted too that the mileage by June 2019 was over 70,000. Mr B didnt accept the 
investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons.
Ill discuss first the charge for ending the agreement before the end of its five-year term. The 
agreement said that Mr B could end the agreement early. If he did so, he would have to 
return the van and pay half the total amount payable under the agreement. In assessing 
what was due, therefore, VWFS gave credit for payments Mr B had already made. Im 
satisfied therefore that VWFS didnt charge any more than it was entitled to charge under the 
hire purchase agreement. 
I must therefore consider what Mr B has said about the condition of the van and whether 
theres any reason to reduce the amount he was asked to pay. 
The hire purchase agreement was, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, to be read as 
including a term that the van was of satisfactory quality. An item is of satisfactory quality if it 
is of the quality that a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. 
There is evidence here that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality. In particular, I note that the 
dealership agreed to carry out several repairs within a year. That indicates however that at 
least some of problems with the van were resolved by those repairs and that Mr B agreed to 
them. I note as well that Mr B drove the van some 40,000 miles  so it is to be expected that 
its condition in June 2019 would be rather different from its condition in January 2018.  
Mr B says however that there were still problems, evidenced by a knocking sound. The 
dealership was however unable to identify the problem Mr B had described. Because of that, 
the only evidence of an outstanding problem is what Mr B has said; there isnt, for example, 
any engineers report or other independent verification of what Mr B has said. I dont believe 
therefore that I can fairly conclude that there were any outstanding issues. 
In conclusion, therefore, I accept that there were problems with the van at delivery and 
afterwards. In my view, however, enough was done to resolve those issues and I dont 
believe it would be fair to require VWFS to reduce the termination payment.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman