DRN-3862376
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled her claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its
repairer and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in
2018.
For the year from mid-February 2021, Mrs S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy
with Admiral.
Unfortunately, in mid- December 2021, the car was involved in an incident and suffered
frontal damage. Mrs S made a claim to Admiral. It arranged for the car to be taken to its
repairer.
Mrs S complained to Admiral about poor communication and service. By a final response
dated early January 2022, Admiral upheld that complaint in part. It said it was sending Mrs S
a cheque for £50.00.
By late February 2022, Mrs S had made a further complaint. In late April 2022, Admiral told
Mrs S of her right to bring her complaint to us.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us in early May 2022.
In mid-July 2022, Mrs S made a further complaint to Admiral. It sent a further final response.
Admiral upheld Mrs Ss complaint in part. It said it was sending her a cheque for £200.00 for
distress and inconvenience and a further £25.00 as an apology for delay in responding to
her complaint.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator gave an opinion in early August 2022. He said that he would deal with the
complaint about events up to 6 May 2022, when Mrs S brought the complaint to us. He
recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part.
He thought that Admiral hadnt given Mrs S enough updates, which had caused additional
distress and inconvenience. He recommended that Admiral should pay Mrs S £300.00 for
the distress and inconvenience up to 6 May 2022.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S   
and to Admiral on 17 November 2022. I summarise my findings:
Admiral shouldve communicated better. It shouldve responded to Mrs S, in 
particular when it had said it would. I accepted Mrs Ss complaint that the impact of 
Admirals poor communication included that she had to contact Admiral to chase for 
information. And she felt that Admiral was ignoring her.
I kept in mind that Mrs S has a health issue and wished to avoid stress. Overall I 
considered that  in addition to the £50.00 paid in January 2022  a further £300.00 
would be fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience up to 
early May 2022.
Subject to any further information from Mrs S or from Admiral, I intended to direct Admiral to 
pay Mrs S  in addition to the amounts of £50.00 and £200.00 it had already paid  a further 
£100.00 for distress and inconvenience
Neither Mrs S nor Admiral has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. We look at a consumers complaint about an unfair act or omission by an
insurance company or other regulated financial firm. Where we uphold a complaint about an
unfair act or omission, we look at its impact on the consumer and we may direct the firm to
take steps to put that right.
One of the rules has the effect that a consumer must first make a complaint to the firm and
wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we can investigate that complaint. Also,
our procedure requires an investigators opinion on a complaint before we can give a final
decision on it.
In Mrs Ss case, the investigator said he was looking at events up to 6 May 2022.
Notwithstanding the final response in July 2022, my final decision will deal only with acts or
omissions up to 6 May 2022.
Admirals policy terms included the following:
What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay.
 to repair your vehicle
 a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle.
Should we deem your vehicle repairable but are unable to complete or guarantee the
repairs, we will offer you a cash sum to cover reasonable costs of parts and labour.

A decision will be made based on the garage/engineer's recommendation.
That term meant that Admiral could choose whether to pay for a repair or to pay a cash sum.
It said that a decision would be based on the recommendation of the garage or engineer.
The policy terms contained the following exception:We will not pay
7. For any loss in the market value of your vehicle as a result of it being damaged or
stolen
In my view, that means that Admiral did not have to pay for diminution in the value of the car
as a result of the stigma of it having been damaged and repaired (or stolen and recovered).
The policy terms also contained the following term:
If you do not wish to use our approved repairers an additional excess will apply,
which will be confirmed on your Policy Schedule. We will be unable to provide you
with a courtesy car. You will need to give us an estimate from your preferred
repairer.
So Mrs S could instruct a repairer of her choice, but Admiral wouldnt provide a courtesy car.
The accident was a shock to Mrs S. The need to make a claim was, in my view, bound to
involve a level of inconvenience, for example in communicating with Admiral.
When she brought her complaint to us in early May 2022, Mrs Ss complaint form included a
statement that she still hadnt got her car back or received an update. So I accept that she
was complaining about delay and poor communication up to that time.
From what Ive seen, I find it likely that Admiral was responsible for some unnecessary delay
up to that time. But Mrs S had the benefit of a hire car, which mitigated her inconvenience.
In early May 2022, Mrs Ss complaint form included a statement that, in late December 2021,
she had asked for a second opinion on her car. She sent us the initial repair estimate of
about £8,750.00. Mrs S said that this omitted some damage. From what has happened
since, I find it likely that Mrs S was correct, in particular that the estimate hadnt included
damage to the offside driveshaft.
However, I consider that Admiral had the right to decide to repair the car based on the
recommendation of the repairer. I dont consider that Admiral shouldve got a second opinion
in late December 2021.
Mrs S couldve instructed another repairer. But the policy terms said that if she did, Admiral
wouldnt have had to continue to supply the hire car.
I dont consider that  in deciding whether to repair the car - Admiral had to take into account
the cost of the hire car. I dont find Admirals decision to repair the car unfair or
unreasonable.
Admiral shouldve communicated better. It shouldve responded to Mrs S, in particular when
it had said it would. I accept Mrs Ss complaint that the impact of Admirals poor
communication included that she had to contact Admiral to chase for information. And she
felt that Admiral was ignoring her.
I keep in mind that Mrs S has a health issue and wished to avoid stress. Overall I consider
that  in addition to the £50.00 paid in January 2022  a further £300.00 would be fair and
reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience up to early May 2022.
Mrs Ss complaint form in May 2022 didnt (or couldnt) contain a complaint about any of the
following:
After shed made the claim, she had to pay keep paying for the insurance (the balance of the premium for the year to mid-February 2022 and the renewal premium 
for the following year).
The cars warranty expired.
Admiral caused uncertainty about the availability of a hire car.
Her car didnt pass the inspection in early September 2022. But she hasnt been 
given any information since.
She still didnt have her car back as at late October 2022.
Shes paying for insurance she cannot currently use.
She wouldnt feel safe driving the vehicle when its returned.
Admiral did an MOT in September 2022.
The car did 120 miles during the repair.
Any other act or omission post-dating early May 2022. 
So I wont comment on any of the above list of issues.
Nevertheless, Ive seen that Admirals final response in late July 2022 tried to put things right
for some delay and poor communication (and the expiry of the warranty). 
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to give Admiral credit for its payments of £50.00 and £200.00.
I intend to direct Admiral to pay Mrs S a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience
(arising from acts or omissions up to early May 2022). 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs S  in addition to the amounts of 
£50.00 and £200.00 it has already paid  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman