DRN-3628403
The complaint
Ms N complains that Zurich Insurance Plc carried out repairs to her car under her motor 
insurance policy without her consent. 
What happened
Ms Ns car was damaged in an accident with a lorry and she made a claim on her policy. 
Zurich took her car for repairs. Ms N said it carried them out without her consent and Ms N 
had to pay her policy excess, £1,350. This caused her financial difficulties and she had to 
arrange a repayment plan. Zurich agreed it should have sent Ms N a copy of the repairs 
costs before they were completed. And it paid her £150 compensation for this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Zurich 
had told Ms N that the repairs would be made after the car had been collected and she 
would then have to pay her excess. It had said the repairs would need to be authorised, but 
by itself, not Ms N. 
He thought Zurich should have sent Ms N a copy of the repairs costs. But he didnt think this 
would change the outcome as the car wasnt driveable and needed to be repaired. And the 
cost was less than the excess. And he thought Zurich had reasonably agreed to recover half 
Ms Ns excess from the other drivers insurer after the claim was settled as split liability. 
Ms N replied that she had been told that no repairs would be made without her consent. She 
said this had left her in debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, Ms N had a collision with a lorry at a roundabout. I was sorry to hear 
about the distress and upset this episode has caused Ms N. I can understand that dealing 
with a claim can be a confusing and stressful experience. Our approach in cases like this is 
to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably.
Ms N said she had told Zurich that she wanted a quote for the repairs so that she could then 
decide whether to go through her insurance or save up to have the repairs done privately. 
And I can see from Zurichs notes that Ms N told the agent this when she first reported the 
accident. Ms N said she would check with her broker to see if she had excess recovery 
cover.
Ms N then spoke to another agent on that same day. This agent talked through Ms Ns 
further options. In this call, the agent explained that if the car was collected, it would be 
repaired, and the excess would be payable when this was completed. 
Ms N was worried about the excess. And the agent explained that she could ask the garage 
to consider the option of a repayment plan, but he couldnt guarantee this. He said a 
courtesy car would be provided when the car was on site. Ms N said she was unsure 
whether she wanted to incur the policy excess charge. But I didnt hear her tell the agent that 
she needed to know the repairs cost before she made a decision about repairs.
A week later, Ms N called Zurich and spoke to a different agent. The agent told Ms N that 
Zurich had received the repairs estimate and it would take Zurich a few days to authorise 
them. I didnt hear mention that Ms N would authorise the repairs. 
Ms N said this agent wasnt listening and she arranged for her car to be collected by a 
garage and then repaired. The garage provided a courtesy car during this time. It then asked 
Ms N to pay the policy excess to release her car. Ms N couldnt afford this and had to take 
out a loan to pay it. This has unfortunately left her in debt. 
In the initial call, Ms N had said she would need to consider the costs. And I can see that she 
told the second agent that she was worried about the excess. But she didnt repeat that she 
wanted to consider the estimate before deciding whether or not to proceed. Instead, she 
agreed for her car to be collected by the garage. And in doing this I think she agreed to 
proceed with the repairs. 
The policy allows Zurich, not Ms N, to authorise repairs once a claim has been accepted. 
The agent told Ms N that it had received the estimate. This was made from photographs 
taken by the garage when it inspected the car. I think Zurich had told Ms N clearly that if her 
car was collected by the garage then it would be repaired, and she would need to pay her 
policy excess. So I think Zurich gave Ms N sufficient information about the progress of her 
claim and repairs. And so I dont think it did anything wrong. 
In any case, I think Ms N didnt lose out from this, although I can understand her worry that 
she is now in debt. This is because Ms Ns car was undriveable after the accident. She told 
us that she needed it to get to her workplace. And I think she also had the benefit of the 
courtesy car. 
Zurich agreed, although it had no record of this, that it should have sent Ms N a breakdown 
of the repair costs. And I think its payment of £150 compensation for this was fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. Its also agreed to recover half of 
Ms Ns policy excess from the other insurer, despite this not being provided by Ms Ns policy. 
I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman