DRN-2606146
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In September 1998 Mrs B opened a store card account. 
In February 2001, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 Mrs B owed on her store card and it 
protected Mrs Bs store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Mrs B mainly said she didnt remember ever being asked about PPI  she assumed it was a 
necessity for taking out the card. 
Our adjudicator explained that Mrs B had taken out the PPI in 2001 during a phone call and 
didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B still felt that the policy was mis-sold to her. 
In summary, Mrs B feels its unfair to conclude that the sale of the policy was fair when 
theres no call recording. She told us she wouldve had full sick pay from work for 6 months 
which was plenty to cover the small balance on her store card. And she told us that she had 
8 or 9 other cards where she hadnt taken out PPI  so its clear that PPI wasnt something 
she thought was useful and theres no reason she wouldve agreed to take it out on this card 
 unless she was pressured to do so.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
Its unsurprising that Mrs B doesnt recall the phone call when AXAs records indicate it sold 
her PPI. This happened a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs B to 
remember details of a phone conversation from around 20 years ago. This means that what 
Mrs B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look 
at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording  but I wouldnt expect it to still have call 
recordings from 2001. When personal private information is no longer likely to be needed, it 
can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out rules about this. Destroying old information 
helps to keep customers private details secure. I can appreciate that Mrs B feels frustrated 
by the lack of any call recording. But the fact that AXA cant now produce this isnt a reason 
for me to uphold this complaint. 
I also havent seen a copy of the call script used at the time and I dont know what AXA said 
to Mrs B when the policy was sold. 
But based on what this service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was 
to sell PPI. So it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main 
features of the policy to see if Mrs B wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for more than 
2 years without PPI, I think Mrs B wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
And looking at Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for 
the policy. (Ill say more about this later).
On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account during the phone call 
when Mrs B chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the benefits and deciding 
she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that AXA advised Mrs B to take out the PPI so 
AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for her. But it still should have provided 
Mrs B with clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
If this didnt happen, I've also thought about whether this makes any overall difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs B had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
Mrs B told us that her employer wouldve paid her 6 months' full sick pay followed by half 
pay for 6 months 
The policy paid out a benefit if Mrs B couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. It wouldve paid out on top of sick 
pay  and in full for longer than she couldve relied on getting full sick pay from work. This 
couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs B needed to 
claim as she mightve had extra costs if she was ill or disabled and she wouldve been on 
only half her normal pay after 6 months off work sick.   
Although shes mentioned having only a small card balance, there was no guarantee when 
Mrs B took out her card that this would always be the case. PPI offered Mrs B protection for 
her store card monthly repayments, whatever the balance on her card, in the event of 
unplanned and unforeseeable changes in circumstances. 
Mrs B mentioned having other insurance already set up. But she hasnt provided any more 
details about this. And PPI provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different 
circumstances to critical illness cover  which pays out in the event of long term, serious, life 
changing or life limiting conditions. So this information doesnt affect my view on whether PPI 
was mis-sold to her. 
Looking at everything Mrs B told us about her financial situation at the time, it doesnt appear 
to me that Mrs B had any significant other means she couldve used to cover the store card 
monthly repayments if she wasnt working. So I think Mrs B couldve benefitted from having 
the policy. Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if there 
wouldve been any reason why Mrs B wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the 
main policy benefits. So, I dont think that knowing more about policy exclusions and 
limitations that didnt affect her wouldve put Mrs B off taking the policy out.  
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs B to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Mrs B had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful given the benefits it offered in her particular 
circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for 
Mrs B when she signed up to have it  so thats not a reason for me to uphold her complaint. 
And she took out PPI when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the cover. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Mrs B told us, including what 
shes said in response to the adjudicators view. But what shes said doesnt affect what 
I think about her complaint. PPI was usually available as an optional extra and the fact Mrs B 
may have chosen not to protect other cards shed taken out isnt a reason for me to uphold 
this complaint. I've looked at the particular circumstances of this sale, and for the reasons 
I've explained, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold it. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs B off taking out 
this policy, given her situation at the time. And even if AXA didnt give Mrs B all the 
information it shouldve done when it sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs B is worse off 
as a result of anything that AXA did wrong. 
So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman