DRN-2494993
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim 
against their motor insurance policy.
Mr B is a named driver on Mrs Bs policy. Mr B has taken the lead in dealing with this 
complaint. So, for ease, where I refer to his comments below those should be read as being 
on behalf of both himself and Mrs B.  
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs B made a claim on her policy and, while UKIs garage was repairing her 
car, it loaned her a courtesy car, which Mr B signed for. When the garage came to take the 
courtesy car back, in June 2018, it noted some minor damage to the car which hadn't been 
there before. It offered Mr B the option of paying it £300 for the damage but Mr B objected to 
that.
Some months later, in February 2019, the garage made a claim against Mrs Bs policy for 
the damage to the courtesy car. UKI wrote to Mrs B to tell her about the claim but said the 
incident had occurred on the day in February 2019 that it wrote to her, rather than in 
June 2018 when she had the car. The next day UKI sent her a letter saying that she had 
asked it to extend the cover on her policy to include cover for another car, giving the 
registration of the courtesy car. Mr B wrote to UKI pointing out that Mrs B had neither had an 
accident in February 2019 nor asked UKI to extend her cover to another car.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with UKIs handling of the matter. They brought their complaints 
to us. Weve dealt with those under two separate reference numbers. One of our  
investigators looked into the complaints. Under this reference, our investigator thought UKI 
had settled the claim fairly. But she thought that some of its communication could have been 
clearer; so she said UKI should pay Mr and Mrs B £75 compensation for the impact of that.
Mr B didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as 
our investigator recommended.
As Ive said above weve dealt with Mr and Mrs Bs complaints under two separate reference 
numbers. I've issued a separate decision concerning the points of complaint raised under 
the other reference number. So, in this decision I don't intend to make any findings on 
matters I've dealt with under that reference number.
Mrs Bs policy says that when she has a courtesy car the insurance cover for that car is 
provided by her own policy. Also, when Mr B signed to accept the courtesy car, the form he 
signed said Mrs B would be responsible for any damage to the car it didn't already have. The 
form added that the courtesy car was provided on the understanding that Mrs Bs insurance 
cover was transferred to it. 
So in signing for the courtesy car, Mr B accepted that if the car was damaged while in his 
and Mrs Bs control then Mrs B would be responsible for the costs of putting that right. 
Alternatively, that the garage could claim against Mrs Bs policy for the costs of repairing any 
damage.
When the garage came to collect the courtesy car, it noted some damage which hadn't been 
there before. In other words damage that had been caused while the courtesy car was in 
Mr and Mrs Bs control. Mr B noted that the damage was there, although he said he didn't 
know how it had happened. And he wrote on the courtesy car form that the damage was 
minute. I understand that Mr and Mrs B have no idea how that damage happened, but as it 
happened while the car was in their control they became responsible for the cost of repairing 
it even if they didn't cause it. And if they didn't want to pay those costs themselves then the 
garage could claim against Mrs Bs policy.
Mr B said the garage told him if he paid it £300 that would be an end to the matter. But Mr B 
wasn't happy to pay that. So, in February 2019, the garage made a claim against Mrs Bs 
policy to cover the costs of repairs to the courtesy car. And, as Mr and Mrs B had decided 
not to pay for the repairs themselves, that was something the garage was entitled to do.
When registering the claim, although the garage told UKI the incident had happened in 
June 2018, UKI recorded it as the date the garage made the claim, which was 
6 February 2019. But, at that time, UKI was clearly aware that the actual date of the incident 
was 18 June 2018.
It seems likely that UKI recorded the incident date as being February 2019 (rather than 
June 2018) because, in order to apply the claim to Mrs Bs policy, it needed first to add the 
courtesy car to it. And, from the notes on UKIs file, it seems it couldn't backdate the cover 
for the courtesy car to June 2018; so instead UKI added the courtesy car to the cover in 
February 2019. And that also prevented it from backdating the date of the incident on its 
system to June 2018. So instead it recorded the date of incident and the date the courtesy 
car was added to the policy as February 2019, instead of the actual date in June 2018.
And because of that it seems UKIs computer system then automatically sent Mrs B a letter 
telling her shed asked UKI to extend the cover on her policy to include the courtesy car in 
February 2019. UKI also sent Mrs B a letter saying shed been involved in a motoring 
incident on 6 February 2019. Plainly Mrs B knew that wasn't the case. So I can understand 
why, initially at least, she and Mr B were suspicious that the garage (or someone else) was 
trying to make a fraudulent claim against her policy. But I'm satisfied that's not the case.
I should say that it's not my role to decide if a fraud has been committed, as ultimately thats 
a matter for law enforcement agencies or the courts. But, as I understand it, fraud is a 
deliberate act in order to gain or profit from some form of deliberate untruth, deception or 
abuse of power. But thats not the case here. UKI had nothing to gain by recording an 
inaccurate date of incident. It only did that to allow it to process the claim on its system. But it 
knew what the correct incident date was. And, as Ive said above, the garage was entitled to 
make a claim against Mrs Bs policy for the cost of repairs for damage to its car. So I'm 
satisfied the claim was genuine and UKI was under an obligation to process that claim.
Further, although UKI initially recorded the claim with an incorrect date, it was aware of what 
the correct date was. And it would be liable to pay a claim arising from the incident on that correct date in June 2018. So while it certainly wasn't helpful that UKI initially recorded the 
incident date in the manner that it did, that didn't make the claim itself in anyway fictitious or 
fabricated. The garages car was damaged while in Mr and Mrs Bs control. And the garage 
was entitled to claim for that against Mrs Bs policy. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
settle the claim.
That said, as I've indicated above, the manner in which UKI told Mr and Mrs B about the 
claim was anything but ideal. Mrs B hadn't asked for her policy cover to extend to another 
car in February 2019, so the letter saying she had wasnt accurate. And I think UKI should 
either have taken steps to prevent that letter from being sent or, if its computer sent that 
letter automatically, to have sent another letter straightaway explaining what had happened 
and why. And it could have used that opportunity to explain the discrepancy with the incident 
date. Ive noted that UKI did try to ring Mrs B. But it wasn't successful. And, having received 
UKIs inaccurate letters, I can understand why those could have raised concerns that 
something untoward was happening, when that wasn't the case. And that clearly caused 
Mr and Mrs B confusion and consternation. 
I noted UKI explained what had happened and apologised for any confusion when it 
responded to Mr Bs complaint in May 2019. But, as I've said above, I think it could have 
taken action to prevent or minimise that confusion in the first place. Further, I've seen that 
Mr B followed up UKIs reply to his complaint seeking further clarification about the accuracy 
of its letters, which UKI didn't provide. And while I was pleased to see it apologised for the 
confusion it created, its clear that confusion has caused Mr and Mrs B some distress and 
inconvenience. And in those circumstances I don't think UKIs apology goes far enough. So, 
to put things right, I think its fair and reasonable that it pays Mr and Mrs B £75 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr and Mrs B £75 compensation to address their distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman