DRN-2238674
The complaint
Mr C and the estate of Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as C&G) 
mis-sold Mr and Mrs C a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G) in 1987. Around 
the same time, they took out a monthly premium PPI policy. Lloyds is responsible for dealing 
with the complaint, so even though the mortgage was originally with C&G, Ill refer to the 
business as Lloyds in this decision to keep things simple.
The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Cs joint names. The PPI policy covered Mr C. If hed 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
covered Mr and Mrs Cs monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C and the estate of Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide copies of all the paperwork Mr and Mrs C signed 
when they took out the mortgage. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given 
that the mortgage account was closed more than ten years ago. And I can't fairly rely 
purely on what Mr C might be able to remember about the sale, given that it took place 
more than 30 years ago.
In order to uphold the complaint, I'd need to conclude that it's more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs C werent given a clear choice about whether to take the PPI, or that it was 
added to their mortgage account without their consent. But I cant safely reach this 
conclusion, based on the limited information I have.
The mortgage was a serious long-term financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Cs home 
would have been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided 
a dependable means of ensuring that their monthly repayments were protected even if 
Mr C was off sick, or if he lost his job. So, I can see why they might have felt PPI was 
useful cover.
Its completely understandable that Mr C might have forgotten some of the details from 
the sale, so many years later. But on balance, I think its most likely that he and Mrs C 
decided to protect their home by taking out PPI, and that it was added to the mortgage 
at their request.
Lloyds says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. This means it had a 
responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Mr Cs told us that hed only have been entitled to statuory sick pay from his employer at 
the time. And hes told us Mrs C wasnt earning. So I think the policy could have 
provided a useful benefit if Mr C had been of sick, or if hed lost his job. Whats more, it 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr C received from his employer. So 
Mr and Mrs C could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive borne in mind that Mr C has mentioned that he and Mrs C could have relied on their 
parents to help them financially if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant 
be sure that their parents would have been in a position to help if the need had arisen. 
Mr C has also mentioned that he and Mrs C had significant equity in their property, and 
could have bought a smaller house locally. But I think its unlikely, on balance, that 
theyd have preferred to sell their house and down-size, than to pay a relatively modest 
monthly premium to ensure that their monthly mortgage payments would be protected if 
Mr C was unable to work.
Mr C has told us that he and Mrs C had some savings when they took the mortgage out. 
But unsurprisingly after so long, hes not sure how much. However, theyd chosen to 
keep hold of those savings, rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the 
PPI would have enabled them to continue to keep their savings, or to spend them on 
other things if Mr C had been off sick, or if hed lost his job. So I dont think the fact that 
Mr and Mrs C had some savings meant that the PPI was unsuitable.
It may be that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But it 
was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs C couldnt 
afford it. So even if Lloyds had given them clearer information about the cost, I think its 
more likely than not that theyd still have bought it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from what hes told 
us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr C would have been affected by 
any of these. So I dont think better information about them would have put Mr and 
Mrs C off taking the policy out.
Ive taken account of all Mr Cs comments, including what hes said about having received 
refunds for PPI that he took out on other products. Hes commented that since his 
circumstances were the same, the PPI payments he made in this case should be refunded 
too. But we reach our decisions in each case independently. And for the reasons Ive set out, 
based on the available evidence, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold in this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. I can understand how frustrating it is that Im having to reach 
my decision without seeing all the documents that were completed when the mortgage was 
taken out. And I realise that hell be dissatisfied that Im having to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened, rather than being able to be fully certain. But as Ive explained 
above, where the evidence is incomplete or inconsistent, that is what I have to do. And for 
the reasons Ive set out, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman