DRN-4329816
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with Nationwide Building Societys response to a breach of contract claim 
shes made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out the background to this complaint and how 
I thought it best resolved. Ive reproduced my provisional conclusions here, which form part 
of this decision.
Miss L bought a used car from B, a third party trader, paying in part using her Nationwide 
credit card. At the time of purchase, the car was a little over nine years old and had covered 
around 46,000 miles. A few months later, after Miss L had done another 2,000 miles she 
began to experience problems with the car. It was suffering intermittent engine speed when 
in low gear. She took the car to a local dealership Y, who carried out a service and fault 
investigation, diagnosing a possible fault with the throttle body. A replacement part was 
recommended but not at that stage fitted, as it needed to be ordered.
A month later the car displayed a warning light and Miss L noticed a loud metallic noise from 
the engine. A mechanic told her this sounded like a loose timing chain and she contacted B 
about the problem. Miss L says B told her she would need to pay for the car to be 
transported to it and that it would charge around £1,500 to change the timing chain. Miss L 
took the car to a local garage J, who confirmed the timing chain diagnosis and replaced it 
at a cost of £950. However, the noise persisted the following day and J said a new engine 
would be required. This was supported by the conclusions of an RAC inspector who tested 
the car.
The car was recovered to B, who undertook its own inspection. It said the noise and damage 
was due to incorrect fitting of the timing chain, and that it was therefore not responsible for 
the problem. Although Miss L pointed out that the problem with the timing chain occurred 
before she took the car to J, B maintained its stance. The car has been off the road since.
Miss L made a section 75 claim to Nationwide, saying that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality as required by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). In particular, she noted that 
the manufacturer had issued a recall in certain territories (although not in the UK) over the 
timing chain, and that the maintenance schedule indicated the chain should be replaced at 
180,000 miles. Miss L felt this pointed to a lack of durability.
Nationwide didnt uphold Miss Ls claim. It said it couldnt be sure whether the problem with 
the engine was caused by the work J had carried out. In order to proceed with the claim, 
Nationwide told Miss L she would need to get an independent report to specify the problem, 
its likely cause and when that would have arisen. It also suggested that Miss L could ask the 
Motor Ombudsman to investigate, as B was registered with that service.
Miss L complained to Nationwide about its response to her claim. She referenced the body 
of evidence shed already submitted. But Nationwide wasnt willing to change its position and 
so Miss L contacted us.
Our investigator noted that the fact there was a fault with the car didnt necessarily mean it 
was defective when B supplied it to Miss L, which was relevant to the CRA requirement. He 
didnt think the available evidence was sufficient to determine whether the fault was present 
at the point of supply, and that it wasnt a matter of regular wear and tear given the age of 
the vehicle. He didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Miss L didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review.
My provisional findings
Miss Ls claim against Nationwide is founded in section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 
which applies here because she used her credit card towards the car purchase. One effect 
of section 75 is that, where an individual buys goods from a supplier using credit provided 
under pre-existing arrangements between the lender and the supplier, that individual can 
bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way 
they could against the supplier. The supplier here was B; Nationwide was the lender.
The CRA implies certain terms into consumer contracts for goods, digital content and 
services. One of those implied terms is that goods will be of satisfactory quality. Whether 
goods are of satisfactory quality is determined by reference to whether they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking account of matters such as 
price and description, and includes (among other things) freedom from minor defects and 
durability.
Miss Ls claim is that the car B supplied to her failed to meet this requirement and that this 
amounted to a breach of the term implied into the contract. That she can bring that claim 
against Nationwide isnt in dispute between the parties.
Having the right to bring a claim is not the same as saying that claim will be successful. The 
respondent is usually entitled to defend a claim brought against it. The question for me to 
address is whether, in light of the available evidence, Nationwide is treating Miss L unfairly in 
the way it has responded to her claim.
The claim doesnt, as far as Im aware, include the initial fault identified with the throttle body. 
Although that was the original problem Miss L identified, it wasnt the reason she took the car 
in to B. For the sake of completeness, I note that the throttle body is a part that can become 
clogged over time which impairs its effectiveness. Its possible this problem was down to the 
age and prior use of the vehicle and it could well fall into the category of ordinary wear and 
tear rather than being indicative of any underlying defect. I dont discount the possibility that 
the problem could be connected to the other problem Miss L experienced with the timing 
chain, but I dont consider it fundamental to the outcome of this complaint.
According to Ys records, when Miss L took her car to Y for investigation of this problem, it 
undertook some additional activity. First, it carried out a service on the vehicle, including 
replacing the existing engine oil and filter. Y also checked for any outstanding recalls (there 
were none). Miss Ls evidence is that within a month and a few hundred miles of this service, 
the engine warning light illuminated and the noise  identified as a loose timing chain  
became apparent. It seems possible the timing chain issue could have been a latent defect 
that lay undiscovered until after the oil was changed.
The warning light and noise appeared before Miss L took her car to J to have the timing 
chain and tensioner replaced. It was also within six months of the date B supplied the car to 
Miss L. That there was a fault with the timing chain is clear; this was a view taken by Miss 
Ls mechanic and by J. Neither B nor Nationwide has offered evidence to suggest the timing chain was at the correct tension or that the noise was due to any other intervening cause 
since Miss L took ownership.
Given the manufacturers guidance that the timing chain doesnt generally require 
replacement at 48,000 miles, this might suggest various possibilities - possibly that the part 
was defective, or that it points towards a lack of maintenance to ensure the chain was 
suitably tensioned. There are other potential explanations, but the case Miss L has put 
forward is in my view enough to suggest this was not a matter of ordinary wear and tear.
The presumption under the CRA is that where a lack of conformity to contract exists at any 
time within six months of delivery to the consumer, the goods are deemed not to have 
conformed at the point of supply. This is a rebuttable presumption, but as Ive already noted, 
the evidence Nationwide has referenced doesnt establish that the fault didnt exist when 
Miss L took delivery of the car. Nor do I find it persuasive that the fault only arose after the 
work J carried out.
In light of the clear way in which the CRA places this obligation on the trader rather than the 
consumer, I find it difficult to understand why B didnt investigate when Miss L first raised the 
problem, or why Nationwide subsequently insisted that Miss L obtain an independent report 
into the fault. Given the timescale at play in this case, it was incumbent on Nationwide to 
establish that the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied, not the other way round. It 
follows that I dont find that Nationwide dealt with Miss Ls claim correctly when she made it.
There has been work carried out to the car since delivery. It is possible that work has made it 
more difficult to establish the root cause of the problems with the car, though I understand all 
parts removed from the vehicle were made available for inspection. I dont think Miss L 
should be criticised for attempting to get the problems investigated and repaired. She 
attempted to get B to do so first, but went elsewhere because of what she understood B 
would charge for this. In doing so, Im satisfied she was taking what I consider reasonable 
steps to mitigate the impact of being without the use of the car.
Having considered the arguments put forward by both parties, Im not currently minded to 
conclude that Nationwide has treated Miss L fairly in taking the position it has. She provided 
a significant amount of evidence in relation to her claim and the actions she took. Nationwide 
doesnt appear to have placed much weight on that evidence when considering its potential 
liability under section 75. Instead, it said she needed to provide more evidence, even though
that was more properly its responsibility if it was to defend her claim. Based on what Ive 
seen, Miss Ls evidence is sufficiently conclusive that Nationwide should have either 
accepted her claim, or made rather more effort to obtain evidence to support why it wasnt 
accepting it. Because it did not, I propose to uphold the complaint.
It's possible even at this stage that the car could be examined to see if it is possible to 
establish the root cause of the timing chain fault and whether it was present at point of 
supply. But Im not inclined to say that this represents an appropriate way to resolve Miss Ls 
complaint. She has changed her position significantly in the two years since the problems 
arose with the car. Shes bought another vehicle, which is entirely understandable given that 
the original car has been unusable.
With this in mind, I intend to require Nationwide to take the following steps:
1. recover the car from Miss L at no cost to her, with Miss L relinquishing all ownership 
rights to the vehicle
2. pay Miss L £5,495 representing the purchase price of the car3. pay Miss L £943.88 to cover the cost of the replacement timing chain and associated 
work undertaken by J
4. pay interest on the sums in 2. and 3. at a rate of 8% simple annually from 22 July 2022 
(being the date on which I consider it reasonable that Nationwide should have taken 
different action in response to Miss Ls claim) until the date it pays this settlement. If 
Nationwide deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Miss L with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate, should she ask for one
5. pay Miss L £400 in recognition of the additional costs, time and trouble to which shes 
been put in dealing with matters
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my intended conclusions.
Response to my provisional decision
Miss L accepted my findings and proposed resolution. But Nationwide didnt agree. It said:
Weve carefully considered your comments and are unable to accept the view you have 
reached for the following reasons:
There have been a several problems identified with the vehicle Miss L purchased. Initially, 
there was said to be a fault with the throttle body, although we gather this wasnt 
replaced. Next, it was said to sound like a loose timing chain. This was subsequently 
changed by a third-party garage J, however it was later explained the vehicle would 
need a new engine.
When the car was returned to B, it was explained that the continued problems the car 
experienced were in fact due to the incorrect fitting of the timing chain by J.
Miss L had a third-party inspect and carry out repair work to the vehicle rather than B that 
supplied it, meaning B hadnt their right to repair before Js involvement.
The vehicle continued to have issues after being inspected by J, which means we cant 
draw a direct line that B is in breach of contract, that Nationwide are jointly liable with for 
any faults with the car.
Miss L herself, explained J hadnt done a good job, and so should Nationwide have 
accepted the claim, it is likely it would be covering for mistakes made by J.
Without a report to clarify what the issues were before it was taken to J, it hasnt been 
established that B is in breach of contract that would make Nationwide jointly liable under 
Section 75.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the chain of events. I made particular note of the fact that 
the problems Miss L experienced had already begun before she took the car to J. A local 
mechanic had diagnosed the likely cause as a loose timing chain. I further noted that before 
she went to J, Miss L had first approached B, who told her that she would need to pay for the 
car to be transported to it and for any repair that was needed. And when it undertook the 
repair, J had warned Miss L that replacing the chain might not be enough to address damage already done.
It's disappointing that Nationwide hasnt mentioned these key points in its response. Had it 
done so, Nationwide might have had cause to reconsider the arguments it has sought to 
make (which are effectively reiterations of its previous stance). Given the chain of events I 
cant accept the contention either that the problems with the car are down to work carried out 
by J, or that B wasnt given the opportunity to investigate and put things right prior to Js 
involvement. Neither argument is supported by the facts of the case, which Miss L carefully 
documented.
While a report is often useful in establishing the existence and underlying cause of a fault, 
its not the only means of establishing whether theres been a breach of contract. The 
background circumstances and other evidence are also relevant considerations. Further, as I 
said in my provisional decision, the car has been available for inspection. If Nationwide 
considered it necessary to determine the claim outcome, it had ample time to arrange for 
such a report.
I should further clarify the point Nationwide has sought to make about Bs right to repair. 
The right to repair is a breach of contract remedy available to a consumer under section 23 
of the CRA, rather than a right afforded to a trader whose goods dont conform to contract. 
S23(2) says:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer, and
(b) bear any necessary costs incurred in doing so (including in particular the cost of 
any labour, materials or postage).
When Miss L approached B to report the problem with her car, she was doing so because 
she didnt think it was of satisfactory quality. An independent mechanic had already 
suggested a problem with the timing chain as a likely cause. Miss L contacted B within six 
months of taking delivery. So it was incumbent on B to establish that the fault the mechanic 
had identified was not present or inherent when it supplied the car.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that B undertook to inspect the car when Miss L contacted it, in 
order to provide an effective rebuttal of the CRA presumption that faults arising within six 
months are deemed to be present at the point of supply. If B instead decided to tell Miss L 
that she would need to incur costs in order for it to perform this obligation, then that can 
hardly be said to be Miss L failing to give B the opportunity to rectify the fault. And Bs 
response to Miss L didnt indicate that it would bear the costs of transportation or of any 
repair. As Ive previously said, Im satisfied that in light of Bs stated position, Miss L acted 
reasonably in taking the car to J for further diagnosis and attempted repair.
Taking all of this into account, I dont find Nationwides further submissions sufficiently 
persuasive that I should depart from the findings or remedy I proposed in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding Miss Ls complaint. To settle it, I direct Nationwide 
Building Society to take the following steps, within 28 days of receiving Miss Ls acceptance:
1. recover the car from Miss L at no cost to her, with Miss L relinquishing all ownership 
rights to the vehicle2. pay Miss L £5,495 representing the purchase price of the car
3. pay Miss L £943.88 to cover the cost of the replacement timing chain and associated 
work undertaken by J
4. pay interest on the sums in 2. and 3. at a rate of 8% simple annually from 22 July 2022 
(being the date on which I consider it reasonable that Nationwide should have taken 
different action in response to Miss Ls claim) until the date it pays this settlement. If 
Nationwide deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Miss L with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate, should she ask for one
5. pay Miss L £400 in recognition of the additional costs, time and trouble to which shes 
been put in dealing with matters
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman