DRN-3715696
The complaint
Mrs K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Around September 2021, Mrs K met a man on an online dating website. They were 
communicating for a number of weeks, first through the dating website and then via an 
instant messaging service, and their relationship developed to the point where Mrs K felt 
they were in a romantic relationship. Unfortunately, we now know the man was a scammer.
The scammer then told Mrs K he had sent her a box containing money and some jewellery 
that he wanted her to have. And Mrs K received an email claiming to be from a delivery 
company, saying they had the box but needed her to pay for it to be released. Mrs K made a 
payment to the bank details the delivery company gave her, but the delivery company then 
asked for a number of further payments. The scammer told Mrs K hed pay her back and that 
the jewellery in the box was very important to him, so she made a number of further 
payments to the bank details she was given. Ive set out the payments Mrs K made in the 
table below:
Date Amount
12 October 2021 £870
18 October 2021 £1,000
19 October 2021 £1,000
20 October 2021 £1,000
21 October 2021 £900
26 October 2021 £1,000
27 October 2021 £1,000
28 October 2021 £1,000
29 October 2021 £900
1 November 2021 £1,000
1 November 2021 £460
8 November 2021 £500
8 November 2021 £1,000
10 November 2021 £1,000
10 November 2021 £1,000
12 November 2021 £1,000
The scam was uncovered when the scammer asked Mrs K to make further payments. And 
as it was the scammer asking for the payments and not the delivery company, Mrs K 
became suspicious. She then spoke with the police and NatWest and asked that the money 
she had lost be refunded.
NatWest investigated but said it had acted on Mrs Ks genuine instructions to make the 
payments. And it said it didnt think she had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment 
requests were genuine and hadnt carried out sufficient due diligence before making them. 
So it didnt agree to refund the money Mrs K had lost. Mrs K wasnt satisfied with NatWests 
response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Mrs K had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments. But they also thought NatWest had failed to 
provide effective warnings for some of the payments Mrs K had made, when it should have. 
So they recommended NatWest refund 50% of the money Mrs K had lost, from the fifth 
payment she made as part of the scam onwards. Mrs K didnt agree with our investigator, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mrs K fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mrs K have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Mrs K met the scammer through a dating website, so wasnt contacted unexpectedly. And 
they were communicating frequently for a number of weeks before she was asked to send 
any money, so I think its reasonable that Mrs K will have felt she knew the scammer and 
built up a level of trust in him by that point. But there were also a number of things which I 
think should have caused Mrs K concern about what was happening.
Mrs K had exchanged a number of text messages with the scammer. But shes said she 
asked to phone or video call with him a number of times and he either said he couldnt do 
this as there was no connection where he was or he would agree to make calls but would then always have to postpone them when the time came. And I think never being able to see 
or speak to the scammer should have caused Mrs K some concern.
The scammer told Mrs K he had sent her a box containing money and jewellery as he 
needed her to keep it safe for him. But I think sending money and valuables in this way is 
quite an unusual thing to do, particularly to a person youve never met in person. And, from 
reading the messages Mrs K has sent us copies of, it doesnt look like the scammer ever 
gave a clear explanation of where the money had come from, why he couldnt keep it himself 
or what it needed to be kept safe from.
The email Mrs K has sent us claiming to be from the delivery company was also poorly 
written, with a number of spelling mistakes and grammatical errors. And Mrs K was asked to 
send the money to the bank details of an individual, rather than to a business account for the 
delivery company. And I think both of these things should have caused her concern about 
whether she was dealing with a legitimate company.
I appreciate that this was a cruel and sophisticated scam that played on the trust the 
scammer had built up with Mrs K over a period of time. But I think there were a number of 
things about the circumstances of the scam that should have caused Mrs K significant 
concern. And, as she doesnt appear to have significantly questioned or received clear 
explanations to address these concerns, I dont think she had a reasonable basis for belief 
when she made any of the payments.
Did NatWest meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mrs K had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if NatWest 
didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective 
warnings.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
The first few payments Mrs K made as a result of this scam werent for particularly large 
amounts and didnt leave the balance of her account at a particularly unusual level. So I 
dont think they will have looked suspicious or out of character for her, and I wouldnt have 
expected NatWest to identify a scam risk as a result of them or provide effective warnings for 
them.
But by the time Mrs K tried to make the fifth payment, she had then made or attempted to 
make five payments in just over a week  all for around £1,000, all to a new payee she 
hadnt sent money to previously and the last four on four consecutive days. So I think when 
she tried to make this fifth payment, NatWest should have identified a suspicious pattern in 
the payments she was making and so identified a scam risk. I therefore think it should have 
provided effective warnings for the fifth payment Mrs K made, and all the later payments.
NatWest has sent us a copy of the warning it says Mrs K was shown before she made the 
payments. But this warning was mostly focused on criminals intercepting emails or 
pretending to be solicitors, builders or other tradespeople. It didnt mention scammers 
pretending to be in romantic relationships with victims, give examples of what this might look 
or feel like or give examples of action customers could take to try to avoid falling victim to this type of scam. So I dont think the warning NatWest gave was specific or impactful 
enough to be effective in Mrs Ks circumstances.
So I dont think NatWest has met its obligations under the CRM code to provide effective 
warnings. And so I think it should refund 50% of the money Mrs K lost, from the fifth payment 
onwards  for a total of £5,380.
Mrs K has said that her circumstances mean she should be considered as vulnerable and 
so, under the CRM code, she should be refunded all the money she lost  regardless of 
whether she had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. And Ive 
considered the circumstances she has explained to us. But while I sympathise with the 
position Mrs K has found herself in and I dont doubt that what she has been through has 
been extremely difficult for her, I dont think the circumstances she has described mean she 
was less able to protect herself from this kind of scam at the time. And so I dont think 
NatWest should be required to refund all the money she lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Refund Mrs K 50% of the money she lost as a result of this scam, from the fifth 
payment onwards  for a total of £5,380.
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date it initially rejected her claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman