DRN-2532480
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr F complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs F and Mr F arranged an MPPI policy with Bradford & Bingley during a phone call. The 
policy covered a mortgage that Mrs F and Mr F took out around the same time with a 
different lender. The policy covered both of them against unemployment. 
Mrs F and Mr F believe Bradford & Bingley mis-sold the policy. They say they felt they had to 
take out the MPPI policy or their mortgage application would not be progressed. They add 
that the costs and benefits were not discussed with them and they had savings, so the policy 
was not suitable for them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. As Mrs F and Mr F do not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs F and Mr Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs F and Mr Fs complaint for the following reasons:
Ive looked at what Mrs F and Mr F have said about how the policy was sold  including 
that they felt they had to take out the policy or their mortgage application wouldnt be 
progressed. But I think, after considering the documentation provided, I am persuaded 
that they were given an option to have MPPI and were aware that they had a choice. In 
particular I can see a note written by the representative from Bradford & Bingley. They 
have written wanted to look at unemployment protection but did not want a/s cover as 
felt had sufficient via employer. This persuades me that a conversation was mostly likely 
had about the most suitable cover for Mrs F and Mr F. In addition, I can see that the 
mortgage was provided by a separate lender, so on balance, I think Mrs F and Mr F 
would have known they had a choice to have the cover.
I think Bradford & Bingley gave advice to Mrs F and Mr F when it sold the MPPI policy to 
them, so it needed to ensure the policy was suitable and I think it was based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.
Mrs F and Mr F say they could have relied upon savings of £20,000 or an investment if 
either of them had been made unemployed. But I think the cover would have been useful 
to them for any extended period. I could see that they would have found the cover useful 
in a time of need. I could also not find any other reason that would make the policy 
unsuitable for them such as a restrictive or limiting term.
Bradford & Bingley has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI 
that Mrs F and Mr F took out but Im not sure from the sales documentation that I have 
seen that they were disclosed clearly at the time of sale. That said, even if they were, I 
dont think it would have affected their decision to take the policy for the reasons I have 
already given.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs F and Mr F, but I do not uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I do not uphold Mrs F and Mr Fs complaint and so                    
Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman