DRN-4102008
The complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream made an error when it didnt 
remove adverse information from his credit file when it should have.
What happened
The adjudicator set out a very detailed background to this complaint, those facts arent in 
dispute by either party and so I dont intend to repeat them here. The key facts of the case to 
highlight are that Lending Stream accepts it lent loans to Mr S when it shouldnt have, and it 
offered to put things right.
Lending Streams offer to put things right included removing adverse information about the 
upheld loans from Mr S credit file. Lending Stream accepts it made an error and has offered 
£100 to Mr S by way of compensation.
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint, she thought Lending Streams error caused 
Mr S to suffer distress and inconvenience and recommended that Lending Stream pays Mr S 
a total of £200 in compensation. Lending Stream agreed but Mr S didnt
Mr S said Lending Stream had the opportunity to put things right sooner and it has cost him 
a lot of time pursuing Lending Stream. He suggests £1,000 would be fair compensation in 
the circumstances.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Lending Stream made an error, the question here is what would be 
the fair and reasonable way to make things right for Mr S in the circumstances.
Mr S initially said hed been declined a mortgage and has had to pay higher interest rates 
due to the adverse information showing on his credit file. Looking at all the information, I 
agree with the adjudicator that the evidence doesnt show that the presence of the adverse 
information is the only reason Mr S mortgage application was declined. I also havent seen 
any evidence that shows Mr S paying higher interest rates solely because of Lending 
Streams error.
I understand Mr S has spent some time making his complaint and trying to get Lending 
Stream to see its error and correct it. Im also mindful that when Mr S initially raised the issue 
with Lending Stream in July 2021, Lending Stream responded to him within two days asking 
him for more information. The evidence shows Mr S didnt respond to Lending Stream or 
raise the issue again until June 2022, nearly a year after. I think given the significance of the 
issue here to Mr S, it would have been reasonable to expect him to respond to Lending 
Stream sooner than he did.
When Mr S raised the issue again with Lending Stream in June 2022, this time Mr S 
provided some proof of the adverse information on his credit file, Lending Stream didnt act 
to correct it until March 2023, and it was only when Mr S brought his complaint to this service 
that Lending Stream offered some compensation.
I understand Mr S point on the time hes spent on the issue, and I have no doubt such 
adverse information caused him a degree of distress and inconvenience. On the other hand, 
Id have expected him to follow up with Lending Stream sooner than he did after he raised 
the issue in July 2021.
I think itll also have been reasonable for Lending Stream to have reacted sooner than it did 
after Mr S provided evidence of the adverse information on his credit file.
While I appreciate Mr S wants significantly more, the evidence doesnt lead me to conclude 
that £1,000 would be appropriate in the circumstances. There is a degree of inconvenience 
attached to making a complaint and I think £200 is fair reflecting the fact Lending Stream 
should have acted sooner.
Putting things right
Lending Stream should pay Mr S a total of £200 for the distress and inconvenience its 
mistake caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman