DRN-3492736
The complaint
Ms C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) has mis-sold her travel insurance 
policy. Ms C is also unhappy that she couldnt reach the Sainsburys medical assistance 
helpline when she needed it.
Ms C is being represented by her mother, Mrs C, on this complaint. 
Mrs C has raised a number of further complaint points following this services involvement. I 
wont be responding to those. I will only respond to the two points she raised in her 
complaint to Sainsburys and to which it responded. 
What happened
Ms C took out a single trip European travel insurance policy on 9 September 2020. The 
policy was taken out to cover a trip shed booked from 13 September 2020 to 21 September 
2020. 
On 19 September 2020, Ms C had an accident and suffered an injury. Mrs C tried calling 
Sainsburys to request assistance on their helpline. It was a weekend and she wasnt able to 
get through to anyone. She eventually tried calling the number for the USA and got through. 
She was informed that Ms C had no cover in place as the UK government had advised 
against all but essential travel from 7 September 2020. 
On the following day, Mrs C spoke to the medical assistance team and it informed her that 
Ms Cs travel insurance policy was invalid. Unhappy with this, Mrs C made a complaint to 
Sainsburys. It responded on 20 January 2021 and said Ms C bought the policy online and 
therefore the responsibility is on the customer to ensure it meets their needs. And, in regards 
to advice against all but essential travel given by the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office from 7 September 2020, it said the responsibility was for the traveller to 
check the guidance and they were permitted to travel as it was changing frequently. 
Sainsburys also said it ensured the policy working included this information. It apologised 
that Mrs C wasnt able to get through to the helpline when they needed assistance as it is a 
24-hour helpline. There were no issues reported at the time. Sainsburys offered to refund 
the premium Ms C had paid as the policy wasnt suitable on the day of travel.
Mrs C brought the complaint to this service as she was unhappy with the response received 
from Sainsburys. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it.  She said 
Ms C bought the policy online and received all of the policy documents. The responsibility 
was on Ms C to ensure the policy met her needs. It was also her responsibility to make sure 
it was safe and permitted to travel by checking the FCDO advice provided by the 
government. She didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong when the policy was 
purchased by Ms C and she didnt think it was mis-sold. 
Mrs C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide therefore is whether I think Sainsburys mis-sold Ms C her 
travel insurance policy. 
Theres no dispute that the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to the country 
Ms C had travelled to from 7 September 2020. And, at the point that Ms C purchased the 
policy on 9 September 2020, the advice was in place and at the time of Ms Cs dates of 
travel (13 September 2020 to 21 September 2020), this advice was still in place. 
Ive considered how the policy was sold to Ms C. I can see that Ms C purchased the policy 
online and completed the relevant questions resulting in a single trip travel insurance policy 
for which she paid a premium. No advice was given to Ms C at the time. In such 
circumstances, we would expect that the seller (Sainsburys in this case) provides enough 
information for the customer to check that the policy is right for them. 
I can see that Sainsburys provided Ms C with a Welcome letter, the full policy terms and 
conditions, the policy certificate, the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the 
Demands and Needs statement. These were all sent to her on 9 September 2020. Along 
with all of the policy documents, the Welcome letter said:
Please find enclosed (1) your Travel Certificate and Schedule and (2) Your Policy 
Wording. Both these documents, together with this letter, form your legal agreement 
with us. You must read these documents together and keep them all for future 
reference. Please make sure you review your details carefully. If anything is incorrect 
or you would like to make changes please let us know as soon as possible. It is
important that your details are accurate; otherwise your insurance cover could be 
invalid.
You can cancel this policy within 14 days of receiving this letter. If you have not made 
a trip or a claim, we will give you a full refund.
The IPID is a summary document of the cover provided. Page 2 of this,under the heading 
Where am I covered? states:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
The terms and conditions of the policy on page 5 under the heading Helpful Advice, it 
states:
Travel Aware
Were working with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) to do all we can to
help British travellers on holiday overseas.
1. Check the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) Travel Advice website
gov.uk/travel aware
2. Get travel insurance, and check your cover fits your needs.
On page 104 of the terms and conditions, under the heading General exclusions applying to 
your policy, it states:
7. Any travel undertaken to an area where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office(FCO) advise against all or all but essential travel or where it is deemed unsafe for 
you to travel.
Based on all of the above information provided, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Ms C. 
The information provided to her following the purchase of the policy is clear and not mis-
leading. As it was an online purchase, the responsibility was on Ms C to ensure that the 
policy met her needs but also to ensure that travel was permitted to the country she travelled 
to. At the time, in September 2020, travel advice was constantly changing, and Covid-19 
was something she would have been aware of for a number of months. Travellers were 
asked to check the FCDO website before they travelled. Taking all of this into account, 
theres no evidence to suggest the policy was mis-sold. 
I acknowledge Mrs Cs comments that Sainsburys should never have allowed Ms C to be 
sold a policy travelling to that specific country. Im afraid I dont agree. Travel to that country 
was not banned completely and essential travel was permitted. There would have been 
customers for which the policy would have still applied. The trip Ms C had booked was non-
essential and therefore the onus was on her to check whether she was allowed to travel. I 
understand that Ms C went through a difficult time due to the accident she suffered but that 
doesnt mean that Sainsburys should now take that responsibility. 
With regard to not being able to reach anyone on the medical assistance helpline, Ive 
considered Mrs Cs comments. I do appreciate that at a time of need and in an emergency, 
the 24-hour helpline ought to have been available so that Mrs C could talk through any 
options for Ms Cs injury. I think Sainsburys could have provided better service in this 
regard. I can see though that it has apologised, and Mrs C did manage to speak to 
someone, albeit two days later. Sainsburys has offered to refund the premium Ms C had 
paid and I think this seems fair.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Sainsburys mis-sold the travel insurance policy to Ms C. Its 
offered to refund the premium Ms C paid as the policy wasnt valid on the date of travel. Its 
up to Ms C to decide now if she would like the refund and she should contact Sainsburys 
direct if she wishes to do so. I dont require Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint against Sainsbury's Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman