DRN-1383673
Complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have unfairly charged interest 
on his credit card and then without good reason closed his Flex Direct, deposit and credit 
card accounts with them. 
Background
Mr G holds a credit card and accounts with Nationwide. He made several complaints to 
Nationwide regarding interest being charged on his credit card and following a breakdown in 
the relationship between Nationwide and Mr G, it gave notice that they were to close all the 
accounts and credit cards he held with them. Mr G felt this was unlawful because Nationwide 
closed his accounts simply because he complained about the charges on his credit card. 
Nationwide say that the charges on his credit card were within the terms and conditions 
following an interest free period and the account closure was due to the breakdown of their 
relationship. Nationwide say they gave Mr G sufficient notice for him to make alternative 
banking arrangements. Mr G was unhappy with Nationwides response and referred the 
matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information provided by both parties but didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said Nationwide had given notice to close the Flex Direct, deposit 
and credit cards in line with the terms and conditions of these accounts. These terms and 
conditions were provided to the service. The investigator says the interest charged to Mr GS 
credit card was correctly applied and Nationwide hadnt acted unlawfully in their actions as 
claimed by Mr G.
Mr G was unhappy with the outcome and asked the matter to be referred to an ombudsman 
for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and I will explain the reason for my 
decision. 
Mr G has said that he felt that Nationwide acted unlawfully closing his accounts because he 
complained about his credit card charges and felt it breached Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) code of conduct, because Nationwide acted unlawfully closing the account without a 
strong enough reason. Mr G felt that this service should press charges against Nationwide 
as a result of them closing his account without good reason. The investigator in his outcome 
letter to Mr G clarified sufficiently well, the differences in the roles and powers  of the FCA 
and this service and I am satisfied he has made that point clear. Our role is to decide 
whether or not Nationwide (and other financial businesses) have acted fairly and reasonably 
in individual cases. In this case I have  considered if Nationwide charged interest to  Mr Gs card appropriately and gave sufficient notice for him to make alternative banking 
arrangements, when asking him to close his accounts.
When looking at the part of the complaint regarding the interest charges to his credit card - 
Mr G had a promotional offer of 12 months interest free borrowing and I have seen evidence 
of this on his credit card statements. I am satisfied that Mr G was aware of this as he 
discussed extending the offer of the interest free period with Nationwide. As Mr G hadnt 
cleared his borrowing on his credit card at the expired free interest term, interest charges 
then became payable in line with the credit card terms and conditions. 
I am satisfied the extra two months free interest given to Mr G was fair and reasonable and 
without any obligation.
The second part of the complaint concerning Nationwides decision to close his account was, 
in Mr Gs view, solely down to him complaining about the interest rate charges. I can 
understand that it would be inconvenient for Mr G to change bank accounts and credit cards 
and a cause of frustration to him but what I have considered is whether or not Nationwide 
have acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of his accounts with them. 
When looking at this, what has become clear is that there have been a number of exchanges 
between Mr G and Nationwide over charges and service issues. As a result Nationwide have 
taken the view that they were unable to provide a service to Mr G that he would be satisfied 
with and this meant, in their opinion, the breakdown of the relationship was irreversible. Mr G 
may well disagree with that view and of course he has every right to, but it is not my role to 
decide what constitutes a breakdown in relationship or give direction to Nationwide on this. 
What is important here is whether Nationwide acted in line with their terms and conditions 
when giving notice to close the accounts and credit cards, all of their current account and 
credit card account terms and conditions say the following:  
Section 78:
You or we can close your account by ending this current account agreement (which is 
separate to any arranged overdraft agreement). If we end this agreement we will give you 
not less than 2 months written notice. You can end this agreement at any time by sending 
us a secure message on the Internet Bank or in any branch and you must repay all the 
amounts you are responsible for under this agreement. 
The terms and conditions also explain under the heading General Information about 
Overdrafts:
28. We offer arranged overdrafts and unarranged overdrafts on most of our current 
accounts. All overdrafts are repayable on demand, but well try to give you advance notice 
before reducing or withdrawing your overdraft limit, or demanding repayment.
This means we can ask you to repay it (or part of it) or reduce the limit, at any time.
Nationwide Credit Card terms and conditions go on to say under Section 9. 
Restricting your account and ending your agreement  state: 
(a) Your agreement has no fixed or minimum duration and you can close your account at 
any time by contacting us on the details in clause 14.We will cancel your card but the terms 
of your agreement will continue to apply until the outstanding balance has been repaid in full. You will not be charged a fee to close your account. (b) We can also close your account at 
any time and will provide you with at least 2 months notice before we do this.
I can see that Mr G is frustrated that his accounts and cards have been closed without, what 
he believes, a valid reason. It isnt the role of this service to decide if and why Nationwide (or 
any other bank) can close customers accounts, in the same way Mr G can decide to close 
his account with them at any time, without reason. 
Nationwide have, in their closure letter to Mr G, given  60 day notice to close his accounts 
with them and I am satisfied that they have acted within their terms and conditions.  For the 
reasons given before I also feel that the charges to Mr Gs credit card are appropriate.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, but it follows, that  I cant ask anymore of 
Nationwide here. 
My Final Decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
14 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman