DRN-3315368
The complaint
Mr P complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to provide finance so he could purchase a timeshare 
product (the product) without checking if he could afford to repay what he owed. And it 
was wrong of BPF to decline claims he made about the product being mis-sold.
Mr P is represented by a firm of solicitors but I will refer (generally) to whats been said on 
his behalf as if Mr P had said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr P acquired the product - which cost over £24,000 - in September 2009. He funded 
the purchase with credit provided by BPF. In 2017 he saw an advertisement about 
potential claims arising out of the sale of timeshare products and he contacted BPF in 
September 2018 to raise a complaint. He said (in summary):-
the product was mis-sold using high pressure sales tactics, the product agreement 
is complex and wasnt explained properly and misrepresentations were made that 
induced him to buy the product and take out the finance;
BPF is liable equally with the product provider (the supplier) for breach of 
contract and misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA);
the supplier arranged the finance and failed to act in his best interests and warn 
him about risks associated with the purchase and comply with its duty of care;
BPF would have paid commission to the supplier which should have been 
disclosed at the point of sale, it wasnt (and it still hasnt been) disclosed and the 
debtor-creditor relationship is unfair under section 140A of the CCA;
BPF failed to carry out proper checks to ensure that he could afford to repay 
the finance.
BPF rejected Mr Ps claims. It said hes out of time - under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) - 
to bring a claim against the supplier so the time to bring any like claim against BPF 
under section 75 has also expired. BPF thought it was also too late for Mr P to bring a 
claim under section 140A and he had failed to refer his complaint to our service in time.
Our investigator wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint. He accepted BPF is jointly 
and severally liable with the supplier for breach of contract and misrepresentation (by the 
supplier) under section 75. He thought the time to bring any like claim against BPF 
expired at the same time as any claim against the supplier - under the LA - and its 
reasonable to take this into account. 
He considered the relevant time limits and concluded that Mr P had six years from the 
date he purchased the product to bring any relevant claim. The investigator 
acknowledged that Mr P may not have known this until after the six years had passed. 
But, he was satisfied that doesnt extend time. And Mr P needed to bring any section 75 
claim no later September 2015 - so he was likely out of time when he complained to BPF 
in 2018.
The investigator also looked at section 140A of the CCA (which allows the courts to make 
an order under section 140B if its determined that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor). He was satisfied that the 
LA also applies to a section 140A claim. He thought Mr P would have needed to bring any 
such claim within six years of the date the relationship with BPF ended  in 2010, when Mr 
P settled the finance. And, as Mr P didnt complain to BPF until 2018, this claim is 
probably time barred as well.
The investigator accepted its ultimately a matter for the courts to decide if time has 
expired under the LA. But, he was satisfied that Mr P was probably out of time to bring 
these claims, its reasonable to take this into account and it wasnt wrong of BPF to 
decline the claims.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter. His 
representatives say the investigator is wrong about when limitation starts to run. They 
think this would not have commenced until Mr P had knowledge of the 
misrepresentation and/or it is extended under section 32 of the LA.
From the evidence Id seen, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My reasons were 
somewhat different to the investigators so I issued a provisional decision on 6 January 
2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings (and make further submissions if 
they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out below what I decided 
provisionally  and why  and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits 
of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr P brings claims against BPF under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. BPF thinks any 
right he has to do so is probably out of time under the LA. If thats right, I think its 
something BPF could reasonably take into account when it declined Mr Ps claims. I 
should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr P may have to bring 
a claim has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. Im looking here at 
whether I think BPF should reasonably have accepted Mr Ps claims.
Mr Ps representatives have provided detailed submissions and made reference to various 
regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of the 
law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and 
good industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr P that, if I dont 
address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have 
considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this 
decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome.Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
The powers of the Financial Ombudsman Service are set out in the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and in the rules published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
known as the DISP rules. Insofar as its relevant, DISP 2.8.2 says (broadly speaking) we 
can't consider a complaint if it's brought to us more than six months after the date of the 
final response from the business (unless the business consents or exceptional 
circumstances apply).
BPF has objected to this service considering Mr Ps complaint because he brought it to 
us seven months after BPF provided its final response. I can see that BPF issued its 
final response in a letter dated 28 November 2018. In this letter BPF told Mr P that he 
had the right to refer his complaint to our service but he must do so within six months of 
the date of the letter. Im satisfied that Mr P contacted us on 21 February 2019 - which is 
within six months of BPFs final response. And I find this complaint was not referred to 
us outside of the six month time limit.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, in 
certain circumstances. Section 75 requires a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship which 
BPF says was not present here. I havent reached any conclusions about that because 
Im not minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint for other reasons  as Ive explained below.
Mr P claims that misrepresentations were made and I think sections 2 and 9 of the LA are 
relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums 
recoverable under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six 
years from the date that a cause of action accrues.
I think the date on which the cause of action accrued in this case will be the same as the 
date upon which the misrepresentation alleged under section 75 became actionable  
that is the date the damage is suffered. I consider any relevant damage would have been 
incurred when Mr P bought the product and took out the finance - amongst other things, 
this was when he incurred any liability under the product agreement and paid for the 
benefits which he says were misrepresented. This means Mr P would have needed to 
bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date of the timeshare transaction 
 in 2009.
Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since that date before Mr P contacted 
BPF in 2018. I think the period within which he had to bring an action under section 75 
had probably expired by this point. And I cant reasonably conclude that it was wrong of 
BPF to decline his section 75 claim.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination, but I think this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr P had to bring any relevant claim is six 
years from the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. Evidence supplied by BPF shows that the finance was settled in June 2010. Im aware that Mr P bought another 
timeshare product in 2014, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that this purchase was funded 
by this BPF account.
On the evidence I have at the moment, Im satisfied that the finance BPF provided in 
2009 was repaid in full in June 2010. I think Mr P would have needed to bring any claim 
under section 140A within six years of that date - no later than June 2016. Im satisfied he 
didnt raise this claim with BPF until 2018 and any right he had to bring such a claim had 
probably expired by then. So, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to decline 
Mr Ps section 140 claim.
I realise Mr P may feel its unfair that I have referred here to time limits that he was 
unaware of. Im afraid lack of knowledge of relevant time limits isnt generally accepted as 
grounds for extending limitation. But, I have given some thought as to whether there are 
other grounds to do so.
Section 32 LA
Mr Ps representatives refer to section 32 of the LA which relates to the extension of time 
for starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found - or could with reasonable 
diligence have been discovered. Ive considered this but, for the reasons Ive set out 
below, Im not persuaded that section 32 helps Mr P in these particular circumstances.
As far as I can see, Mr P had some experience of timeshare products  he seems to have 
purchased another similar product in 2007. I think he probably used the product he bought 
with the finance BPF provided in 2009 not long after he got it. And, given the nature of the 
misrepresentations alleged, I think Mr P would probably have realised that he wasnt 
receiving the services he expected and the benefits (he says he was told at the outset 
would be provided) might have been misrepresented then. I cant be certain thats the 
case. But Im minded to find, on balance, its more likely than not Mr P had enough 
information to enable him to bring any relevant claims within the time limits referred to. 
And I dont think its unreasonable to expect him to have done so.
I have considered what Mr Ps representatives have said about commission they think 
would have been paid by BPF to the supplier. They consider Mr P should have been told 
about this at the time - and its wrong that this still hasnt been disclosed. BPF hasnt 
provided details of what, if any, commission was paid. But, as far as Im aware, the levels 
of commission that were normally paid in this sort of situation (at the relevant time) werent 
high enough to mean that BPF should have appreciated not telling Mr P about any 
commission paid risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under section 140A.
I think if any commission was paid (which is not certain) its unlikely to have been more 
than 10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. 
And Im not persuaded that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of any 
commission paid in these circumstances.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the supplier was acting as agent to Mr P or owed him a 
fiduciary duty in this situation. I dont think the suppliers role was to make an impartial or 
dis- interested recommendation. And Im not persuaded it was required to disclose any 
commission (that may have been paid by BPF) to Mr P either.
It follows I dont think section 32 helps Mr P. But, even if Im wrong about that, I consider if 
any commission was paid it probably didnt exceed 10%. And Im not persuaded that a 
court is likely to find this created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship, in any event.unaffordable lending
Mr P says proper credit checks were not undertaken before lending and it was irresponsible 
of BPF to provide this finance. I accept BPF was required to undertake checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr P was likely to be able to afford to repay the borrowing without too much 
trouble. But, even if I were to find BPF didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to 
lend, I would still need to be satisfied that this loan was actually unaffordable for Mr P to 
reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
I havent got much information about Mr Ps circumstances at the relevant time. I can see 
we asked him for more evidence about this  such as his income and outgoings at the 
relevant time  as well as other relevant information and he hasnt supplied anything 
further. So, on the current information, Im not satisfied that the finance was unaffordable 
and I cant reasonably uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint.
Conclusion
As Ive said already, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr P may 
have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think any claim that Mr P might have against the supplier and/or BPF has probably 
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think its reasonable to take this into account.
And, for the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr P unfairly or acted 
unreasonably so I cant properly require BPF to compensate him or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or 
information by 3 February 2022. I explained that Id review all the evidence available after 
that and make my final decision. 
BPF accepted my provisional conclusions and it had nothing further to add. Mr P didnt 
respond and I extended the time for him to do so to 23 February 2022. That date has now 
passed and Mr P hasnt made any further submissions or raised any objections to my 
provisional findings. 
I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision, in the circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think BPF has treated Mr P unfairly or acted 
unreasonably. I am not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint. And I cant reasonably require BPF to compensate Mr P or do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman