DRN-2405171
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC decided he was liable for disputed payments made 
using his debit card.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr A contacted Lloyds and said that he didnt recognise some recent 
transactions on his account. The payments were made via a Google Play account that 
Mr As debit card was linked to. As part of the investigation, Mr A told Lloyds that:
The mobile device he used around the time was a Huawei P20 Pro. He later told 
Lloyds he owned and used a different make and model at the time;
The last transaction he recognised was on 13 October 2019;
His mobile device is password protected and that no-one else has access to it;
He lives with three of his siblings;
His card is kept with him and hasnt been accessed by someone else.
Lloyds cancelled Mr As debit card and issued him a new one while it looked in to the 
transactions. Around a week later, Mr A contacted Lloyds because hed noticed further 
payments that he didnt recognise. So Lloyds cancelled his debit card a second time and 
issued him a new one.
Lloyds decided that Mr A was liable for the payments. The bank obtained information 
regarding the Google Play account  the details of which matched Mr As name and 
address. Moreover, the bank said that the mobile device used matched Mr As device and 
the internet protocol (IP) address details coincided with the IP address of Mr As internet 
banking log ins. The bank also concluded that the transactions were in line with Mr As usual 
spending pattern. Mr A made a formal complaint to Lloyds who reiterated its findings.
Mr A remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. As part of the 
investigation, Mr A told us that:
Hes never owned a Huawei P20 Pro and uses a Samsung Galaxy S9 and his phone 
is password protected;
He lives with his parents;
He later added that he lives with his wife, who is the actual owner of a Huawei (but 
not the specific model mentioned above), from which he accessed his internet 
banking;
He didnt tell Lloyds that his mobile device is a Huawei P20 Pro and that someone 
must have impersonated him during the relevant phone call where this was said;
He has evidence that contradicts the IP address details Lloyds relied on  Mr A 
hasnt sent this to us;
He stopped using his Google Play account after noticing the first set of unrecognised 
transactions and that his new card wasnt linked to this account.
Our investigator decided that Lloyds had acted fairly. The investigator concluded that the 
payments were authenticated and that it was most likely Mr A who consented to these 
payments. The investigator highlighted that Mr As testimony had been inconsistent, so it 
was difficult to conclude anything other than that Mr A is likely to have made these 
payments.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. The relevant
regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Im satisfied that the genuine card was used in order for the disputed transactions to take 
place. Mr A says his debit card has remained in his possession and no-one else has access 
to it. He also says his original debit card was linked to his Google Play account. 
Lloyds has provided information breaking down each transaction  this shows that the 
payments were made using Mr As debit card. And following Mr As original debit card being 
cancelled and Lloyds issuing him a new one - the information shows that the new card was 
also used for the additional disputed payments. 
As Ive demonstrated from my summary above, Mr As explanations around the 
circumstances of these transactions have been inconsistent at times. So its difficult to look 
into the merits of what hes said. Despite what Mr A has said, Im persuaded that hes carried 
out the disputed transactions  Ill explain why.
The information Lloyds provided shows the purchases were made using a mobile device  a 
Huawei P20 Pro. Lloyds says Mr A told the bank that this was the mobile device he was 
using around the time, and Ive listened to a copy of the call where he provided these details. 
In a later call, Mr A told Lloyds that this wasnt his mobile device as he changed it around the 
time of the transactions. In a conversation with our investigator, Mr A said he never owned 
this mobile device at all and then recently emailed to say that the mobile device his wife uses 
is a Huawei  albeit a different model. 
Mr A thinks someone impersonated him during the call where Lloyds was told his mobile 
device was a Huawei P20 Pro. Having listened to the calls, I dont agree that this is likely to 
have happened. To impersonate Mr A, someone would need to pass strict security 
questions, be aware of the intricate details of Mr As disputed payments and have detailed 
knowledge of previous telephone conversations with Lloyds. 
On balance, I think Mr As mobile device around the time of the payments was indeed a 
Huawei P20 Pro and Im satisfied this is the device that was used to carry out the 
transactions. 
Mr A says his mobile device was password protected and couldnt be accessed by anyone 
else. He recently changed this to say his wife had permission to access his internet banking 
account via her mobile device. I cant say for certain which is the case. Nevertheless, given 
the internet banking log ins and the disputed payments were made via the same mobile 
device, it seems to me that either Mr A, or someone with his permission to do so is most 
likely to have carried out the transactions.Ive considered whether an unknown third party carried out these transactions. But the 
information Ive seen makes me think this is unlikely to have been the case. The pattern of 
spending on the debit card doesnt suggest it was in the hands of an opportunistic thief. The 
disputed payments appear to have been relatively small amounts and always below £50. As 
our investigator pointed out, each payment generally seems to have been preceded by a 
credit in to Mr As bank account from one of his other accounts  and the disputed payments 
never exceeded the amount that was credited in to Mr As account. Mr A hasnt disputed any 
of the transfers between his bank accounts, so Im satisfied he carried these out.
So in order to carry out the disputed payments, the unknown third party wouldve had to 
have known exactly how much was available in Mr As account and when the account was 
credited, so they could continue making further the payments. Had an unknown third party 
made these payments, its likely they wouldve tried to maximise use of Mr As debit card 
straight away, rather than carry out relatively small transactions. Additionally, the disputed 
payments continued even after Mr A was issued with a new debit card - its unlikely that an 
unknown third party knew Mr A had been issued with a new debit card and had access to 
this, as well as his previous debit card. 
Ive also considered whether someone close Mr A carried out these transactions  given the 
above, it seems more plausible than an unknown third party doing so. Mr A has provided 
differing accounts of who he lives with, so its difficult to make any conclusive findings on this 
point. Mr A recently said his wife has access to his internet banking via her mobile device, 
but that she doesnt have access to his Google Play account or his debit card. However, the 
information Lloyds has provided identifies Mr As mobile number as the one associated with 
each log in. Mr A also maintains that his cards have remained in his possession and that his 
mobile device is password protected and only accessible to him. 
Moreover, the Google Play transactions seem to match Mr As historic pattern of spending. 
Ive seen copies of Mr As bank statements from June 2019 onwards and these show 
multiple and regular purchases similar to those in dispute. So I think its unlikely that the 
disputed payments were made by someone close to Mr A, without his consent. 
Taking everything in to account, its difficult for me to conclude that somebody other than 
Mr A carried out the payments he is now disputing. So I wont be asking Lloyds to reimburse 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 March 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman