DRN-3503552
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of E - a limited company complains about a merchant services account with 
WorldPay (UK) Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both E and WorldPay. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
E had a card acquiring merchant service contact with WorldPay. This enabled E to take 
credit and debit card payments from their customers. In May 2019, E attempted to take 
payment (£2672) from a customer in store. The transaction didnt succeed and E received a 
retain card message on their card terminal. E took payment by an alternative card. 
Whilst the customer was still in store, E called Worldpay. WorldPay explained that as the 
transaction had gone through, E would need to contact them the following morning  once 
the previous days transactions had been reported and settled. 
A chargeback was later raised by the genuine cardholder and Es merchant account was 
debited for the value of the chargeback. E raised a complaint with WorldPay as they felt this 
was a real time fraud situation and WorldPay didnt respond appropriately during the phone 
call.  
WorldPay didnt uphold the main part of Es complaint, but did offer £200 for the service 
theyd provided over several months. E referred their complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. 
WorldPay raised a query about the time taken for the complaint to be referred to our Service. 
Our Investigator provided evidence that the complaint had been referred in time and didnt 
recommend that this complaint be upheld.
As E didnt accept the recommendation, the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Therefore, I wont comment 
on every point raised but have considered all of the evidence. 
Its not within our remit to direct WorldPay to change its processes or systems  so I wont 
comment on any points related to this in my decision. 
What happened during the phone call?
Ive listened to a copy of the call recording in question. Its clear E wanted reassurance that 
everything was ok with regards to the transaction. I want to acknowledge that E will have 
been restricted in how openly they could discuss any concerns they had with WorldPay - 
given that the customer was standing beside them. 
The card terminal indicated that the first card should be retained and the WorldPay adviser 
confirmed this on the call. WorldPay explained that E should retain the card. I find no issue 
with this advice. 
E said they were trying to establish that everything was fine and if they could take the 
second card as a method of payment. But Ive also noted that shortly before this, E told 
WorldPay that the customer had another card and hed paid on that instead. This is 
important as, regardless of what the agent told E  payment had already been taken on that 
second card by that point. 
As E had already processed payment on a second card - WorldPay were very limited in what 
more they could do at that point to prevent the fraud taking place. However, I do accept that 
had it been identified that there was an issue with the second card. E couldve perhaps taken 
mitigating action - such as retaining the ring being sold or contacted the police.  
At around two minutes 10 seconds into the call, the agent asked E if they were wanting to do 
a name and address check. It was explained that the agent would be able to do this and 
would need to open up another system. The conversation after this was focussed on the 
retain message for card one. 
At two minutes forty seconds into the call, the adviser then correctly referenced a name and 
address check with the card issuer - but E said the transaction has gone through fine. E 
again referenced wanting to know if everything was fine and the adviser correctly explained 
that an authorisation code was no guarantee or protection from a chargeback potentially 
being raised in the future. In short, it meant the funds needed were available at that time to 
satisfy the transaction amount and the card hadnt been reported as lost or stolen. 
If E had contacted WorldPay after the retain message appeared for card one, but before 
they processed payment for card two  then there possibly may have been more WorldPay 
couldve done to verify the card being used. But even in this hypothetical scenario, an 
authorisation approval doesnt guarantee the transaction or that a chargeback wont later be 
raised by the genuine cardholder. I cant speculate as to what a name and address check 
would have produced on either card - as it didnt happen at that time. 
Although E has been critical of the WorldPay agent, having carefully listened to the call, Im 
reasonably satisfied they tried their best to help answer Es queries as best they could and 
provided reasonable service. The advice to contact WorldPay the following day, once the 
transaction had settled in the account was also fair and reasonable. E chose to end the call 
and said theyd call WorldPay back. The call may not have gone exactly as either party 
would have wanted it to and there may have been some misunderstanding as to what 
exactly E wanted - but Ive balanced this against the fact that the customer was still right 
beside E and they wont have been able to speak as directly or freely as they might have 
liked. Ive also kept in mind that it was evident throughout the call that E were keen not to 
hold up their customer for longer than needed and referenced on a number of occasions 
how long things were taking. 
Ive also noted that E processed the card two payment via manual entry. This bypassed 
security measures - such as pin entry. This also meant that E would be liable for any resulting chargeback  regardless of anything else that happened during this call here. This 
is outlined in the terms and conditions of this account. 
E has referred to a police investigation and delays caused by WorldPay. But WorldPay 
havent acted unreasonably in not investigating whats gone on until the chargeback was 
raised after the transaction. If E had CCTV or other evidence and thats been deleted or 
saved over - thats not the responsibility of WorldPay.  
WorldPay made an offer of £200 in their final response letter dated 31 October 2019. I find 
this to be a fair, reasonable and proportionate way to settle the complaint and I dont require 
WorldPay to do anything further.
Summary 
Unfortunately E has been a victim of fraud here. They accepted what their customer had told 
them in good faith after receiving the retain card notification - but then accepted second 
card as payment method. 
Ive not found sufficiently persuasive supporting evidence to fairly conclude that WorldPay 
should be liable for the chargeback that was later raised. 
I acknowledge my decision will disappoint E, but it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve this dispute between E and WorldPay.
My final decision
I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman