DRN-4362092
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim he made on his home insurance policy after his roof was damaged following a storm.
What happened
Mr T has home insurance with RSA. It provides cover for damage to the home caused by 
escape of water, malicious damage, flood and storm, amongst other things.
In February 2022 during storm Eunice a large section of Mr Ts dormer roof was blown off by 
a particularly violent gust of wind. Despite his efforts he was unable to put a temporary fix on 
the roof and so the property suffered further damage from the wind and rain. 
Mr T contacted RSA to report the claim. The claim was assessed and accepted by RSA. Mr 
T and his family had to move into temporary accommodation while the work was carried out. 
Mr T says there were issues with the repairs  and he spent a lot of time trying to get 
updates from RSA in respect of the scope of works and the alternative accommodation. 
Mr T wants RSA to apologise for the additional distress and worry caused. He wants RSA to 
reconsider the proportionate settlement application to the accommodation, and a refund of 
the associated proportionate settlement costs. Mr T also wants compensation for the stress 
and worry the matter has caused  in particular he has calculated over 100 hours spend 
resolving issues. Because Mr T remained dissatisfied he complained. 
RSA instructed a surveyor to inspect Mr Ts property. Following this RSA said it wasnt 
responsible for the water ingress issues Mr T was experiencing. So the complaint wasnt 
upheld. 
Mr T didnt agree with RSA and so referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for him. He said he was partially upholding the complaint. 
The investigator said communication during the claim could have been better, and the 
updates on claim progress and alternative accommodation could have been more proactive. 
The investigator also acknowledged the time spent by Mr T in trying to move the claim along 
and to get updates. He noted delays in agreeing to extend the alternative accommodation 
which meant Mr T and his family were moved into a two-bedroom property rather than the 
three-bedroom home he previously had. The investigator noted Mr C was left to arrange his 
own accommodation which added to his distress and inconvenience. He said the expert 
opinion on the roof was there was likely water ingress to the dormer structure for a number 
of years prior; and this allowed water to penetrate into the structure. The investigator said 
RSA should pay Mr T £600 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused  and explained 
this amount falls within our bracket for when mistakes have caused considerable distress, 
upset and worry, as well as significant inconvenience and disruption. On consideration of 
further evidence and testimony the investigator increased the level of compensation to £750. 
RSA didnt agree with the level of compensation recommended by the investigator and so 
the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry Mr T finds himself in this situation, with a potential bill for repairs to his roof, I 
understand that it must be very worrying for him. Its clear that this matter has caused Mr T 
and his family significant distress and inconvenience; compounded by a lack of 
communication from RSA and some periods of delay. 
I can see from the information provided that Mr T spent significant time and energy in trying 
to engage with RSA to get his home back into a condition that his family could move back in. 
And I dont underestimate the stress this had on him and his family. 
Notwithstanding the above, my role here is to look at RSAs actions to see if it has acted fair 
and reasonably, and in line with the terms of the policy. This services role is not to punish 
businesses and we are not the regulator, so Im unable to compel it to change its processes 
or procedures. 
Both parties have provided a large amount of documentation and its not my intention to go 
through each document or point raised. I have looked at the main crux of the complaint and 
detailed my findings below. 
Having considered the information provided Im satisfied there was storm damage to Mr Ts 
roof, and RSA accepted the claim and undertook the repairs. And this is what I would have 
expected it to do. 
Mr T had to move out of his home as a result of the damage and I can see he spent a lot of 
time chasing for updates about the accommodation, whether the booking would be 
extended, and worrying about where his family would sleep. I know hes had to move with 
his family and at one stage his son wasnt living with him owing to the disruption. I agree with 
the investigator that communication regarding the accommodation was poor; and had RSA 
acted proactively its likely there would have been less disruption for Mr T and his family. 
And so, Im upholding this part of the complaint.
Water ingress 
RSA say the water ingress isnt consistent with the storm damage or with the work its 
contractors undertook. RSA provided a report from the surveyor who inspected the work 
following the repairs. The report confirms, it is our opinion that there may have been water 
ingress to the dormer structure for a number of years due to the many shortfalls in the 
construction details and workmanship. Over time these defects have allowed water to 
penetrated (sic) into the structure, e.g., inadequate flashing becoming loose and decaying 
wood have increased the risk for water penetrating through into the internal finishes. There 
are also photographs which evidence the defects in the structure. And Im persuaded by 
what the report says and shows. I also havent seen any firm evidence that the experts 
report is incorrect. 
I understand Mr T feels it is unfair his insurer wont cover the cost of repairing the roof. But 
the insurer is entitled to rely on the professional opinion of its agents. And when RSA 
declined to cover those repairs it was explained to Mr T that he could obtain a report from 
another contractor if he felt RSA were to blame for the damage to the roof. I cant see Mr T 
obtained another report supporting his position. So having considered the expert opinion provided Im more persuaded by RSAs view of the likely cause of water ingress. And so I 
dont think RSA has acted unfairly here. 
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr T who has already had to pay a significant 
amount of money to have his house repaired. But, having considered everything I dont think 
RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to cover the cost of repairs to the roof, 
based on the evidence Ive seen. 
Putting things right
I can see Mr T had to contact RSA on numerous occasions in order to find out what was 
happening with the repairs, his alternative accommodation, and the cost of the works. The 
service provided to Mr T by RSA has fallen short of what I would have expected. RSA didnt 
provide Mr T with updates regarding the scope of works and there was confusion over the 
alternative accommodation. Our investigator recommended RSA pay £750 to Mr T to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings in its service. Im satisfied this is 
a fair and reasonable settlement. I say this because I think it fairly recognises the upset 
caused to Mr T and is in line with our services approach.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im partially upholding this complaint and direct Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr T £750 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman