DRN-3331764
The complaint
Mr H complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his request to cancel an online 
purchase.
What happened
Mr H says he called HSBC on 9 September 2021 to try and cancel an online purchase. He 
says he was placed on hold for 45 minutes and so ended the call. Mr H says he tried to 
arrange a call back from HSBC but was told he would have to wait for four weeks. He says 
he was told to try the disputes department again. Mr H would like an apology and £100 
compensation.
HSBC says it hasnt made a mistake and it told Mr H that he could try and contact it again. It 
says it has apologised for any frustration and inconvenience caused.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr H was fairly told by HSBC to try and contact it again by telephone but 
thought he no longer wished to ask it to continue with the dispute. The investigator didnt 
think any real detriment was caused and that Mr H wasnt treated unfairly.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says four weeks for a call back is not acceptable. He also 
complains about the music he was subjected to when waiting for HSBC to answer the 
telephone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require HSBC to pay Mr H the 
£100 compensation he would like. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and 
I appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
I have no doubt Mr H was caused frustration and inconvenience in waiting for 45 minutes for 
a telephone call to be answered and appreciate what he says about the choice of waiting 
music. We are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to punish or fine a business. And 
we cant direct a business about its choice of waiting music. I also appreciate that HSBC was 
unable to arrange a call back within a month but equally I am satisfied that it explained why. 
And whilst I accept that put the onus back on Mr H to call HSBC, I dont find that was unfair.
I can see that Mr H would like £100 compensation for what took place and an apology. Im 
satisfied that HSBC did apologise for the frustration and inconvenience Mr H was caused. 
But I dont think a compensation payment of £100 is justified here. I dont think Mr H suffered 
any financial loss and can see that the dispute was not proceeded with any further 
involvement by HSBC. Im satisfied that on occasions customers of any business can be 
subject to long call waiting times and that it is difficult to predict the likely call volumes and 
nature of those calls. I also think that despite waiting for 45 minutes Mr H could, if he had 
wished, tried to contact HSBC again.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for what took place. But that it doesnt 
follow that, even when a customer is caused inconvenience or frustration by such matters as 
here, compensation is justified.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman