DRN-4088508
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited settled a claim made 
under his home insurance policy after his watch was stolen.
What happened
Mr M has home insurance underwritten by RSA, which covers buildings, contents and 
personal possessions away from the home, amongst other things. 
He made a claim in August 2022 after his watch was stolen whilst he was walking in the 
street with his dog.
Mr M says the theft took place on Monday 4 July 2022 - and he reported it to the Police the 
same day.
He says he bought the watch for £11,600 on Friday 1 July 2022. He says hed been on a 
waiting list for the particular make and model of watch for several years. He says its market 
value  at the time  was £40,000.
He made a claim through his credit card insurer and they paid him £2,500. He then made the 
claim to RSA, essentially asking them to pay out the remaining £37,500 to make up the 
market value of the watch.
RSA accepted the claim but told Mr M theyd pay only £2,660. This is the policy limit for 
unspecified personal possessions. RSA pointed out the watch had not been specified by 
Mr M under his policy. 
RSA also told Mr M that if they were to settle the claim up to the policy limit (£2,660), hed 
need to give them the box the watch had come in as well as the guarantee card.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to RSA. And when they maintained that 
the settlement offer wouldnt be changed, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. She thought 
the policy limit had been applied fairly and reasonably. And she thought RSA were entitled to 
ask for the box and documents if they were to pay out on the claim.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about what the policy terms were. Mr Ms policy document 
states quite clearly that policy limits may apply. And it says that the relevant policy limits will 
be set out in the policy schedule.
The schedule clearly states that the maximum RSA will pay out for any claim relating to 
damage or loss of personal possessions away from the home is £2,660, except where any 
more expensive items are specified in the schedule.
Mr Ms schedule has cover for one specified item  another watch  valued at around 
£4,800. Theres no dispute here that the watch he purchased on 1 July 2022 was not 
specified in the schedule.
Its absolutely clear in this case then that RSA are entitled to settle Mr Ms claim at the upper 
limit of £2,660 for unspecified items if we apply the policy terms strictly and as clearly set out 
in the relevant policy documents.
Mr Ms argument is that it would be unfair to apply the policy terms so strictly. He says he 
has cover for personal possessions away from the home. And it was his intention to contact 
RSA to register the watch as a specified item  and pay any attendant increase in the 
premium  early in the week beginning Monday 4 July 2022. 
His view then is that RSA should pay him the full open market value of the watch, less the 
amount recovered through his credit card insurance and less the notional increase in 
premiums he would have had to pay had he contacted RSA to specify the watch before it 
was stolen. 
I know it will disappoint Mr M  and he has my sympathy about the theft of his watch  but I 
cant agree with him about that. Ill explain why.
Its clear that when Mr M bought the watch, he knew it needed to be specifically covered 
under his insurance policy. He has another  less valuable  watch insured as a specified 
item. And he himself tells us that he intended to contact RSA to add the new watch to the 
policy as a specified item.
Mr M could have contacted RSA prior to collecting the watch on Friday 1 July 2022 to ask 
them to add the watch to the policy schedule as a specified item from the date of purchase. 
He could have contacted RSA on the Friday after picking up the watch. RSAs phone lines 
are open on Saturdays  at least for a large part of the day. So, he could have contacted 
them then. And Mr M might have contacted them on the Monday before he went out of the 
house wearing the watch.
As Ive said above, the policy terms strictly applied mean RSA only have to pay out up to the 
£2,660 limit. 
If we then come to the question of whether its fair to apply the policy terms, I have to ask 
myself whose choice it was to wear the watch outside the house before it was properly 
insured  who, in effect, chose to take the risk that the watch might be stolen or lost. 
Of course, those were Mr Ms choices, not RSAs. And, as I say, he took those actions 
knowing beforehand that his watch wasnt properly or fully insured.
Mr M is in effect asking RSA to indemnify him for the loss of an item because he says he 
had intended to insure it, although he hadnt done so by the time it was stolen. 
Im sure Mr M will appreciate where it might lead if we were to ask insurers to accept claims 
from individuals who werent insured for damage to or loss of a particular item but intended 
to be insured soon. Its a fundamental principle of insurance that you take out  and pay for  
the cover before the loss or damage occurs.It's also very clear that the intention of the policy limits - and the requirement that valuable 
items are specified - is so that RSA can fully assess the risk to them and set the premium 
accordingly. 
If a very valuable item (worth almost eight times the policy limit, according to Mr Ms 
valuation of the watch) is not specified, then its perfectly fair and reasonable for RSA to say 
that item is covered only to the extent that a non-specified item is covered.
In short, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable in any way for RSA to apply the relevant 
policy limit to Mr Ms claim.
Nor do I think its unfair or unreasonable for them to ask for the box and documents relating 
to the watch if they are to pay the claim up to the relevant policy limit. Where a claim for loss 
is settled, the item concerned becomes the property of the insurer.
I understand Mr Ms concern that the box and documents might be lost, but RSA have given 
assurances that they will be married up with the watch if and when it is recovered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman