DRN-2731140
The complaint
Ms I complains about the information Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded with credit reference 
agencies, after she had complained to them about the quality of a kitchen she bought using 
her credit card.
What happened
In February 2020, Ms I used her credit card with Barclays, to pay for a new kitchen. Shortly 
afterwards, Ms I transferred sufficient funds to her credit card, to repay the full balance. Prior 
to the purchase, Ms I says the kitchen supplier came to her home to take all the necessary 
measurements.
Around a month later, the new kitchen was delivered. But, Ms Is installer noticed that the 
kitchen worktops were too short for the space they were due to be fitted into. Ms I says she 
spoke to the supplier about the problems and asked for a refund. The supplier didnt agree to 
the refund, or respond fully to Ms Is concerns. So, she contacted Barclays to make a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
Barclays asked Ms I to get a report on the kitchen and a quote for the cost to put things right. 
They told Ms I that they would cover the cost of the report. Barclays also apologised for a 
lack of clarification after Ms I had first raised her section 75 claim and paid her £50.
A kitchen installer local to Ms I, put together a report on the kitchen in September 2020. The 
report covered the repairs needed and included a detailed quote to supply and fit a correctly 
sized worktop. Ms I used her credit card with Barclays to pay for the report, which cost 
£76.88.
The report explained that Ms I had been left with kitchen she couldnt use and was a risk to 
her and her familys health and safety. After sending the report to Barclays, Ms I says she 
didnt receive a response, or a refund for the cost of the report. So, she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator reviewed all the information and after further discussions with Barclays, the 
cost of the independent report was refunded. Barclays also agreed to refund £3,100 to Ms Is 
credit card, to settle her complaint. 
Ms I accepted Barclays offer, but said that as Barclays had delayed the refund, it had 
created a missed payment marker on her credit file and she wanted Barclays to remove it.
The investigator considered things further and concluded that Barclays had told Ms I that 
they would refund the cost of the report, so it was reasonable that Ms I hadnt made a 
payment. She said Barclays should remove the adverse information connected to Ms Is 
credit card account, along with any fees associated with the transaction. 
The investigator also asked Barclays to pay Ms I £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the recording of the missed payment information.
Barclays didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said they have removed fees and 
charges connected to the transaction for the kitchen installers report. 
But, they said Ms I should have told them when she had paid for the report, so they could 
have arranged for a refund earlier. Barclays also said that it was Ms Is responsibility to 
maintain repayments to her credit card account, so any missed payment information was a 
true reflection of what had happened.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions, so Mis Is case has now been referred to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The section 75 claim
Ms I has accepted the offer of £3,100 from Barclays to settle her section 75 claim. For this 
reason, Ive not considered Barclays handling of Ms Is claim in my final decision. I think 
each party to this case has agreed that this part of the complaint has been settled and the 
amount has already been paid to Ms I.
However, Ms I remains unhappy with the information recorded by Barclays with credit 
reference agencies about a missed payment. 
In then follows that Ive gone on to consider what happened when Barclays sent their final 
response to the complaint to Ms I, and her own responsibility to repay the balance of her 
credit card account.
Barclays letter to Ms I
Ms I says she first raised her section 75 claim with Barclays in June 2020 and provided all 
the information she had about the kitchen, in an email a month later. After some initial 
correspondence with Ms I, Barclays responded to her complaint in September 2020. 
Within this letter Barclays told Ms I they needed an independent assessment of her kitchen 
on headed paper with the contact details of the assessor, in case they had further questions. 
The letter also says:
We would cover the cost of this IA (independent report).
The following day, Ms I was able to get an independent report written on headed paper 
which included contact details of a kitchen installer.
Ive carefully considered Barclays instruction to Ms I to enable them to progress her section 
75 claim. I think Barclays agreed to pay for the independent report on the condition that Ms I 
was able to get one completed for her kitchen. I think the report Ms I provided contained the 
information Barclays had asked for. 
So, I think it was fair for Ms I to expect a refund from Barclays, after she had paid for it 
herself.
The letter from Barclays doesnt contain any further information about how Ms I should go 
about getting a refund, or about how Barclays intends to cover the cost with Ms I. So, I think 
Barclays letter left this part open. So, Ive considered Ms Is further actions, the activity on her account and the other steps taken by Barclays to attempt to resolve this case.
When Barclays became aware of the independent report
When Ms I was given the independent report in early September 2020, she got in touch with 
us in the following week. Both Ms I and our investigator sent the report to Barclays, which 
eventually resulted in the settling of her section 75 claim. Taking everything into 
consideration, I think Barclays were aware at the end of September 2020, that Ms I had paid 
for the report they had told her to get.
Barclays say that they wouldnt have monitored Ms Is credit card statement. Instead, they 
say the relied on her telling them when she had the independent report and how much to 
refund. 
I acknowledge that it wouldve been impractical for Barclays to have kept an eye on Ms Is 
credit card activity, for the cost of the report. But, I think Barclays had shown they had Ms Is 
section 75 claim and the subsequent complaint in hand. So, I think it would have been 
reasonable for them to have made contact with Ms I, when they received the report in 
September 2020, to ask about covering the cost of it.
Barclays didnt make contact with Ms I to talk about covering the cost and the transaction for 
the report remained on her credit card account. So, Ive considered Ms Is responsibility with 
making a payment to her account in the interim.
Barclays has sent us the statements for Ms Is credit card account from August 2019 to 
February 2021. From looking at the statements, I can see that Ms I used her credit card 
twice after the transaction for the independent report debited her account. Other than that, 
the card wasnt used again. Ms I then repaid the exact amount of the further usage and left 
the balance created by the independent report transaction on her account.
I agree with Ms I, in that the activity on her credit card account shows that she thought 
Barclays would refund the cost of the independent report, when they became aware she had 
paid for it. I dont think Ms I deliberately avoided making payments to her account, or had 
refused to repay a balance she owed. 
Ive considered all the evidence and I think it was reasonable for Ms I to expect Barclays to 
refund the cost of the report to the credit card, after she had sent them a copy of it. So, I 
think it was fair for her to repay the two further transactions she was responsible for and 
leave the report amount for Barclays to cover.
Barclays refunded the charges associated with the missed payments on Ms Is account in 
early 2021. I acknowledge that in doing so, Barclays tried to help resolve Ms Is complaint, 
after the section 75 claim was completed. But, I dont think Barclays attempts to resolve 
things with Ms I have gone far enough. I think Barclays should have done more to help Ms I, 
by also looking at the impact on her credit report.
Having considered everything, I think Barclays had a responsibility to Ms I when they 
became aware that she had sent them the independent report. I think Barclays ought to have 
made further contact with Ms I in September 2020, about covering the cost of the report, 
which they had offered in their response to her complaint. 
Barclays have already refunded the cost of the report and the fees accrued on Ms Is credit 
card account, related to the missed payment. So, I think its fair and reasonable that they 
also take the further step to remove the missed payment information from Ms Is credit 
report. This will, as much as is realistically possible, have the effect of putting Ms Is account in the position it would have been in, had Barclays taken action in September 2020.
In all the circumstances I think its fair that Barclays remove the adverse information held by 
credit reference agencies, about the missed payments from October 2020 onwards, on 
Ms Is credit card account.
Distress and inconvenience
Ms I has explained to us that she is worried about the effect of the missed payments on her 
credit file. She says a credit card provider has recently reduced the limit on one of her 
accounts and suspects the information recorded by Barclays is the cause of that. 
Ive considered the extract of Ms Is credit report which she sent to us. The extract shows 
which of her accounts are in arrears, but it doesnt go into detail about the history of each 
account. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude Barclays actions have directly 
led other lenders to make decisions to reduce Ms Is credit limits. 
But, I can see that Miss I made several calls to Barclays from early October 2020, to try and 
sort the payment for the report out. I can see from the detail of the notes Ms I has sent to us 
and Barclays own contact records that Ms I attempted to address the outstanding payment 
on her account, in the month after she had paid for the report.
From looking at all the information available, I think Ms I experienced distress and 
inconvenience when bringing the section 75 claim and when she brought her subsequent 
concern about the refund for the report to Barclays. I agree that theres always some degree 
of inconvenience for a customer, when dealing with a claim like Ms Is. 
But, I think the amount of calls and delay meant that Ms I experienced an unreasonable 
amount of hassle in trying to resolve things with Barclays.
On balance, I think Barclays had the information to show that Ms I had paid for the report. 
With that information, I think Barclays could have made attempts to cover the cost of the 
report sooner. So, I think Barclays added to the distress and the very difficult personal 
circumstances Ms I was already experiencing, due to being without a kitchen that was safe 
to use, in her home.
Overall, Im persuaded that Ms I experienced distress and inconvenience during her section 
75 claim with Barclays, when the transaction for the kitchen installers report was unpaid 
from her current account. In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Barclays to pay Ms I 
£150 to reflect the impact on her.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank must remove the adverse information, held with credit reference agencies 
which they recorded about the missed payments from October 2020 onwards, on Ms Is 
credit card account. Barclays should also pay Ms I £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
she has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
- remove the adverse information held with credit reference agencies, about the 
missed payments from October 2020 onwards, on Ms Is credit card account; and- pay Ms I £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman