DRN-3759021
The complaint and background
Mr N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) will not refund payments he made to an 
investment scam. For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr N includes his 
representative. 
In early 2021, Mr N was contacted by a representative of what he thought was a genuine 
investment scheme (which Ill call E). After striking up a conversation with the agent of E, 
Mr N was persuaded to invest in cryptocurrency given the high profitability he was told it 
would produce. He made eight payments in February 2021 using his Monzo debit card; 
amounting to just over £2,600 in total. Mr N was told to make payment to two genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms, which converted his fiat money into cryptocurrency  
Mr N then sent the funds onwards to E from there. 
However, it turned out that Mr N was scammed, with there being no investment venture at 
all. When Mr N raised a complaint about this with Monzo, citing that it ought to have done 
more to protect the account, the bank didnt agree. In the end, Mr N ended up referring the 
dispute to this office. 
Monzo expressed that it hadnt had the opportunity to fully investigate the contended 
payments, but our investigator explained that ample time had passed for it to provide its final 
response to the complaint. Accordingly, the investigator began to investigate what had 
happened and found no fair and reasonable basis for the bank to have to reimburse Mr N. 
Monzo did not dispute this. Mr N does disagree, countering that there were reasonable 
grounds for the bank to have stepped in and warned him of the risk of being scammed. 
Because Mr N is not in agreement, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although my decision only concentrates on the key 
points, I have duly read and considered all thats been provided. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why. 
Its common ground Mr N authorised the disputed payments that he made to the two 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms using his Monzo debit card (where his funds were 
subsequently transferred onwards to the scammers from there). The payments were all 
requested by Mr N using his legitimate security credentials provided by Monzo. 
The starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by consumers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. However, there are some situations 
where banks taking into account the relevant rules, codes and best practice ought to 
have been on alert or notice that something wasnt right about the circumstances 
surrounding a transaction. 
Accordingly, it can be a reasonable expectation for a bank to double-check payment 
instructions that ought reasonably to trigger concerns on account of the activity 
representing considerably unusual or uncharacteristic conduct for a consumer.
Considering the individual circumstances of this case, Im not satisfied its fair to expect 
Monzos systems to have been triggered by the authorised payments in question. There is a 
lack of persuasive evidence that these transactions were significantly abnormal or out of 
character compared with Mr Ns typical account activity in recent times.
Monzo was not presented with E as a payee, as the payments were made to the two 
cryptocurrency exchanges in the first instance. This means I cannot consider whether Monzo 
ought to have regarded an intention to pay E as suspicious. The cryptocurrency exchanges 
that were paid were created as new payees  but this was not uncommon for the account. 
Mr N had made payments to recipients not paid before. The statements demonstrate a 
variety of different purchases. It also wasnt uncharacteristic for Mr N to pay out to multiple 
payees, or to remit money to the same payee more than once on the same day.
Mr N submits that the very fact that he paid two cryptocurrency exchange platforms gave 
Monzo grounds to step in and ask questions of his intentions. While I acknowledge Mr Ns 
argument, Im afraid I do not agree. 
Its true that theres an array of scams linked to cryptocurrency  it is an area that is 
unfortunately connected with mendacious schemes. Still, obtaining cryptocurrency is not 
unlawful; Monzo will no doubt process a multitude of daily transactions for its consumers to 
purchase genuine cryptocurrency options that are not the proceeds of fraud. The point 
being, not every transaction in this market is part of illicit activity. Like fiat currency moving 
around the UK banking system, some payments are regrettably caused by fraudsters 
targeting unwitting victims, while others are not. 
I recognise Mr Ns assertion that Monzo is aware of the rise of fraud and scams that involve 
cryptocurrency and should take appropriate steps in response. But, in fairness, this line of 
reasoning must take into account the increase in payments that are not to do with fraud, i.e. 
theres been an exponential uptake in cryptocurrency in general. 
As a member of the UK banking network, Monzo must facilitate such transactions unless its 
expressly told not to by the regulator and/or the authorities. At the time of writing this 
decision, theres not been a strict prohibition put in place to oblige banks to refuse payment 
instructions based solely on them being sent to cryptocurrency organisations. 
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying transactions that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments  and delaying a payment 
instruction could lead Monzo to breach the relevant regulations. Im also mindful that if 
payment institutions like Monzo were required to interrupt every time a consumer remitted 
money to do with cryptocurrency, it would risk grinding the banking system to a halt. 
Ultimately, Mr N is entitled to acquire cryptocurrency (along with other investment assets).  
Monzo is obliged to follow the account mandate unless it has good reason to be 
disconcerted. So, in the individual circumstances of this case, Im not convinced the 
involvement of cryptocurrency alone necessitated an intervention from the bank. 
Mr N has raised that the quick disbursement of money he had just paid into the account 
ought to have caused alarm. I interpret this as Mr N claiming that the bank should have 
identified that he had only just placed money into the account namely from a separate 
savings pot and then almost immediately transmitted the same funds away again. I have to consider that its not unusual for consumers to make larger, planned purchases that 
are facilitated by crediting their account shortly beforehand. Indeed, the reason why one 
might have a separate savings holding is because, typically, the type of account Mr N holds 
with Monzo does not attract a rate of return for funds being held in situ. 
Without question, its commonplace for consumers to build balances of money in separate 
accounts designed to help with the growth of capital, but then occasionally move these 
savings to buy goods or services using a debit card on an account like the one here. 
As a consequence, theres a reasonable argument that Mr Ns habitude to follow money paid 
in with some spending actually made it more difficult for Monzo to suspect something 
untoward might be taking place with these particular payments. Ive also borne in mind that, 
because of the varying incomings and outgoings, there is not necessarily a marked pattern 
with how Mr N ordinarily transacted on the account. 
Whats more, the disputed payments did hold characteristics comparable to his prior 
spending. For example, they were all made online, in keeping with Mr Ns tendency. 
I accept there were instances where the payment values may have been larger than
some of Mr Ns previous expenditure. I also appreciate that, in total, Mr N has lost over 
£2,600  which is a significant sum of money. Even so, this was spread over eight separate 
increments, made on five separate days and over a period spanning several weeks. 
Mr N regularly made payments out of the account in multiples of hundreds of pounds, which 
is what Monzo could reasonably be expected to compare against. Making a relatively more 
substantial payment was not a clear deviation from how the account was usually run. I must 
also bear in mind that the nature of this account Mr N holds with Monzo means that there will 
typically be larger transactions from time to time (in line with what Ive set out above) and 
this will mean the available balance will occasionally depreciate. 
To that end, Mr N making these payments would not be so unusual as to amount to a 
significant deviation from normal account behavior. Im not persuaded the transactions in 
question represented a sudden change to the regular operation of the account. Nor, did they 
reflect a distinct increase in spending when balanced with what was paid in. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not satisfied that there were sufficient grounds for 
Monzo to suspect fraud or a scam, and therefore justify an intervention. 
Finally, I turn to whether the funds could have been recovered once paid. I do not consider 
that Monzo ought to have acted differently with regard to chargeback (which would be the 
applicable recourse method here). Based on the card scheme rules, which are the deciding 
factor, Im not convinced these payments met the requisite criteria to warrant a successful 
pursuit. 
I say so because, its highly unlikely an effective chargeback claim would be made under the 
circumstances, because the service would be considered provided (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency from both exchange platforms). Therefore, I do not think Monzo has acted 
unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman