DRN-4109283
The complaint
Mrs M is represented by her husband Mr M. He is unhappy with how life Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited have settled a claim made under Mrs Ms long-term care bond. 
What happened
Mrs M held a long-term care bond which pays a benefit to cover the cost of long-term care. 
Mrs M has complex care needs and is cared for by Mr M. Theres no dispute that she has a 
valid claim under her long-term care bond. However, Aviva has agreed to pay half the total 
benefit because Mrs M is being cared for by Mr M, as opposed to a care provider theyve 
contracted with. 
Mr M is unhappy with Avivas decision to limit the benefit to 50%. Mr M wants Aviva to pay 
the full benefit as Mrs M cant be cared for by anyone else. Due to her condition shes unable 
to accept other people into the home and isnt able to accept personal care from anyone 
other than Mr M.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think that Avivas decision to pay 
half of the benefit was unreasonable. She explained the policy terms specifically defined 
care provider and the policy was underwritten on the basis that care would be provided by 
care providers, as opposed to family members. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he said 
that Aviva should be able to contract with him. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs M is entitled to claim on the policy. The key issue is whether 
Avivas decision to pay half the benefit is fair. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Where Long Term Care Benefit is to be paid: 
Your Care Counsellor will help you to choose Care Providers to provide you with the 
Care Services you need and we will contract direct with the Care Providers to provide 
you with Care Services which in total do not cost more than the Long Term Care 
Benefit and we will pay the Care Providers direct for the Care Services. 
Care Provider is defined as: 
This is an organisation or an individual with whom we have contracted to provide 
Care Services. 
Care Services is defined as: 
These are medical, nursing and domestic services provided to you and for which we 
contract. They are services which are intended to assist you to undertake the 
Activities of Daily Living which you are otherwise unable to undertake, or with your 
Mental Impairment Care Services include (sic) the accommodation and supervisory 
services you receive while living in a residential or nursing home, and while you are 
living at home, domestic services such as cooking, cleaning and shopping. 
Was it unreasonable for Aviva to limit the benefit to 50%? 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms testimony about the circumstances of this case. That 
includes what hes said about Mrs M being unable to accept other people into the home, due 
to her illness. I have a lot of empathy with Mr Ms position and can understand why its 
upsetting that the full benefit isnt being paid. However, I dont think Avivas decision to limit 
the benefit is unreasonable for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The starting point is the policy terms and conditions. The terms make it clear that Aviva will 
contract with Care Providers to provide Care Services. Both terms have specific definitions 
and there is no scope within the policy for such care to be offered by family members. So, on 
a strict interpretation of the policy terms there is no cover for the specific circumstances 
surrounding Mrs Ms care needs. 
In agreeing to pay half of the benefit as a cash payment to Mr M, Aviva has stepped outside 
the policy terms and conditions which I think is fair and reasonable. Ive therefore gone on to 
consider whether the amount Aviva has agreed to pay is fair. 
Aviva has explained that the type of care the policy covered was priced to reflect that the 
long-term care was provided by a Care Provider, as opposed to a benefit payable to the 
policyholders family. That is something that is factored into the price of the policy. 
Aviva has therefore considered Mrs Ms claim in a similar way to a claim under a policy 
which did provide a benefit that family members. As Ive outlined above thats something 
thats not strictly covered by the policy terms. So, I think in paying Mr M half of the benefit 
Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to direct Aviva to contract with Mr M as hes suggested. 
Whilst its clear that Mr M cares for Mrs M hes not a qualified or professional carer. The 
policy is designed to cover a contractual relationship between Aviva and qualified providers. 
As Ive explained, thats something thats factored into the price of the policy.     
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman