DRN-2456442
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the service provided under a home emergency insurance policy 
with British Gas Insurance Limited. Mrs L is represented in this complaint by her daughter, 
Miss L. 
What happened
Mrs L has held the policy with British Gas for some time. In January 2019 British Gas 
attended as a radiator was leaking. It said the pipe was made of steel and the policy does 
not cover repairs to steel central heating pipes. It carried out a temporary repair and quoted 
to replace the pipe and repair it permanently. Mrs L agreed to the work being done privately 
at a cost of £202. I understand the work was completed satisfactorily.
However, Miss L is unhappy that British Gas did not contact her about the work required, as 
she has Power of Attorney for her mother. Miss L also says the policy documentation says it 
covers unlimited repairs to the central heating system and so the repairs should have been 
covered under the policy. 
British Gas said the policy terms are clear and it did not know that Miss L held a Power of 
Attorney until it was sent to it after this complaint was raised. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld. He 
said the policy terms were sufficiently clear and while the policy does say there is unlimited 
cover for pipe repairs this is subject to some exclusions, including in relation to steel pipes. 
He also said there was not enough evidence Mrs L lacked proper capacity to make the 
decision to get the work done in January 2019, as the evidence Miss L has provided 
suggests it was not until July 2020 that a doctor determined Mrs L no longer had mental 
capacity. 
Miss L doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
She has made a number of submissions in response to the investigator and in her initial  
complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
the policy was mis-sold as it says it covers unlimited repairs to pipes and the 
restriction of cover was not clear. 
 She has had a power of attorney since 1999 and her mother was diagnosed with 
Alzheimers Disease in 2016. She had been running all her mothers affairs for some 
time but took over everything in 2016 after that diagnosis. Her mothers mental 
capacity has been impaired since 2016 and the assessment in July 2020 was just a 
confirmation of the worsening of the situation but is not relevant to this complaint. 
 The main crux of the complaint is not her mothers mental capacity but the 
misleading policy information. 
 This issue has made her worry about the arrangements she thought she had in 
place for her mother. Her mother is vulnerable and she had to rely on organisations 
following her instructions and being trustworthy and reliable. 
She has had to spend a lot of time on this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Before assessing the complaint, the investigator asked Miss L for proof that she had the right 
to represent her mother. I confirm I am satisfied that she does have the right to do so but for 
the sake of completeness, I will set out why. 
We cannot look at all complaints that are brought to us. The rules about which complaints 
we can look at are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. This 
includes that:
A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant  by a person authorised 
by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. It is immaterial whether the 
person authorised to act on behalf of an eligible complainant is himself an eligible 
complainant. DISP 2.7.2 
Mrs L is an eligible complainant as she is the customer of British Gas, which is a regulated 
insurance provider. In order to accept the complaint from Miss L brought on behalf of Mrs L, 
we need to either confirmation from Mrs L that she authorises this, or evidence that Miss L is 
authorised in law to do so.  
Miss L has provided evidence that she has a registered Power of Attorney for her mother 
and I am therefore satisfied that Miss L is authorised in law to bring the complaint on behalf 
of Mrs L. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy held by Mrs L covers repairs to the central heating system. Under the general
exclusions of the policy, it states: 
We wont repair or replace steel or iron pipes, except:
 Your water supply pipe from the boundary of your property to your home,
 Your gas supply pipe, from your meter to your boiler or appliance(s)
  And, your soil stack/vent pipe where these pipes are specifically covered by your 
agreement.
I have no reason to doubt the radiator pipe in question was steel, as no dispute has been 
raised about this. Given this, it seems to me the repair is excluded from cover, as the above 
term is sufficiently clear. 
As well as a full policy document, British Gas issued a product information document to   
Mrs L, which set out a summary of the main terms of the policy. The product information 
document says: 
This document provides a summary of the key information relating to this Homecare Four 
insurance policy. Complete pre-contractual and contractual information on the product is 
provided in the terms and conditions
What is insured?
Unlimited repairs to your gas central heating system
Replacement of parts that we cant repair (subject to terms and conditions).The document also lists the main exclusions to cover under the What is not insured? 
section. 
Mrs L says this is misleading, as it suggests that there are no restrictions on the repairs that 
will be carried out under the policy, and therefore the work needed should have been 
covered. 
I dont think the product information document can reasonably be read as meaning there 
would not be any restriction on cover. While British Gas could perhaps have added the 
specific exclusion of steel pipes in the summary information, I do not think that this is so 
misleading that it would be fair to require British Gas to disregard the policy exclusion.  
I have also not seen any evidence that Mrs L relied on any understanding due to this 
document that steel pipes would be covered, when she bought the policy. Therefore her 
position has not been prejudiced by the exclusion of steel pipes not being mentioned in the 
product information document. 
Miss L also says that even if the claim was rightly not covered under the policy, her mother 
should not have been allowed to authorise the work. She says she has had a Power of 
Attorney in place since 1999 and British Gas has been aware of this since 2015. Miss L says 
her mothers mental capacity was impaired, she already had a power of attorney in place 
and was handling her affairs, so she should have been contacted to discuss the work 
required in January 2019. 
The investigator said there was no evidence Mrs L didnt have sufficient mental capacity in 
January 2019, as it was only the assessment in 2020 which said Mrs L now lacks mental 
capacity to deal with her complex financial affairs. Miss L says this was just a development 
of her mothers condition and her mothers mental capacity has been impaired for some 
years, which is why she should not have been asked to authorise this work.
Miss L has provided a copy of the letter she sent British Gas on 25 February 2015 which 
enclosed a copy of the power of attorney. The letter she explains Mrs L is still of sound mind 
but is finding day to day administration too difficult and her memory is now very poor. 
I do not agree that this would have meant British Gas should not have accepted instructions 
from Mrs L. The letter states Mrs L was still mentally capable.
And there is no convincing evidence that any lack of mental capacity should have been 
apparent to British Gas at any point between that date and the date of the repairs.  
Mrs L was assessed by her GP who said that as of June 2020 It was clear that your ability 
to weigh up the risks and benefits of certain actions regarding [your affairs]  was not as 
good as it would have been in the past. Your ability to communicate your wishes is very 
good. Overall, I felt your capacity to manage the complexities of all your financial affairs is 
impaired. 
As Miss L says this was a development of her mothers condition but this doesnt establish 
that British Gas did anything wrong in discussing the repairs with Mrs L or getting her 
authorisation for the works in January 2019. Mrs L might have had impaired capacity but 
theres no evidence this was to such an extent that it should have been apparent to British 
Gas and that it should not have acted in the way it did.  
In addition, I note that Miss L told the investigator that if British Gas had discussed the 
matter with her she probably would have agreed to the work in any event. Given that she 
lives some distance from her mother, and the relative low cost of the work, it seems likely to 
me Miss L would have authorised British Gas to go ahead with the work. Therefore it would 
not have made any difference to the overall position, even if British Gas had discussed this with Miss L. Given this, even if I thought British Gas should have discussed it with Miss L 
(which I dont for the reasons set out above) I would not require British Gas to reimburse the 
cost of the work. 
Miss L has also asked for a punitive compensatory award against British Gas. I have no 
power to make a punitive award. I can only make an award for financial loss caused to a 
consumer and/or compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused, by something the 
business has done wrong. In this instance the cost of the work was rightly charged and I do 
not consider British Gas has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so there is no appropriate 
award for me to make. 
I note Miss L says she has been put to trouble in bringing this complaint but, as she is not 
the customer of British Gas in this instance, I cannot make an award for any inconvenience 
she may have suffered (even if I thought some were warranted, which I dont).
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L, on behalf 
of Mrs L, to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman