DRN-3621409
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly declined his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr R submitted three applications for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 to NatWest between 
21 January and 10 March 2021. NatWest declined each of them on the basis that it couldnt 
see Mr Rs business had been trading on 1 March 2020, as required under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme eligibility criteria.
Mr R challenged NatWests decision, ultimately leading to this complaint. He provided some 
information to NatWest, including bank statements and utility bills, that he believed 
demonstrated his eligibility for the loan. But the bank maintained its position, so he referred 
the matter to us.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint but didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong. He said that the application had failed the banks checks. And having looked 
at the information on which NatWest made its decision, he thought it was reasonable  
highlighting in particular that Mr R had declared an annual turnover of £227,000, for which 
there was little supporting evidence.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said that his business hadnt been trading for a 
full year when he applied for the loan, so he gave a projected figure. So he asked that the 
complaint be escalated for review, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in declining Mr Rs applications for 
a Bounce Back Loan.
One of the core eligibility requirements for a Bounce Back Loan was that the business was 
engaged in trading on 1 March 2020. NatWest wasnt satisfied that Mr Rs business met this 
requirement and I think that conclusion was reasonable in light of the information it received, 
which was very limited. There was no trading activity running through accounts held with 
NatWest. Mr R provided statements for accounts he held elsewhere, but these dont show 
any activity  prior to 1 March 2020  that might be readily be identified as trading by the 
applicant business either. 
Mr R has highlighted particular transactions in March 2020 on one statement, but these were 
carried out after 1 March 2020. In any event, there is nothing to show that they are 
transactions on behalf of the business in question (as opposed, for example, to a personal 
payment). And while the utility bill that Mr R provided does predate 1 March 2020, this 
doesnt show the business was actually carrying out any trading.
Even if I were to accept that Mr R was trading on 1 March 2020, there is similarly little 
evidence to support the turnover figure he declared when applying (which was £230,000 in 
the first two requests, before being reduced slightly to £227,000 on the third attempt). This 
was significant as applicants could borrow up to 25% of their turnover  so to obtain the 
requested loan of £50,000, Mr R needed to have a turnover of at least £200,000. But there is 
little evidence of any turnover prior to the application. And while I accept Mr R may have 
used an estimate  as permitted for businesses established after 1 January 2019  lenders 
werent obliged to simply accept any figure an applicant provided. With nothing to support 
this projection, this wouldve been further grounds for NatWest to decline Mr Rs request.
I understand Mr R is also unhappy at the time it took NatWest to assess his applications 
and, in particular, his appeal  as, by the time he received the banks view on the further 
information he submitted, the Scheme had closed to new applications. But NatWest 
confirmed it had declined Mr Rs last application on 16 March 2021, from which point he was 
free to apply elsewhere if he wished. He chose to continue to pursue matters with NatWest, 
and I think the bank dealt with his follow-up queries within a reasonable period of time in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman