DRN-3678778
The complaint
Mr R complains Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) unfairly blocked his credit 
card account while on holiday, because he refused to answer unreasonable security 
questions. 
What happened
Mr R says while on holiday overseas, in late April 2022 he attempted an online purchase 
using his credit card, but the transaction was blocked by Creation. Mr R says he then rang 
Creation for the block to be removed and answered various security questions, but he 
refused to answer further questions of a personal nature. Creation then refused to unblock 
the credit card account, until he spoke to its fraud department. Mr R says he couldnt speak 
to the fraud department that day as it was closed, so he had to call them the following day 
after the bank holiday before Creation agreed to unblock his credit card account.  
Mr R didnt feel it was appropriate for Creation to ask personal questions about other 
members of his household as part of its security checks and is looking for it to pay him £100 
for the inconvenience it has caused him. 
Creation says it acted within its process and procedures when asking Mr R the security 
questions it did, to unblock the credit card account. Creation says the credit card was 
unblocked when he spoke to the fraud team after the bank holiday, a few days later. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Creations response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Creation had acted reasonably when it asked Mr R the security questions it 
did, to prevent a potential fraud on the credit card account. The investigator says if Mr R had 
answered the questions, his credit card account would have been unblocked at that time. 
The investigator didnt feel Creation had done anything wrong. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr R while overseas on holiday, to have 
an online credit card transaction declined and then to be asked, what he felt were 
unreasonable personal questions before the card was unblocked. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Creation acted unreasonably when it asked 
Mr R a series of security questions before it would agree to unblock his credit card account. 
What happened here is Mr R attempted an online credit card purchase while overseas on 
holiday and it was blocked by Creation. Mr R is unhappy that Creation refused to remove the 
block on his credit card unless he answered what he felt were intrusive questions about 
other household members. Mr R is also unhappy that he had to wait until a day after the 
bank holiday before his credit card was finally unblocked. 
While I understand the points Mr R has made Im not fully persuaded by his argument. 
I say this because while Mr R may not agree, its not for this service to tell Creation what the 
nature of the security questions should be  if Mr R is unhappy with the security questions 
posed by Creation, then that would potentially be something for the Information 
Commissioners Office to consider. 
What I would say is Creation asked Mr R questions in line with its standard process and 
procedures here and its not for me to say it cant. Its worth saying these practices are 
carried out to protect both businesses and consumers alike and its not unreasonable for 
Creation to need to be fully satisfied as to the identity of the caller, in circumstances like this. 
While Mr R wasnt happy that he had to wait a further day before his credit card was 
unblocked, I am satisfied this delay was unavoidable given unfortunately, this happened over 
a bank holiday weekend. Its fair to say the delay only happened here as Mr R refused to 
answer the security questions when asked. 
With that in mind I cant say Creation have done anything wrong here. While Mr R will be 
disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman