DRN-2924529
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) took longer than what he considered a 
reasonable amount of time to process his new mortgage application. Hes also unhappy that 
he was incorrectly told he had the facility to draw down money from his new mortgage. 
What happened
Mr W had a flexible offset mortgage with Santander  a feature of it was that he could 
draw down funds. 
Mr W subsequently applied to switch to a fixed-rate mortgage  he wanted to extend 
the term of his mortgage in order to reduce his monthly repayments. 
Mr Ws new mortgage application took place over the phone. He received the 
mortgage offer a few weeks later. 
The mortgage offer was valid until 17 December 2020, but Mr W says he received it 
on 18 December 2020. 
He posted his acceptance of the offer to Santander the same day.
Santander received it on 31 December 2020.
On 4 January 2021, Mr W called Santander to see if he could request a draw down of 
funds  Santanders adviser said he could. 
Mr W attempted to withdraw funds the next day but couldnt. He said it caused him 
embarrassment as hed agreed to building work commencing in the belief he could 
access funds to pay for the work. Mr W complained to Santander.
Santander apologised for its mistake. It explained as Mr Ws mortgage had been 
converted to the new rate, the available funds had been removed as he was no 
longer on the flexible offset mortgage. 
It offered £250 compensation to reflect the difficulties Mr W had experienced. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. While he acknowledged Santander had 
made a mistake, he couldnt ask it allow Mr W to draw down money as this isnt a 
feature of his new mortgage.  He thought the £250 compensation offered by 
Santander was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. There appears to be two aspects to 
Mr Ws complaint, so Ill address each in turn. 
Post timescales
The first concerns the delays in post being processed. Mr W is unhappy that he received his 
mortgage offer after the offer expiry date, and that it took Santander almost two weeks to 
receive his acceptance of the mortgage. 
Understandably, once Mr W had made the decision (and had his application accepted) that 
he wanted to move to a fixed rate mortgage, he wanted the application process to proceed 
as quickly as possible. However, when deciding whether Santander took an unreasonable 
amount of time to process his application and post, I must keep in mind that this was against 
the backdrop of the pandemic. And as is well known, postal services were greatly affected 
as a result of it. 
There would have also been Christmas post and the bank holidays around the time 
Santander and Mr W were corresponding, which would have impacted how quickly post was 
processed. 
I can also see that the mortgage offer was dated 3 December 2020 which suggests 
Santander progressed Mr Ws mortgage transfer in a timely manner. Ive not seen enough 
evidence to suggest the delays were as a result of Santanders handling of the mortgage 
transfer and think it more likely the delays were attributable to external factors, which Ive 
detailed. 
Mr W has suggested that if his application was processed quicker, he wouldnt have had to 
make a larger payment in January 2021, as the new mortgage rate would have started. 
Our investigator explained that as Mr Ws mortgage is paid a month in arrears, even if it had 
been processed the day Santander received his acceptance, the larger payment would have 
been owed regardless  and I agree. The payment taken in January 2021, covered the 
period from 6 December 2020 to 5 January 2021  and so even if the application had been 
processed in mid-December 2020, Mr W would have still been required to make the larger 
payment under his old mortgage agreement. So, Im satisfied he hasnt suffered financial 
detriment. 
Draw down facility
Santander has apologised for the fact it incorrectly told Mr W during a call he could request a 
draw down prior to the new mortgage rate being implemented. In deciding whether the 
compensation offered by Santander is fair, Ive thought about the impact its mistake had on 
Mr W.
I understand that Mr W agreed to building work commencing in the belief he could access 
his available funds, and that he felt embarrassed when he couldnt pay the builder on time. 
While Mr W was able to pay the builder a week later than planned  thanks to the builders 
goodwill - I appreciate this put him in an awkward position. 
I have to also balance the impact of Santanders error with the fact it corrected itself the next 
day, offered for Mr W to continue his payment holiday (account notes suggest he did this), 
apologised for its mistake and offered compensation. In addition, Mr W has told us that he 
knew the draw down facility had been removed as Santander had told him this prior to his 
request to do so. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied £250 fairly reflects the inconvenience and 
embarrassment Mr W was caused, and so I wont be asking Santander to increase its offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman