DRN-2831876
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
when she made a claim under her home emergency insurance policy.
Mrs C is represented in this complaint by her husband but, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs C 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs C holds a Home Care policy with British Gas that includes cover for repairs in the event 
of breakdown or damage to her boiler. In October 2020 she called British Gas as there was 
a leak in the expansion vessel on top of the hot water tank. By that time, shed turned the 
water off. British Gas arranged for an engineer to visit and they attended later that day. The 
engineer didnt have a replacement part so returned the next morning to fit the new part. 
Mrs C called British Gas after the engineer left to say there was still a leak. She wanted the 
same engineer to return but British Gas said shed have to wait for another call out. An 
engineer returned later the same day but found no leak. 
Mrs C complained to British Gas about the difficulty she had trying to speak to one of its 
advisers when the initial leak had meant water was escaping at high velocity and she didnt 
have anyone to tell them what to do. She said she tried five different telephone numbers but 
all were automated and it was fortunate a neighbour had helped them turn the water off. She 
said if shed been able to speak to someone at British Gas sooner, it would have saved a lot 
of time and effort. She said they spent well over £1,000 repairing the damage. Mrs C said 
she had to wait seven hours for an engineer to arrive, who then had to return the next day to 
complete the repair. She was also unhappy with other aspects of the service provided by 
British Gas when responding to her claim, including not being able to call its engineers 
directly instead of having to arrange another call out.
British Gas said it couldnt comment on why Mrs C had problems getting through to an 
adviser as shed not been able to provide the numbers shed called. It said the number to 
dial was the one given on the back of the terms and conditions shed been given and 
although theres an automated system to start with, it then puts the caller through to an 
adviser to report a leak. British Gas replied to the other issues raised and while it thought its 
engineers had attended in reasonable timescales, it offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill for 
any inconvenience caused. 
Mrs C remained unhappy, not only with British Gass response to her claim but with the way 
it had handled her complaint. She said shed written directly to the CEO of British Gas but 
still had to prompt the complaints team twice for a response. 
Our investigator didnt think British Gas needed to do anything more. She said it had 
arranged for an engineer to attend as soon as possible and within the terms of the 
agreement it had with Mrs C. She said this service couldnt tell British Gas to change its 
automated phone services or to suggest its engineers provide customers with their contact 
details. Those were matters for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our investigator 
agreed that British Gas didnt respond to all the issues Mrs C had raised when it first replied 
to her complaint and didnt clarify its timescales when it acknowledged her initial complaint. 
But she felt the £50 offered by British Gas was a fair way of compensating her for the impact 
of those failings.
As Mrs C remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs main concern is that she called five different numbers before she got through to an 
adviser at British Gas. Its clear shes frustrated by the automated nature of those telephone 
lines and the time it takes to speak to an individual. She doesnt think thats appropriate in 
times of emergency like the one she faced. 
As our investigator said, this service cant ask businesses to change the way they choose to 
interact with their customers. So, while I can understand Mrs Cs frustration with the time it 
took to get through to an adviser due to the automated nature of the phone system it uses, I 
cant ask British Gas to change that system. That would be a matter for the FCA. My role 
here is to decide whether British Gas treated Mrs C fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. And I think it did. Let me explain why.
The last page of the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs Home Care policy sets out how to 
make a claim and says the quickest and easiest way of contacting British Gas is to use its 
website or its app. But it also gives a telephone number as an alternative. The same number 
is given in the documentation sent to Mrs C when she renewed her insurance. So, Im 
satisfied she was given the correct number to call in an emergency. 
When calling that number, theres an automated process to go through. Its purpose is to 
direct the caller to the adviser who can best help with the issue at hand. Once the right 
option has been selected, the caller is put through to the relevant adviser. I can understand 
why Mrs C was upset about the time it took to get through to an adviser but once she called 
the right number she was able to speak to someone who could help her and arrange a visit 
by an engineer. 
Mrs C believes she might have been able to avoid some of the damage caused by the leak 
had she been able to speak to someone sooner, i.e. when she called five different numbers. 
But she couldnt provide details of the numbers she called before she spoke to an adviser. 
So, I dont think it was unfair for British Gas to say it couldnt investigate that matter any 
further. And, as Ive said, she had also been given the correct number to call in an 
emergency. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs cover says that British Gas isnt responsible for any loss 
or damage to property caused by an escape of water, unless British Gas caused it. Theres 
no suggestion British Gas caused the escape of water and the water had been turned off 
and the damage contained by the time Mrs C spoke to one of its advisers. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask British Gas to pay for the damage caused to Mrs Cs property by the 
escape of water. 
Mrs C was also unhappy with the time it took for an engineer to arrive. The terms and 
conditions of her policy says itll carry out any repairs or visits within a reasonable time. 
Mrs C was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with an incident of 
this nature, particularly at the time of year these events took place when demand for the 
service is reasonably high. But an engineer arrived at her property on the same day British Gas was notified of the leak and I think thats a reasonable time period in the circumstances. 
Its unfortunate the engineer didnt have the right part and needed to order one, which meant 
Mrs C was without hot water for a while longer. But British Gas explained that engineers 
wont have every part necessary in their vans and will often need to order the relevant part. 
And I think thats a fair explanation. I note the engineer was able to return the next morning, 
which again I think is a reasonable time period.
Shortly after the engineer left the next morning, Mrs C noticed a small leak and wanted the 
engineer to return. She was frustrated she had to arrange another call out and thought 
British Gas should give her the engineers personal telephone number to allow her to call 
him directly. British Gas said its not practical for its engineers to give their number to every 
customer they visit and I can understand why that might be. As it said, engineers will be 
scheduled to attend a number of emergencies in a day and I dont think it would be fair to 
those other customers to re-route them away from those visits.  
As for the way British Gas handled Mrs Cs complaint, I agree with our investigator that it 
could have been slightly better. It didnt explain its timescales very clearly and it didnt reply 
to all of the issues Mrs C raised in its initial response, although it did so later. That would 
have caused some inconvenience and frustration to Mrs C but I dont think British Gas needs 
to do anything more. Its already paid Mrs C £50 as a gesture of goodwill and I think thats a 
fair way of compensating her for that inconvenience.  
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mrs C experienced but, for the reasons given, I dont 
think British Gas needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already paid £50 to settle the complaint and I think this 
amount is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman