DRN-2380351
The complaint
Mr H and his wife, Mrs M, complain that Skipton Building Society failed to tell them that it 
had reduced the interest rate on their accounts. They also complain that branch staff refused 
to serve Mr M and were rude to both of them.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr H and Mrs M discovered that Skipton had reduced their interest rates 
in September. They complain that they were not told this at the time, and they want to be 
paid the old interest rate from September 2019.
They went into their local branch to open new accounts with better interest rates. Mr H 
arrived first, and since he wanted to open a sole account for himself, as well as a joint 
account with his wife, he asked to be seen on his own while his wife (who was nearby) was 
on her way. But the branch manager told him to wait for his wife, and directed him to the 
waiting area, which Mr H found to be condescending, since it was obvious where it was. He 
complains about being asked to wait, because his wife didnt need to be there for him to 
open a sole account, and he complains about the way he was spoken to, which he says was 
rude. Mrs M also says that the manager was rude when she spoke to him later, and she also 
complained that a cashier had asked her about a large transaction on her account.
Skipton said it had written to Mr H in September and given him two weeks notice about the 
interest rate changes. This letter had invited him to get in touch if he was interested in 
getting a better rate. Mr H said he had not received that letter, but Skipton said that was not 
its fault but the mails. Skipton also said that Mr H had opted out of receiving marketing 
information, so that was why he had not been pro-actively told about other products with 
better interest rates. It said its staff were trained to ask customers about large transactions 
as a measure to protect their accounts.
Nevertheless, Skipton apologised and offered Mr H and Mrs M £100 for a delay in opening 
an account, and for their overall experience.
Being dissatisfied with that offer, Mr H and Mrs M brought this complaint to our Service. But 
our investigator did not uphold it. He thought there was not enough evidence to decide 
whether the manager had been rude, and that Skipton had done nothing else wrong. So he 
concluded that £100 was a fair offer. Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Skiptons letter, dated 2 September 2019, about interest rates. It is addressed to 
Mr H at the correct address, and I accept that it was sent. I also accept that Mr H did not 
receive it, but that is not the building societys fault. It complies with the requirement in 
Skiptons terms and conditions to give 14 days notice of a change in interest rates. It does 
not list other products with better interest rates, but I dont think it needed to. It was enough 
to tell Mr H that he could get in touch and ask about this if he wished. (I am reinforced in that 
view by the fact that Mr H had opted out of receiving marketing letters and emails.)
I can see Mr Hs point that there was no need to keep him waiting for his wife when he could 
have opened a new sole account in the meantime, and then opened the joint account when 
she arrived (or waited for her if she had still not arrived by then). However, I also dont think 
it is unreasonable of a building society (or any other business) to ask a customer to wait for a 
few minutes either. Its a shame that the manager came across as condescending when he 
showed Mr M to the waiting area, but its unlikely that he meant to, so I think the 
compensation offered by Skipton is fair and I wont increase it.
The £100 is also compensation for a slight delay in opening an account once Mrs M had 
arrived, since the computer apparently reset itself and the cashier (who was inexperienced) 
had to start again. That is unfortunate, but not serious, and I think it is just one of those 
things. I would not have awarded compensation just for that issue on its own, but taken 
together with the rest of this case, I think that Skiptons offer is fair overall.
I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint about being asked about a transaction for a five-figure 
sum of money. Financial institutions are required by law to have measures to prevent fraud, 
money laundering, and exploitation of its customers, and sometimes that involves asking 
questions like this one. I appreciate that the question may have come as an unwelcome one, 
but that cant be helped, and I dont want to risk giving mixed messages to Skipton by 
upholding a complaint about this issue. Skipton was entirely within its rights to ask.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I leave it to Mr H and Mrs M to decide 
whether to accept Skipton Building Societys offer of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman