DRN-3596748
The complaint
On behalf of  Mr G, Mrs G says Admiral Insurance Company Limited treated him unfairly 
after being told his car had been involved in a non-fault incident. 
What happened
Mr Gs car is insured as part of a multi-car policy with Admiral. Mrs G says hed parked his 
car legally on the roadside, and that in his absence another driver damaged it slightly. The 
other driver accepted full blame for the accident and paid for the repair, so Mr G didnt make 
a claim on his policy. At renewal Mrs G mentioned the incident to Admiral and was advised 
that the premium would rise. Mrs G and Mr G dont accept that a driver who has left a car 
parked and unattended in a safe place presents a greater risk to an insurer, especially when 
the driver who damaged the unattended car accepts full responsibility.
Admiral said its research shows that a driver who has been involved in any non-fault incident 
is more likely to go on to have an incident for which they are at fault than a driver who hasnt 
been involved in a non-fault incident. Mrs M thought that may be true if the non-fault driver 
was driving at the time of the accident, but not if they were nowhere near the scene.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint. He said Admiral had shown that it had 
acted fairly in following its underwriting rules. He said it had the right to decide what to 
charge consumers based on its assessment of risk, as long as all customers were treated 
the same in similar circumstances. And he pointed out that Mr G didnt have to accept the 
renewal premium. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs G and Mr G think Admiral has acted unfairly. Many consumers dont 
think its reasonable for insurers to increase their premiums if theyre involved in a non-fault 
incident, for which another driver has taken full responsibility. But most insurers think a driver 
presents a greater risk if his or her car has been involved in a non-fault accident. They base 
premium prices partly on their accident and claims statistics, which feed into their 
assessment of future risk. We arent able to instruct insurers how to assess or interpret risk 
or what to charge consumers in particular circumstances. We can only say whether an 
insurer has acted reasonably and appears to have treated a consumer fairly.  
Mrs M thinks a distinction should be made between consumers who are driving when a non-
fault accident happens, and those who arent. She thinks if a driver is present, they may 
have contributed to the accident. But Mr G wasnt in the car - having left it legally parked. 
Mrs G says as he could even have been abroad at the time, theres no basis for Admiral to 
say he presents a greater risk.  
I agree that in some cases a driver who is held not to be at fault may have contributed in a 
small way to the non-fault accident. But in many other cases, a consumer will be driving 
perfectly safely when a careless or reckless driver causes damage to their car and admits it. 
If the non-fault driver couldnt have avoided the accident, in my opinion, that driver would be 
no more at fault than Mr G.  
Admiral has shown us evidence that it charges for all non-fault accidents. We asked recently 
whether it differentiates between types of non-fault accident. Admiral said it knows that 
consumers who arent present when damage is caused to their car by another driver think 
its particularly unfair that their premium should increase. The specific details Admiral has 
provided are commercially sensitive, so they cant be shared. But I can confirm that Admiral 
has shown it treats drivers who are involved in non-fault incidents and arent present at the 
time more favourably in terms of pricing than it does other non-fault drivers. 
As the risk assessment Admiral carries out applies to all consumers who have a policy with 
it, in my opinion Admiral hasnt treated  Mr G any differently than it would treat other 
customers in similar circumstances. Admirals pricing team has explained that prices are 
based on extensive, ongoing research of claims and accident statistics - and it wouldnt be in 
its interests to overcharge consumers, who dont have to accept a renewal premium they 
consider unreasonable. I know Mrs G thinks thats irrelevant, but Admiral knows its always 
an option for a consumer to try to find an insurer offering a similar policy that doesnt charge 
for non-fault incidents, or charges less.
Mrs G and Mr G feel strongly about this issue  as do many other consumers. Whilst I 
understand their viewpoint, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Admiral has acted 
unreasonably towards Mr G, and I cant uphold his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman