DRN-2622515
The complaint
Mr L complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited didnt treat him fairly while he was struggling 
to repay the arrears on his account.
What happened
Mr L entered into a 48 month conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in June 2013 to 
acquire a used car. He says that the car needed expensive repairs over a two month period 
with the total cost being over £2,000. He says this caused him to fall behind with his 
payments and that Moneybarn didnt treat him fairly at this time. He says he was required to 
make unrealistic payments to pay off the arrears. He couldnt afford these, and the car was 
repossessed leaving him unable to work.
Mr L noted that Moneybarn had been investigated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and fined due to how it had dealt with customers struggling to pay arrears on their accounts. 
He thought he should have been part of this investigation and compensated accordingly.
Moneybarn says it kept Mr L informed of the situation on his account throughout his 
agreement and that it tried to work with him when he fell behind with his payments. It issued 
a final response letter to Mr L dated April 2020. It said that Mr L wasnt included in the group 
of customers that were affected by the issues the FCA was investigating.
Moneybarn said that Mr L had missed a series of payments on his account. In 2017 it says it 
carried out an income and expenditure assessment to set up a payment plan to assist him. 
However, as the payments werent maintained it issued a default notice in March 2017 which 
said Mr L needed to pay the full amount of the arrears by a certain date. Mr L contacted 
Moneybarn on 16 March saying he wished to settle the agreement. Mr L was told about the 
expiry of the default notice and given his exit options. A further discussion took place on 
24 March when Moneybarn says Mr L was told that if he didnt exercise an exit option or 
satisfy the default notice his agreement would be terminated.
Mr Ls agreement was terminated on 29 March 2017. Mr L contacted Moneybarn to ask for 
time to try to part exchange the car. He was given two weeks as a gesture of goodwill, but 
the settlement amount wasnt paid. The possibility of a Consent Order was considered but 
this wasnt progressed, and Mr L was told on 12 July 2017 that Moneybarn wouldnt hold his 
account for any longer and he would receive confirmation of his final balance once the car 
had been sold. The final billing letter was sent dated 9 August 2017 with an outstanding 
balance of £1,655.25. Mr Ls account was then transferred to a debt management company.
Our investigator thought that Moneybarn had tried to work with Mr L when he told it of his 
financial difficulties. However, she thought that Mr L was due an interest rebate on the 
agreement due to it ending early and this should be offset against his outstanding balance.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. He said he only accepted the payment plan 
amounts as he needed to keep the car and that further checks should have taken place to 
ensure the payments were affordable. He said he received lots of calls and was pressurised 
into making the unaffordable payments. Mr L says Moneybarn didnt help him and he feels 
that the outstanding debt should be written off. He also said that the repairs were for a 
known problem with the car.
Moneybarn said that the sale of the car took place in August 2017, after the term of the 
original conditional sale agreement had ended and so there was no interest rebate due.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr L experienced issues making his payments before he contacted Moneybarn in 
October 2016. Moneybarn had sent him letters about the outstanding payments and 
arrears and I found Mr L was provided with the information he needed to understand 
how to bring his account up to date and the consequences of not doing so.
When Mr L contacted Moneybarn in October 2016, about not being able to make his 
payment due to needing to pay for repairs, Moneybarn tried to work with him by 
asking him to send the repair invoice and then trying to contact him before taking any 
further action. As contact wasnt made I didnt find that Moneybarn did anything 
wrong by sending out a default notice.
Mr L contacted Moneybarn on 7 November. Moneybarn tried to assist him by setting 
up payment plans. Mr Ls statement of account showed that larger payment amounts 
were set up to clear the arrears, but Mr L continued to experience issues maintaining 
his payments.
In early 2017, Mr L had a further repair cost. Moneybarn carried out an income and 
expenditure assessment. While I noted Mr Ls comments about the information 
included I thought Moneybarn had acted reasonably and tried to assist Mr L by 
setting up the payment plan at that time to try to clear the arrears.
Mr L didnt maintain the payment plan and a further default notice was issued on 
6 March 2017. Given the situation on Mr Ls account and his history of missed 
payments and issues maintaining the payment plan, I found it was reasonable that a 
default notice was issued.
Mr L contacted Moneybarn in March 2017 to discuss his options. He was provided 
with the early exit options in a communication dated 17 March 2017. Mr L didnt 
make the payments due under the default notice or exercise his early exit options 
and his agreement was terminated on 29 March 2017. Given the circumstances I 
didnt think that Moneybarn did anything wrong by terminating Mr Ls agreement at 
that time.
Mr L asked for more time to consider a part exchange of the car and two weeks was 
agreed. No payment was received. In July 2017 Mr L was told that his car would be 
sold, and the proceeds set against his outstanding balance. I understood that this left 
Mr L without a car but given the time that had passed since the agreement had been 
terminated I thought it fair that this matter was brought to a close.
The sale proceeds were not enough to clear Mr Ls outstanding balance and so Mr L 
was liable for the remaining balance. The agreement was due to end around June 
2017 and was terminated before this. In the default notice dated March 2017, there 
was reference to an interest rebate of £3.47 that would reduce if the balance wasnt 
paid by the required date. The balance wasnt paid at that time and there was a period of a few months while further action wasnt taken. The car was sold in August 
2017 after the agreement would have ended had it not been terminated. Based on 
the evidence provided I didnt think I could say that the amount Moneybarn had 
calculated as the outstanding balance was incorrect.
Overall, while I understood the issues Mr L had raised, I thought that Moneybarn had tried to 
work with him when he experienced issues maintaining his payments and when he asked for 
further time after the agreement had been terminated. I agreed that Mr L remained liable for 
the outstanding balance, which had been transferred to a debt management company.  
Neither party provided any further information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in 2013 to acquire a used 
car. His complaint is about how he was treated when he fell behind with his payments due to 
having to spend around £2,000 on repairs. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I find that Moneybarn did try to work with Mr L when 
he was experiencing difficulties making his payments. It carried out an income and 
expenditure assessment and set up payment plans. However as these werent maintained I 
do not find that Moneybarn did anything wrong by terminating Mr Ls agreement and then, 
after an extended period, selling the car. I do not find I have evidence to say the outstanding 
balance on Mr Ls account is incorrect.
I understand the outstanding balance has been transferred to a debt management company. 
Given the issues Mr L has raised we would expect him to be treated positively and 
sympathetically regarding the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman