DRN-3281023
The complaint
Miss D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2017, Miss D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Miss D decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In May 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Miss Ds behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Miss D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as its cash price (£8,818) to mislead 
Miss D, as when the interest was added the total cost was actually £16,746;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss D or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Miss D the whole of the quotation document on 
which the adjudicator had relied before she signed it;
being satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Miss D had not 
thought it necessary to rely on the quotation;
although the quote had been posted to her after the sales meeting, Miss D could not 
remember when that had been;
a contemporaneous (August 2017) email from Miss D to her mortgage provider 
demonstrates that she had carried out her own calculations and had believed that the 
system would pay for itself from the beginning of the loan period;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Miss D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss D could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss D 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation, 
and Miss Ds 2017 email to her mortgage provider about the Shawbrook loan. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Miss Ds recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Miss D agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Miss D simply took the 
salesmans word for it when she was told that she could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing her a penny, without at 
any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. So on the balance of probabilities, 
I am satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Miss D 
agreed to enter into the contract.
I am reinforced in that view by Miss Ds email to her mortgage provider, sent 12 days after 
the sales meeting, in which she wrote: I've done the sums and the repayments for the finance would be offset from the money the solar panels make. Its likely that she would 
have referred to the written quote for the figures on which she based her sums, rather than 
relying on her memory of a conversation 12 days earlier. That is enough time for her copy of 
the quote to have been sent to her in the post.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Miss D makes it clear that the overall cost 
of the system is £16,746.40. This sets out a clear breakdown of the cash price, the amount 
of credit provided, the deposit, the total charge for credit and the total amount repayable.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due (as 
set out in the repayments table described below), Im satisfied that the two documents, the 
quote and the credit agreement, both together and separately made it clear that it would cost 
Miss D more than the cash price as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing 
loan.
FIT payments
Miss D has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Miss D has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss D could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss D could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £196.61.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss D could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £240.02 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Miss D, the combined income and savings in year one is shown 
as £526.63. This is shown in the first row of a table titled Putting it all together.
The second row of that table says that the total FIT income over 20 years would be £5,122, 
which is considerably less than the cash price of the system, which was £8,818.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Miss D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £94.23. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £92.48, but the difference  £2.25  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £94.23, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for the first 14 years of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money 
to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss D that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £2.25 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Miss D.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Miss D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 13 years for the overall benefits that Miss D could 
expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 13-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that by the end of year 19 the overall benefits that Miss D could expect 
to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£16,746. (Ill just show the rows for years 18 and 19.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss D that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 13 years, and for the loan in about 19 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,985 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss Ds FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,281 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Miss D hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss D could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss D entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss D to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman