DRN-3606301
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt transfer his cash ISA to another bank as 
requested and didnt provide him with an explanation as to why this hadnt happened.
What happened
Mr C wanted to transfer his cash ISA to another bank. In March 2022, Barclays received an 
electronic request from the other bank but says the date for the transfer fell outside of its 
limits and so the transfer was rejected. Mr C says that he had requested the transfer take 
place in March 2022 on the date the ISA matured, not a date in May as Barclays had stated.
Our investigator issued a view saying she didnt think that Barclays was wrong to reject the 
transfer based on the information it had provided about the timing and so she didnt 
recommend that Mr C was reimbursed any loss of interest. However, she didnt think 
Barclays had provided the service it should have noting that it was unable to answer Mr Cs 
initial questions about the transfer and didnt contact him as promised. She thought Mr C had 
been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience and recommended that Barclays pay 
him £100 because of this.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view. He raised a complaint with the bank which he 
had tried to transfer his ISA to and received a response saying that the details from Mr Cs 
request were extracted and provided electronically to Barclays with no manual input. It 
confirmed that Mr C had requested the funds be transferred after maturity / notice being 
served. It said this was the information provided to Barclays.
Our investigator provided this new information to Barclays. It still believed it had acted 
correctly but due to the conflicting findings it offered to cover the loss of three months worth 
of interest. 
Mr C accepted Barclays offer to cover the three months of interest but said that given the 
additional time he had spent raising a complaint with another bank he thought the amount of 
compensation should be increased from £100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is upset by the service he received when trying to transfer his 
ISA funds. This should have been a straightforward process but instead his transfer was 
rejected, and he was then caused distress and inconvenience trying to understand what had 
gone wrong.
The evidence provided in this case is conflicting but based on Mr Cs testimony and the 
comments about the information included in his transfer request form, I accept that Mr C had 
asked for his funds to be transferred on maturity. Information provided by Barclays shows 
that the maturity date stored was 17 March. So, while I note there was a further date of 27 
May recorded, it isnt clear where this came from, and based on the information provided by 
the receiving bank I think it reasonable to accept that the request was made for a transfer on 
maturity. It then took time for the issue with the transfer to be understood and Mr C says he 
lost out on three months of interest. On balance, given the evidence provided I find it fair that 
Barclays refunds the lost interest as it has offered. 
Our investigator noted the service issues that Mr C experienced when he was trying to 
understand the issue with his transfer, and she recommended that he be paid £100 
compensation. I can understand why Mr C thinks additional compensation should now be 
provided as he needed to raise a complaint with another bank to get further evidence 
regarding the date issue. However, in this case, I think the £100 recommended by our 
investigator is reasonable for the service issues Mr C experienced. While I appreciate Mr C 
raised a separate complaint, I also note that Barclays had investigated the issue and still 
believes it acted correctly. Therefore, while I note the additional time Mr C has spent on this 
issue, I think the offer of refunding his interest alongside the £100 compensation is a 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C the lost interest as it offered as well as £100 
compensation for the service issues Mr C experienced.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman