DRN-3062700
Complaint
Miss D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly increased the limit on 
her overdrafts. She says Lloyds ought to have realised she could afford to repay what she 
was being lent.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 13 September 2021
As I understand it Miss D initially had overdrafts with credit limits of £50 on two current 
accounts. The limit on account ending in 468 was increased to £1,000.00 in February 2017 
and in April 2017 the limit on Miss Ds other account ending in 760 was also increased to 
£1,000.00. In May 2017, the limit on both of Miss Ds accounts was increased to £2,000.00.
Lloyds didnt think that it had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Miss D remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong in relation to the overdraft on account ending 468. But she didnt think that 
Lloyds should have been provided the limit increases on account ending 760 to Miss D. So 
she partially upheld the complaint. Lloyds didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.
On 13 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on   
Miss Ds complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I referred to this when provisionally deciding Miss Ds 
complaint.
I then went on to explain that Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this meant was that Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Miss D would be able to repay what she was being lent before 
providing any credit to her. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a 
lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it 
does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I noted that Lloyds appeared to have placed significant weight on the limited income and 
expenditure information it took from Miss D and its credit checks when deciding to proceed 
with all of Miss Ds applications. Indeed, Lloyds final response said it agreed to Miss Ds 
requests on the basis that it was up to Miss D to make sure that everything on her 
applications was truthful and accurate.
I considered what Lloyds has said about the accuracy of the information Miss D provided. I 
assumed that Lloyds comments were made in relation to Miss Ds income declaration, as 
there wasnt any indication that the information provided in relation to housing was 
inaccurate and Lloyds appeared to have estimated Miss Ds other monthly expenditure.
I thought that it would be helpful for me to start by pointing out that CONC 5.3.1G(4), which 
was in place at the time of these increases, stated:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
So I simply didnt agree that it was solely Miss Ds responsibility to verify the accuracy of the 
information. Equally, I was mindful that CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
In this case, Miss Ds monthly income was recorded as being £1,400.00 at the time of the 
first increase on account ending 468 in February 2017, £1,300.00 at the time of the first 
increase on account ending 760 in April 2017 and £2,300.00 at the time of the limit increases 
to £2,000.00, on both accounts, in May 2017. In my view, it was clear that this information 
was at best inconsistent and I thought that Lloyds ought to have looked into these 
inconsistencies further. 
I said this especially as the expenditure figure arrived at suggested Miss D might have 
struggled to sustainably repay £4,000.00, within a reasonable period of time, if Miss Ds 
salary was at the lower end of the declarations. Additionally, the various industry codes of 
practice all suggested that repeated requests for additional borrowing, such as here, were a 
potential sign of financial difficulty. 
In these circumstances and as Miss Ds salary was, in any event, being paid into account 
ending 468, I thought that Lloyds ought to have verified Miss Ds income. And if Lloyds had 
done this Lloyds would have seen that Miss D was only earning between £1,300.00 and 
£1,400.00 a month  in other words the income information provided in February 2017 and 
April 2017 was accurate. The monthly expenditure Lloyds calculated for Miss D, which there 
was no basis for me to question given the rest of the information on file, was around 
£1,200.00 a month. 
On this basis, I was satisfied that the information Lloyds itself was in possession of showed 
that Miss D didnt have the disposable income to be able to sustainably repay the overdraft 
increases it provided on both accounts in May 2017.   
As this was the case, I provisionally found that Lloyds treated Miss D unfairly both when it 
increased the overdraft limit, on both of her accounts to £2,000.00 in May 2017. And as   
Miss D had to pay and was still being expected to pay additional interest and charges on 
credit she shouldnt have been provided with in the first place, I explained that I was 
intending to issue a final decision which found that Miss D lost out because of what Lloyds 
did wrong and that it needed to put things right.Lloyds response to my provisional decision
Lloyds confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. It said that although it disagreed with the 
findings and didnt explain why, it was nonetheless prepared to accept the 
recommendations. 
Miss Ds response to my provisional decision   
Miss D also confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. She confirmed that she her 
account had been passed to a third-party debt collector. She also asked for clarification on 
what Lloyds needed to do to put things right.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their further comments. I can confirm that Ive read and considered 
everything theyve said and provided. 
Although I am concerned that Lloyds disagreed with my findings without providing any 
reasons for doing so, I am nonetheless pleased to see that it has accepted my 
recommendations.
I also thank Miss D for confirming that her accounts were passed to a third-party. In terms of 
clarification of what Lloyds needs to do to put things right, it might help for me to explain that 
Lloyds effectively needs to make sure Miss D doesnt have to pay the interest, fees and 
charges added as a result of the limit increases it shouldnt have provided, from May 2017. 
But Miss D will need to pay back the extra money she spent though. And if removing all of 
the extra interest means that Miss D will owe nothing further, because shes already paid 
back the money she spent, then shell have no outstanding balance and all adverse 
information will be removed from her credit file. 
However, if Miss D is still left owing some of the funds she spent after Lloyds have credited 
her account with what it needs to, then Lloyds will need to amend Miss Ds credit file to 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective 
action on Miss Ds accounts from May 2017. 
I trust that this explains why there are two potential outcomes depending on the result of 
what any calculation shows. And I want to make it clear that there is a possibility Miss D may 
be left with a balance to repay and some adverse information on her credit file, as a result of 
her not having repaid the funds she was lent, even though her complaint has been upheld. 
Overall having considered the further points made in response to my provisional decision, 
Im still partially upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Miss D
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ds overdraft balance to ensure that from May 2017 interest is 
only charged on the first £1,000.00 of Miss Ds overdrafts, to reflect the fact that 
she shouldnt have been given the May 2017 increases. Lloyds froze all charges after Miss D got in contact to notify it of her difficulties, so it should also reflect 
this in any reworked balances; and
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdrafts once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss D to arrange suitable repayment plans for 
this. If Lloyds considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ds 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the accounts from May 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being outstanding balances, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balances remain after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give    
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Lloyds did sell the outstanding balances on these accounts to third-party debt purchasers, it 
will need to either buy the accounts back from the third-party concerned and make the 
necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Miss D an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision of 13 September 2021, Im 
upholding Miss Ds complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman