DRN-4018076
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt credit transfers into his account in a
timely manner which led to a delay in Mr B completing two property purchases.
What happened
Mr B, who resides overseas, travelled to the UK to arrange the purchase of two houses
which he intended to rent out. While in the UK, Mr B instructed two transfers from his
overseas bank account to his UK Nationwide account  of approximately £16,000 and
£18,000 respectively  which Mr B intended to use towards the property purchases.
However, a technical fault at Nationwide meant that these transfers werent received into Mr
Bs UK account when they should have been but were instead received approximately three
and a half weeks later. This meant that Mr B couldnt purchase or subsequently rent out the
properties when he wanted to, and that had to leave the UK before the property purchases
could be completed. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Bs complaint. They acknowledged that a fault with their systems
had caused the receipt of the transfers to be delayed, and they apologised to Mr B for this
and offered to pay £350 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have
incurred, as well as 8% simple interest on the transfer amounts for the time that the money
hadnt been available to Mr B. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that Nationwide should pay
8% interest on the transfer amounts but felt that Nationwide should increase their offer of
compensation to £500. Our investigator also said that Nationwide should reimburse Mr Bs
travel costs but didnt feel that Nationwide should compensate Mr B for loss of rental income
as he wanted. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 February as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to
declare that Nationwide have acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw way. Such 
declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit focussed on 
fairness of outcome as considered from an impartial perspective.
Nationwide dont dispute that an error with their systems caused the receipt of the 
overseas transfers into Mr Bs account to be delayed. What is in dispute here is what 
actions Nationwide should take regarding the delayed receipt of those transfer 
amounts by Mr B.
Its my understanding that Mr B feels Nationwide should reimburse him for the travel 
and holiday costs he incurred of £16,000  given that he wasnt able to complete the 
property purchases during his time in the UK  and for the loss of rental he incurred 
on both properties because of the delays in completion brought about by the delays 
in the receipt of the transfers. Mr B would also like Nationwide to reimburse him for 
the cost of calling the UK when he did have to return overseas before the purchases 
completed and doesnt feel that either the 8% interest or the £500 compensation 
amounts recommended by our investigator go far enough in addressing the impact of 
these events on him.
Considering the interest to be paid by Nationwide on the transfer amounts first, I can 
confirm that 8% is an industry standard amount which this service also uses. As 
such, Im satisfied that the payment of 8% annual interest by Nationwide on the 
transfer amounts, calculated daily and payable for the days that Mr B didnt 
reasonably have access to the transfer amounts, is a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
In consideration of Mr Bs request that Nationwide should reimburse him for his travel 
costs because he wasnt able to complete the purchase of the houses as he intended 
during his time in the UK, I dont feel that Nationwide should be instructed to 
reimburse these costs as Mr B would like.
This is because Mr B travelled to the UK on 7 May 2022, and then instructed the 
overseas transfers while already in the UK, on 19 May and 26 May respectively. As 
such, I dont feel that it can be reasonably said that Mr B wouldnt have incurred the 
costs of travelling to the UK if the transfers hadnt been delayed  as would need to 
be the case for me to consider instructing Nationwide to reimburse those costs  
because he was already in the UK when he instructed the transfers and had been for 
approximately two weeks.
However, while Im satisfied that Nationwide shouldnt fairly be instructed to 
reimburse Mr Bs travel costs to him, I do feel that Mr B should be compensated for 
not being able to achieve the completion of the property purchases while he was in 
the UK, and I will address this point later in this letter.
Similarly, I also dont feel that Nationwide should reasonably be instructed to make a
payment to Mr B for rental income losses as he claims. This is because for me to 
consider instructing such a payment, Id need to see evidence that rental agreements 
were in place for the time that Mr B is claiming for. But its my understanding that no 
such rental agreements were in place for that time, and that the properties were only 
marketed for rent after completion  which took place on 28 June 2022  and after 
the houses were decorated, with rental agreements being reached on 18 August and 
29 September 2022 respectively.
I hope Mr B will understand, given that no rental agreements were in place for the 
period of the transfer delays, why I dont feel that it can be guaranteed that he would 
have received rental income for the period which he is claiming, and therefore why I 
dont feel that Nationwide should fairly be instructed to reimburse him for those 
claimed losses.
What I do feel that Nationwide should reasonably be expected to reimburse Mr B for 
are the costs he incurred when calling the UK from overseas once he had left the UK. This is because, if Nationwide hadnt delayed the receipt of the transfers, then the 
house purchases would have been completed while Mr B was still in the UK, 
meaning he wouldnt have needed to incur the cost of calling the UK having returned 
overseas that he did.
However, to verify and calculate these costs, Mr B would need to provide an itemised 
phone bill so that the exact cost of the calls he made to the UK can be accurately 
demonstrated. As such, my provisional instruction to Nationwide here is that they 
must reimburse these costs to Mr B upon receipt of such an itemised telephone bill 
from Mr B, whereby the costs of each individual call can be seen and added up.
Finally, its unquestionably the case that Mr B has incurred upset, and inconvenience 
for which Im satisfied he should be compensated. This includes that Mr B couldnt 
complete the purchase of the houses while he was in the UK, and that he was 
worried for a time that the transferred money might not be available before the 
deadline for the completion of the property purchases, which meant he was for a time 
at risk of losing a sizable deposit.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but I feel that the £500 as recommended 
by our investigator is a fair amount here, and so Ill be provisionally instructing 
Nationwide to pay this amount to Mr B. In taking this position Ive considered the 
impact and effect that these events have had on Mr B, as hes described them to this 
service, as well as the outcome of those events  including, for instance, that Mr B 
did complete the property purchases on time  and the general framework which this 
service uses when considering awards for trouble and distress, further details of 
which can be found on this services website.
To summarise, my provisional instructions to Nationwide are that they must pay Mr B 
8% simple interest on the transfer amounts for the time that that the transfers were 
delayed and must also make a payment of £500 to Mr B as compensation for the 
trouble and upset hes incurred. Nationwide must also reimburse Mr B the costs of 
any calls to the UK he had to make following his return to his home overseas, on the 
condition that Mr B provides an itemised phone bill which would allow those costs to 
be isolated and calculated.
Mr B expressed his dissatisfaction with my provisional decision and felt it wasnt reasonable 
to expect him to provide copies of tenancy agreements to prove rental losses for properties 
he didnt own and was in the process of buying. 
I can appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling here, but its for the very reason  that Mr B was 
in the process of buying the properties and so didnt have tenants in place  that I dont feel 
its reasonable to award consequential loss as Mr B would like here. In short, this is because 
Mr B is assuming that the properties would have been let. And I wouldnt consider awarding 
consequential loss  which this service defines as a definite loss that can be directly 
attributed to the consequences of a business actions  on the basis of an assumption.
Mr B is also unhappy that I didnt provisionally instruct Nationwide to reimburse his travel 
costs to the UK. But Mr B was always going to come to the UK, and so I dont feel that 
Nationwide should fairly be asked to reimburse those costs as Mr B would like. 
The consequences of Nationwides actions here were that Mr B couldnt complete the 
property purchase while he was in the UK. So, it seems fair to me that Mr B should be 
compensated for the trouble and inconvenience he incurred while having to complete the 
property purchase having returned overseas. This is why Im instructing the £500 
compensation and reimbursement of itemised calls to the UK as I am. And while I appreciate that Mr B might like a larger amount of compensation to be instructed here, I continue to feel 
that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount, for the reasons previously explained.
Finally, Mr B has reiterated his position on several other aspects of his complaint but hasnt 
provided any new information regarding these points such that my position on them remains 
unchanged. 
All of which means I remain satisfied that the resolution I reached in my provisional decision 
is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I therefore confirm that my final decision 
is that I uphold this complaint in Mr Bs favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Nationwide must pay 8% simple interest on the transfer amounts for the time that that the 
transfers were delayed.
Nationwide must also make a payment of £500 to Mr B as compensation for the trouble and 
upset hes incurred here. 
Finally, Nationwide must reimburse Mr B the costs of any calls to the UK he had to make 
following his return to his home overseas - on the condition that Mr B provides an itemised 
phone bill which would allow those costs to be isolated and calculated.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman