DRN-3347986
The complaint
Mr T and Miss M have complained that the change in charging structure HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) has made has resulted in the cost of their overdraft increasing and that it failed to 
provide them with any alternative credit facilities.
What happened
Mr T and Miss M complained to HSBC about the change in its pricing structure of its 
overdrafts. They say the change in rate makes it more difficult for them to pay off their 
overdraft. They say HSBC shouldve provided them with alternatives to their overdraft. 
HSBC says the change in the rate was due to new government legislation and that its acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account but as a gesture of goodwill refunded 
£384.24 in charges. One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and eventually 
reached the conclusion HSBC hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr T and Miss M 
unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr T and Miss M disagreed and 
so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr T and Miss Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that part of the complaint is about the proportionality of the charges applied to Mr T 
and Miss Ms account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBC various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr T and Miss 
M if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr T and Miss Ms account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr T and Miss M 
were experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr T and Miss M 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr T and Miss M unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mr T and Miss Ms 
statements I cant see anything to suggest that HSBC ought to have realised they might 
have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr T and Miss M may argue their use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that they 
were struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over their 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were also regular deposits of salary and large cash transfers into and out of the 
account into a savings account and periods when there was a credit balance on the account. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr T and Miss M werent experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have 
alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the 
account didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of his seeing a credit balance 
at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr T and Miss Ms account was 
being used. 
I understand that Mr T and Miss M wouldve liked HSBC to provide them with an alternative 
credit facility with a better rate but before raising their complaint there is no evidence they 
ever contacted HSBC about this and  HSBC are under no obligation to provide this just as 
Mr T and Miss M are free to shop around if they arent happy with what is on offer.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC treated Mr T and Miss 
M unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr T and Miss M. But I hope they 
understand the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr T and Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman