DRN-3580663
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim to an
investment scam and lost money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Between September and October 2020 Mr S made a series of nine payments, totalling
$52,400 to two companies (Ill refer to as Company A and Company T) which he believed
offered investment trading platforms, trading in Forex and gold. Mr S said he was told the
companies could guarantee 100% returns because the trading was done automatically using
an intelligent trading system. Mr S had been introduced to the investment opportunity by an
individual hed met through a dating app.
Transaction 
numberDate Amount Type of transaction
1 23/09/2020 $100 Transfer to new beneficiary A
2 24/09/2020 $2,500 Transfer to beneficiary A
3 28/09/2020 $5,000 Transfer to beneficiary A
4 08/10/2020 $4,500 Transfer to new beneficiary B
5 13/10/2020 $3,300 Transfer to new beneficiary C
6 13/10/2020 $6,000 Transfer to beneficiary C
7 16/10/2020 $7,000 Transfer to beneficiary C
8 21/10/2020 $11,500 Transfer to beneficiary C
9 22/10/2020 $12,500 Transfer to beneficiary D
27/10/2020 -$4,500 Refund
Total loss $47,900
Mr S said before signing up he decided he wanted to trade on his own without any pressure,
which had been agreed. But having signed up he was told he shouldnt trade manually and
should trust the algorithm. Having made the transfers Mr S says he saw his investments
making good returns, but when he tried to withdraw money his requests were refused, or he
was given excuses why he couldnt make a withdrawal at that time. Mr S was also pressured
to repeatedly increase his funds on the platform to enable him to trade manually. After a
time, Mr S realised hed been the victim of a sophisticated investment scam. He contacted
Revolut to seek its help to recover his lost funds. One of the transactions Mr S had made
($4,500) was later refunded to him, meaning his total loss was $47,900.
Revolut contacted the beneficiary banks but they advised that no funds remained in the
receiving accounts. Revolut confirmed to Mr S that it wouldnt refund the money hed lost as
hed authorised the transactions and it had processed them correctly.
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said Revolut hadnt done enough
to protect him from the financial risks of fraud. He said it had failed in its duty of care and
should specifically have warned him about the dangers of sending money offshore and that
hed have little to no protection if anything went wrong.
While waiting for the Financial Ombudsman to consider the complaint, Revolut revised its
position and offered Mr S a partial refund of $16,900. It didnt explain how it had reached this
figure. Mr S didnt accept Revoluts offer.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He considered Mr S transactions were out of
character for him and concluded Revolut ought to have intervened when the first scam
payment was made. Had it done so, our Investigator thought Mr S would have become
aware of the scam and wouldnt have gone ahead with the subsequent transactions. He
recommended Revolut refund the full amount Mr S lost, plus interest.
Revolut disagreed with our Investigators opinion and asked for the case to be referred to an
Ombudsman for a final decision. It said it had complied with the terms of the account when it
processed Mr S transactions in line with his instructions. It disagreed the transactions were
out of character for Mr S usual use. It noted hed previously made transactions for similar
and larger amounts than the ones involved in the scam. It said he was also known to carry
out transactions in other currencies. It also argued that Mr S had failed to take reasonable
care or carry out his own due diligence before making the transfers, so he was at least partly
responsible for his loss. Revolut also thought it was suspicious that Mr S had been
inconsistent when reporting his loss. It noted when he originally notified Revolut of the scam
hed only mentioned transactions 5 to 9, he later included transactions 1 to 4 in his formal
complaint. And when he made a complaint to Action Fraud he stated his loss was even 
higher.
On 30 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision partly upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our Investigator, so Im issuing this
provisional decision to allow everyone a further opportunity to comment before I reach my
final decision.
Im sorry to hear Mr S was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost a
considerable sum of money as a result. I understand this loss had a significant impact on his
life, finances, and his wider family. In the circumstances, I can appreciate why he wants to
do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Mr S
losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for those.
Firstly, whilst Ive noted Revoluts concerns about how Mr S reported his loss, Im satisfied
the evidence supports that hes suffered losses as set out above ($47,900).
I dont think its implausible that in the panic of discovering hed been the victim of a scam
Mr S may not have fully realised, or indeed calculated, the extent of his loss when he
contacted Revolut through its chat function. He later clarified his position and has
consistently stated that his loss relates to the nine transactions set out above.
In relation to the Action Fraud report, I understand that Mr S made transfers to the
scammers from other accounts in his name that werent held with Revolut. So again, I dont
think its suspicious that he stated his total loss was higher than the sum hes seeking to
recover from Revolut.It is accepted that Mr S authorised the scam payments totalling $52,400 from his Revolut
account. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable
for his remaining loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account
Mr S held with Revolut where a valid payment instruction has been received Revoluts
obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr S provides.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Revolut as an electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be payment instructions
which are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the account. In such
circumstances Id expect Revolut to intervene and ask more questions about the intended
transaction before processing it. Id also expect it to provide suitable warnings about
common scams to help its customers make an informed decision about whether they want to
continue with the payment. There might also be cases where it would be appropriate for
Revolut to refuse to follow a valid payment instruction if there are good grounds to believe it
is being made as a result of a fraud or scam.
Did Revolut do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
So, the starting point for me to decide is whether any of the scam payments Mr S instructed
to be paid from his Revolut account between 23 September and 22 October 2020 were
unusual or uncharacteristic in relation to his typical account activity.
Ive reviewed the account statements for the 12 months prior to the first scam payment being
made. I think this is a sufficient sample size to fairly assess the account activity. I can see
Mr S used his account irregularly, sometimes using it multiple times in one day and at other
times not using it for several weeks at a time. He carried out transactions in several
currencies, including British pound sterling, Canadian dollars and Euros. His transactions
ranged in size from £1 to £5,000, albeit the larger transactions all appear to be transfers to
his own accounts held elsewhere. Looking at Mr Ss account usage as a whole, I cant fairly
say that transactions 1  5 would have stood out to Revolut as unusual or uncharacteristic,
because hed made similar sized payments in the past. So, I dont think there was any
reason for Revolut to have intervened and asked Mr S questions at this point.
But when Mr S gave the instructions for the sixth transaction ($6,000 on 13 October 2020), I
think there were now enough factors to suggest to Revolut that Mr S may be at risk of
financial harm from fraud. I say this because by this point, in the space of a few weeks hed:
set up three new payees, who were all based in Hong Kong;
made transfers to those new payees totalling $21,400, where hed not previously 
instructed transactions in US dollars or made more than one large transaction (over 
£2,000) in any one month;
and most significantly, on 13 October 2020, Mr S instructed transfers totalling $9,300, 
which was considerably more than hed ever transferred before in one day.
While I accept that each transfer on its own didnt appear particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic, I think when the account usage as a whole is reviewed a picture emerges
which is significantly out of character for Mr S. As such, I think this should have flagged as
unusual or suspicious on Revoluts systems. At this stage, Revolut should have intervened
and asked Mr S questions about his transaction.
Would appropriate intervention have affected Mr Ss loss?If the transaction had flagged up as being unusual, Id have expected Revolut to have
contacted Mr S, or required him to make contact before the instruction was processed. At
that point, questions should have been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment
he was making. I think its reasonable to assume that hed have answered honestly and
explained he was seeking to make a transfer as part of an investment.
Given the prevalence of investment scams, particularly those perpetrated from overseas and
given his transfer was going to Hong Kong, I think it would have been prudent for Revolut to
have asked Mr S meaningful, probing questions about the transaction and his intended
investment. For example, I think it should reasonably have asked Mr S how he was
introduced to the investment and what checks hed already carried out to confirm its
authenticity. I think the fact that Mr S had been approached by the scammer via a dating
app; hed been communicating about the investment via WhatsApp; and had been told to
make payments to named individuals would have been indicators that he may potentially be
falling victim to an investment scam.
At this stage if Revolut had offered Mr S clear scam warnings and encouraged him to carry
out his own checks into the company he was seeking to invest in, I think its likely the scam
would have been exposed at this stage. Even if the scam hadnt been fully exposed, I think
Mr S would have thought the risk of continuing to invest with an unregulated firm was too
high to accept  so he wouldnt have proceeded, and his future losses would have been
prevented.
Had Revolut intervened on 13 October 2020 could Mr S have recovered any of his earlier
losses?
I can see that the fourth transaction on 8 October 2020 was later refunded to Mr S. As such,
this transaction doesnt factor into his overall loss.
Ive given careful consideration to whether Mr S earlier transactions could have been
recovered, had Revolut intervened when he attempted to make the sixth transaction. But
overall, Im not persuaded that it would have.
I asked Revolut to enquire with the beneficiary banks when the funds left the beneficiary
accounts. I understand that to date no response has been received. Its not unusual for
banks, particularly those operating in other countries to not respond to requests such as this.
Where information is missing or incomplete, its my role to make a judgement based on what
I think is most likely to have happened.
In this case, given how sophisticated and seemingly well-orchestrated the scam was, I think
its most likely following receipt of the payments, the scammers would have moved the
money from the beneficiary accounts promptly. Our experience also shows that once money
has been transferred outside of the United Kingdom it is unlikely that it will be recovered
once a scam has been identified.
As such, I think its unlikely any outstanding losses from the first five transactions would have
been recovered even if Revolut had intervened on 13 October 2020.
Should Mr S bear some responsibility for his loss?
I have thought carefully about whether Mr S should bear some responsibility for his loss by
way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). And I think
he should.Its clear the material cause of Mr Ss loss came from being tricked by a sophisticated scam.
His loss could also have been minimised had Revolut taken appropriate steps to intervene
when his transactions appeared unusual. But I dont think its unfair to say Mr S wasnt as
careful as I reasonably think he ought to have been before transferring a considerable sum
of money to individuals hed never met and whod made offers that would seem too good to
be true (for example guaranteed 100% returns).
Mr S wasnt a completely inexperienced investor. Hed had some experience of using an ISA
platform to invest in funds. Mr S has told us that before investing hed carried out a search
on Company A on the internet. He noted that it had an entry on The Financial Transactions
and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC) website. He said he was reassured by
this even though the company he was liaising with appeared to operate out of Hong Kong.
Mr S said he was also reassured by what appeared to be a legitimate website. He was able
to log on to the website using details hed been provided and view his transactions and fund
transfers.
But Mr S has also explained that hed had some suspicions about the company before he
invested. For example, he queried why he needed to make his transfers in US dollars. When
he was advised it was the easiest way to transfer funds, he didnt think this made any
sense but carried on with the transactions anyway. He also questioned why hed been
asked to pay a named individual (beneficiary A) but was falsely reassured that this was the
name of the finance department. He was later instructed to make transfers to three other
named individuals (beneficiaries B, C and D) but never questioned why he wasnt paying
Company A or Company T. Hes also explained that promises made by the scammers were
quickly broken, for example before signing up to the platform hed been reassured he could
carry out his own trades, but this changed when hed actually made his initial investment.
Yet despite this Mr S made further investments.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr S carried out some checks before investing, I dont think he
carried out sufficiently thorough checks to enable him to establish the legitimacy of either
Company A or Company T before investing in high risk trading, and I think he ought
reasonably have done more. In the circumstances I think its fair that he bears 20% of the
responsibility for what happened.
So, to put things right, Revolut should pay Mr S $29,600 (80% of his avoidable $37,000 loss
related to transactions 6 to 9). To compensate Mr S for being deprived of this money,
Revolut should also pay him interest on this amount from the date he made each payment to
the date of settlement. I consider our normal rate of compensatory interest (8% simple per
year) is appropriate in the circumstances. I say this as Mr S has told us that he borrowed
money to invest, and was relying on an income from the investment for his day to day 
spending.
Response to my provisional decision 
Revolut disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary it said: 
Mr S should be held responsible for 40% of his loss. It said Mr S was a professional 
with experience working in banks, so should have been aware of the risks associated 
with FX trading platforms and should have thought a 100% return guarantee sounded 
risky. He should also have been concerned that hed been asked to pay named 
individuals and had been told transfers hadnt been received, when in fact they had. 
Had it intervened it wouldnt have made a difference as Mr S would have said he was 
making an investment. 
It also disagreed that 8% interest was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It 
said there was no evidence Mr S was relying on an income from his investment to fund his day to day spending. It also said hed transferred his funds from another 
account that wouldnt have attracted such high interest rates. It said it should also 
only be liable for interest on delays caused by its actions. 
Mr S responded and asked me to reconsider the complaint and my findings. In summary he 
said: 
His initial transfers (23 September to 13 October 2020) were also out of character 
and should have flagged on Revoluts system as suspicious. He said his previous 
high value transfers had been to his other personal account and never to anyone 
external. He asked that these initial transfers be repaid to him. 
Revoluts customer service fell short when he notified it of the scam, as he could only 
communicate via the chat function.
Hes suffered financial distress which was taking a toll on his health.  
Ill address each parties comments below. Now both parties have had an opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Response to Revoluts concerns
Ive thought carefully about what Revolut has said but it hasnt persuaded me to reach a 
different decision on this case. Most of the points it has asked me to review were included in 
its original submissions and so had already been considered. But for clarity, Ill briefly 
address its concerns again here. 
I accept that Mr S was at least partly responsible for his loss. I highlighted similar concerns 
to those raised by Revolut when reaching my provisional decision. But while I consider Mr S 
could have taken more care, he didnt act completely recklessly. He conducted some checks 
before making his initial transfers, and while he could have questioned things more than he 
did he didnt, for example ignore clear scam warnings or act against professional advice 
when choosing to invest. Its also important to note he was under the control of highly 
sophisticated scammers, who were able to falsely reassure him when he had questions or 
concerns. Overall, I consider a 20% deduction is fair in all the circumstances. 
Despite its suggestion to the contrary, Im satisfied that had Revolut intervened, as it should 
have, when Mr S attempted to make the second transaction on 13 October 2020 the scam 
would likely have been exposed at this stage. 
It wouldnt have been enough for Revolut to simply ask Mr S what the purpose of his 
transaction was. Once Mr S informed it that he was seeking to make an investment it would 
have been appropriate and proportionate to ask Mr S who he was intending to pay and why; 
how hed found out about the investment; and whether hed been able to withdraw any 
money from his investments so far. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S would have been 
obstructive or avoided Revoluts questions, and so I believe hed have answered these 
questions honestly. At this point I think Revolut would have been made aware that this had 
the hallmarks of a common and well-known investment scam and Mr Ss further losses 
would have been prevented. 
Ive considered Revoluts concerns regarding the appropriate level of interest thats due to in 
this case, but I remain of the view that 8% simple interest is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S has told us that hed relied on receiving an income from his investment for his day to 
day spending, and this is echoed in his communication with the scammers when he was 
trying to make withdrawals from the account. As such, Im persuaded he has more likely 
than not lost use of that money and so our standard rate of interest is appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
The time it takes us to decide a case is not discounted in any redress we award. And 
ultimately, Revolut had the opportunity to settle this case with Mr S directly, without the need 
for it to be referred to our service. So, I dont consider there should be any discount to the 
amount of interest Revolut needs to pay. 
Response to Mr Ss concerns
Ive given very careful consideration to Mr S suggestion that his initial transfers were 
uncharacteristic and should therefore be refunded, but I dont agree there was enough 
reason for Revolut to have intervened prior to Mr S sixth transaction. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Revolut cant be involved in 
every transaction. Instead it needs to make a judgement based on the information available 
to it.  
Its not unusual in normal account usage to occasionally make payments that are larger than 
previous transactions. And usual account activity isnt a static concept, with every 
transaction thats completed this updates and informs the accounts usual activity. I dont 
doubt scammers are aware of this fact and exploit it in the way they conduct scams and 
request payments. But I cant hold Revolut liable for a loss unless I can reasonably conclude 
it should have prevented it. 
Mr S first transaction to the scammers was for £100. While the transaction was to a new 
payee, it wasnt an unusually high amount, nor were there any other particular flags that 
should have caused Revolut to intervene at that point. 
Mr S made his second transaction the following day. While this transaction was for a more 
significant sum, £2,500, it wasnt completely uncharacteristic for the account and it was to a 
payee that had already been used before. 
The third payment to the same payee was made four days later. Again the sum wasnt 
completely uncharacteristic, particularly given the transaction made a few days before, nor 
would I say there was an obvious pattern emerging that may suggest Mr S was falling victim 
to a scam  for example multiple payments being made within a short space of time.  
Similarly, when the fourth and fifth transactions were made, these were both to new payees, 
but the amounts werent uncharacteristic, particularly when viewed in light of the recent 
account usage. While I appreciate by this stage a pattern had started to emerge, I dont think 
there was enough for Revolut to intervene until the sixth transaction. This is because at this 
point Mr S had transferred £9,300 in one day, which was significantly more than hed ever 
done before. This fact, when combined with the other factors, should have given Revolut 
cause to intervene before processing the transaction.
I understand Mr S was also unhappy that when he notified Revolut of the fraud he was only 
able to contact it via its online chat function. While I can appreciate why Mr S may have 
wanted to speak to someone, Revolut is an EMI, this means it conducts its business primarily online and via its app. Revolut doesnt offer a telephone-based customer service 
line. While I can understand Mr S concerns about this, I cannot interfere with a business 
operating model. And overall, I dont think Mr S was disadvantaged by Revoluts handling of 
his case.   
In summary, while Ive given careful consideration to Mr Ss additional comments, Im not 
persuaded to deviate from the outcome set out in my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
To put things right, Revolut should pay Mr S 80% of his avoidable $37,000 loss (related to 
transactions 6 to 9). As the disputed payments were first converted from £ sterling to USD 
before being sent to the scammers in USD, for the avoidance of doubt, Revolut Ltd should 
return the monies to Mr S in £ sterling. Mr S didnt send the full amounts he converted to the 
scammers and rather specified USD amounts. Revolut is only obliged to return the specified 
USD amounts Mr S transferred in accordance with the redress I've set out. When 
considering the rate of exchange, Revolut should apply the same rate of exchange Mr S 
obtained at the point of each applicable disputed transaction. This is to avoid any potential 
losses or gains.  
To compensate Mr S for being deprived of this money, Revolut should also pay him 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date he made each payment to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund the £ sterling equivalent of $29,600 (80% of transactions 6  9 = $6,000; 
$7,000; $11,500 and $12,500), as set out above. 
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the payments left the account to
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman