DRN-3315327
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined elements of a claim 
made under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have explained that in January 2020 they went on holiday abroad  with them 
due to return home on 15 April 2020. However, they ended up being unable to travel home 
on 15 April as planned. This was because of the global coronavirus pandemic, and 
restrictions put in place within the country they were staying. 
Theyve said that the country they were in went into a lockdown on 22 March 2020, meaning 
that everyone had to stay within their accommodation until the lockdown was lifted  or until 
they could obtain a repatriation flight home. Because of this, Mr and Mrs D said they needed 
to find somewhere to stay, from 15 April 2020, until the date they were able to leave. 
Mr and Mrs D have explained that, through friends, they managed to find a place to stay  
with someone Ill call Mrs C. Mrs C wasnt running a commercial enterprise, but rather had 
agreed for Mr and Mrs D to stay, given the difficult situation they were in. Mr and Mrs D have 
said they agreed to pay Mrs C for the time they were staying with her. They said Mrs C didnt 
have card paying facilities, and so it was agreed that Mr and Mrs D would pay Mrs C when 
they returned home.
On 9 May 2020, Mr and Mrs D left Mrs Cs home, to return to the UK, arriving back on 10 
May 2020. Following this, they made a claim under their travel insurance policy, for losses 
incurred due to staying abroad longer than originally planned.
Aviva considered Mr and Mrs Ds claim, and accepted part of it. It agreed to provide Mr and 
Mrs D settlement for some medication they needed to obtain whilst abroad, and well as for 
the difference between their repatriation flight, and any refund provided by their original 
airline provider for the flight they had originally planned to take. This came to £2,099.74. But 
Aviva declined to provide settlement for another two elements of Mr and Mrs Ds claim  
living and accommodation costs. Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this, and so raised a 
complaint about the matter.
Aviva looked into this and responded. It maintained that it was correct not to pay Mr and Mrs 
D for living costs or the accommodation with Mrs C.  It said Mr and Mrs Ds policy provided 
cover for an enforced stay abroad, but not in the circumstances Mr and Mrs D found 
themselves in. However, it said it had extended cover to its policyholders given the 
unprecedented times. But it said this extension of cover didnt include living costs. And 
accommodation costs wouldnt be provided in Mr and Mrs Ds case, because they hadnt 
stayed in a commercially run premises, but instead with someone they knew.
Mr and Mrs D didnt feel this was fair. They said it would have been almost impossible to find 
accommodation at a commercially run premises in the circumstances of the lockdown. They 
said they didnt know Mrs C  they had only used her property as a place to store their bikes 
when arriving abroad, and only Mrs D had met Mrs C prior to the trip, around 12 years ago  
before Mrs C had moved abroad. They said theyd agreed to pay Mrs C for their stay, and 
payment of this was outstanding.
Because Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, they referred their case to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. They said that 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy did have cover for enforced stays abroad. But only in certain, listed, 
situations. Our investigator said that the situation Mr and Mrs D found themselves in wasnt 
one the enforced stay section of the policy listed as covered. So, they were satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs D werent actually due a settlement under the policy at all.
However, the investigator went on to say she understood Aviva had extended cover to Mr 
and Mrs D, given the unprecedented situation they found themselves in. And Aviva had paid 
for additional costs incurred due to a repatriation flight and medical expenses. Our 
investigator considered this was fair, and didnt think Aviva needed to pay Mr and Mrs D any 
more. 
Our investigator said that the enforced stay section of Mr and Mrs Ds policy didnt provide 
cover for living expenses such as food, even where there was a listed reason covered under 
the enforced stay section. So, they didnt think it was fair to ask Aviva to pay it in this case 
either  particularly as whether abroad or not, Mr and Mrs D were always going to need to 
spend money on food. 
In terms of the accommodation, our investigator noted that it was Mr and Mrs D that offered 
to provide some money to Mrs C for staying at her home  she hadnt asked or charged a 
fee. Our investigator felt it therefore was reasonable for Aviva to decline to pay anything for 
accommodation, because Mr and Mrs D hadnt actually incurred any charges here  they 
didnt stay with anyone as a commercial entity, and had paid no fee to Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. In summary, they felt it was reasonable and honourable to offer to 
pay for staying in a relative strangers home, and thats why they said they would pay Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs D said they had written out an invoice just to demonstrate the money offered to 
Mrs C, and they wouldnt suffer a loss unless they went back on their offer to pay Mrs C. 
Because Mr and Mrs D disagreed, their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs D  its clear they feel strongly about the matter. However, Id 
like to reassure both parties that Ive considered everything provided to this service when 
coming to my decision. However, in my reasoning below Ive only referred to that which is 
relevant to explain my decision, and the reasoning behind it.
When considering complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim (or part of it). So, Ive 
considered whether Aviva unreasonably declined to provide a settlement to Mr and Mrs D for 
accommodation and living costs. And Im satisfied that Avivas decision to decline these 
elements was reasonable. Mr and Mrs Ds policy does provide cover for an enforced stay abroad. Their policy 
documentation explains this. But, as is common with insurance policies of this nature, it only 
provides cover for enforced stay abroad in particular circumstances. These being airspace, 
airport or port closure, or flight cancellation due to volcanic ash in the atmosphere. Mr and 
Mrs D werent forced to stay abroad for these reasons. Instead they had to stay abroad due 
to government restrictions, and the need to wait for a repatriation flight. So, Im satisfied their 
loss doesnt fall within the terms of the policy. And so generally wouldnt have been covered.
However, recognising the unprecedented situation Mr and Mrs D and other policyholders 
found themselves in, Aviva agreed to extend its enforced stay cover to Mr and Mrs D being 
having to stay abroad due to the global pandemic. So, as per the enforced stay section of 
the policy it would consider payment of accommodation and travel costs, as well as medical 
expenses incurred where Mr and Mrs D were unable to return home  up to the limits in the 
policy.
Aviva did settle the additional costs for a repatriation flight, and for medical expenses Mr and 
Mrs D occurred, and this part of the claim hasnt been disputed. So, I wont comment on this 
further. But as Mr and Mrs D feel they should be provided with settlement for 
accommodation and living expenses (food) Ive thought carefully about whether Aviva should 
have done more in that regard.
I think Aviva acted fairly. In terms of living expenses  these arent provided for by the 
enforced stay section of cover, even when the reason for needing to stay abroad is covered 
(i.e. airspace closure or volcanic ash presence). So, Im satisfied requiring Aviva to pay living 
costs, where it has extended the cover to enforced stay due to the global pandemic, wouldnt 
be reasonable. Mr and Mrs D were always going to need to pay living expenses, such as 
food during this time.
In terms of the accommodation costs Mr and Mrs D have claimed for  I also think Aviva has 
acted fairly in declining this element of the claim. 
The information provided to Aviva shows Mr and Mrs Ds accommodation during their 
extended stay was informal, with no costs to pay  Mrs C didnt charge a fee. Rather, Mr and 
Mrs D were staying with an acquaintance of Mrs Ds. In communication with Aviva, Mr and 
Mrs D explained:
In our plight, Mrs C kindly agreed that we could stay with her for the duration of the 
lockdown and until such time as we could organise repatriation flights..I insisted with Mrs 
C that we must pay a reasonable going rate for her hospitality.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D have said offering to pay Mrs C was a reasonable and honourable 
thing to do. And that may be the case. But insistence to pay something for Mrs Cs kindness 
at opening her home, isnt the same as Mr and Mrs D having incurred accommodation costs, 
due to their extended stay. 
Mr and Mrs D put together an invoice to illustrate the money they had said they will give Mrs 
C, based on what they thought was a reasonable payment for each night stayed  this 
coming to £3,724. But these werent costs actually incurred. I havent seen any evidence to 
show that Mrs C offered her home, on the basis this was in return for this set fee. Or that Mrs 
C has invoiced this set fee herself. Mr and Mrs D havent evidenced theyve suffered a loss 
in respect of accommodation due to their enforced stay. Theyve instead chosen to provide 
funds to Mrs C, as a gesture of goodwill, should their insurance policy pay for this. Mr and 
Mrs D have said theyll need to renege this offer if the insurance policy doesnt pay  but 
thats not a matter for the insurance policy.   To summarise, Mr and Mrs Ds policy dont cover the circumstances they found themselves 
in. And whilst Aviva has extended its cover to pay some of Mr and Mrs Ds costs, Im 
satisfied it wouldnt be fair to require Aviva to pay an amount for living costs or 
accommodation in this case. So, I dont require Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman