DRN-3800006
The complaint
Miss S has complained Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund her for a 
transaction she made on her credit card to an online marketplace for holiday rentals. 
What happened
In March 2020 Miss S reserved a holiday rental through an online marketplace Ill call M. 
She was due to go on holiday in July 2020. The price breakdown was:
£149.25 X 7 nights £1,044.75
Cleaning fee £22.61
Ms service fee £180.83
Total £1,248.19
Miss S paid £703.24 on her Virgin Money credit card in March 2020  made up of 
reservation and service fee. The balance of £544.95 was due to be paid before she went 
away. The cancellation policy said: Cancel before 4:00PM on 4 Jun and get a 50% re-fund, 
minus the service fee. 
Due to Covid-19 Miss S asked the property host to cancel the booking because she was 
unable to travel. But the host told Miss S shed need to cancel it herself through Ms website. 
Miss S did this in May 2020. M said Miss S wasnt due a refund. I think this is because shed 
not paid the final instalment of £544.95. M did, however, give her a coupon to use for the 
value of the service fee, initially valid for 2020, and later until the end of 2021. 
Miss S was unhappy she wasnt getting the rest of her money back, particularly given the 
reason she says she couldnt travel was outside of her control. So she contacted Virgin 
Money online to ask for help in July 2020. Miss S said after a month or so, she contacted 
Virgin Money to get an update, but she says she was told it hadnt gotten around to looking 
at the claim at that point. Virgin Moneys notes say it requested information about the 
booking from Miss S but didnt receive a response. Virgin Money has also provided a copy of 
a letter it sent to Miss S in November 2020 saying she was out of time to raise the 
chargeback because shed not responded to its information request. 
Miss S called to get an update in January 2021, and she said shed not received the letters 
from Virgin Money. So Miss S responded with the information requested about the booking. 
She then complained that Virgin Money had declined her claim. 
Virgin Money sent its final response letter in April 2021. It said its disputes team had followed 
the correct process and that the claim had fallen outside of the 120-day chargeback 
timescale set by the card scheme operator. Virgin Money also said it was unable to pursue 
the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Unhappy with the response, Miss S referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought it wasnt unreasonable for Virgin Money to decline to pursue the chargeback further 
because when it received sufficient information from Miss S, the time limit had expired. But 
she thought there was a breach of contract and recommended Virgin Money reimburse 
Miss S 50% of what shed paid, less Ms service fee. 
Miss S accepted the recommendation, but weve not heard back from Virgin Money. 
I issued a provisional decision that said: 
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Miss S was impacted by Covid-19. And I want to thank 
her for taking the time to refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Im considering whether Virgin Money has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Miss Ss request for getting her money back. In situations like this, Virgin Money can 
consider raising a chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
Ive first thought about Virgin Moneys decision not to pursue a chargeback further than it 
did. The process is subject to rules made by the relevant card schemes. Its not a 
guaranteed way of getting a refund. For the card scheme that is relevant in this case, the 
rules say that there is a limited window of time in which to make a chargeback. Generally, 
this is 120 days from the date of the transaction or, if a service was meant to be provided by 
a specific date in the future, 120 days from that date. 
Our investigator said by the time Miss S provided Virgin Money enough evidence for the 
claim it was out of time. And by January 2021, I agree it wouldve been too late for Virgin 
Money to raise a chargeback. 
Miss S said she didnt receive a request for information from Virgin Money. Unfortunately, I 
cant see that Virgin Money has provided a copy of that request letter to the Financial 
Ombudsman. But the notes do indicate it made call attempts to speak to Miss S in 
September 2020, and after not receiving a response it wrote to her to ask for booking details.
I think it likely Virgin Money did request information from Miss S. And it needed that 
information to see if there was a reasonable prospect of success for the chargeback. Given it 
didnt have that information within the relevant time limit, I dont think it acted unfairly by not 
offering to do more in January 2021 because, by this point, it was out of time. 
Even if Im wrong on that, and Virgin Money didnt send a request for information, or if it had 
all the required information in time, Im still not persuaded thered have been a reasonable 
prospect of success for a chargeback for services not received. Miss S was unhappy she 
didnt receive the service, but this was as a result of her cancelling it. Ive not seen evidence 
that the property host would have been unable to provide the accommodation  although I 
appreciate Miss S may not have been able to travel there. 
There are also chargeback conditions relating to cancelled services. But Im mindful that 
Miss S was able to cancel the service. And while I think the cancellation terms could have 
been set out more clearly, I dont think Miss S would have been due a refund higher than the 
£544.95 she had left to pay. So I dont think there was a prospect of success through this 
avenue either. 
Overall, I need to consider what the specific chargeback rules say. Ive also considered the 
Covid-19 best practice guidelines that had been set out by the card scheme operator for 
card issuers in April 2020. A successful dispute has to meet certain conditions and, while Im 
sympathetic, Ive not seen that they were met for Miss Ss scenario.
For completeness, Ive also thought about whether Virgin Money dealt with the section 75 
claim fairly. Section 75 makes Virgin Money jointly liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by M. I dont think just telling Miss S it was simply not pursuing it was 
particularly helpful. But for the reasons Ive set out above, even had it considered the claim, 
Ive not seen enough evidence theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation that 
ought to have led to a successful claim. I dont think M owes Miss S money for breaching the 
contract in relation to the provision of a service or the cancellation terms. Nor has it made a 
misrepresentation, from what Ive seen. 
I can understand why Miss S will be disappointed, things were after all out of her control to a 
large extent. But I have to decide the complaint thinking about Virgin Moneys liability. I cant 
see there are grounds to direct Virgin Money to reimburse her further. 
Neither party has supplied any further arguments or evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss S has lost out. But I have to consider what I can fairly hold Virgin 
Money responsible for. And for the reasons given above, seeing as no one has provided 
anything new for me to consider, Im not going to depart from the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman