DRN-3654788
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society unreasonably declined his loan application. 
What happened
Mr G applied for a personal loan and says he was refused because he had repaid a loan 
within the previous 40 days. He says this limitation wasnt listed anywhere within 
Nationwides loan application information. He complained about this issue and was offered 
£50 compensation and the complaint was considered resolved. 
Mr G then re-applied for a loan and was declined because he had a missed payment which 
he says was due to an administrative error that was corrected before any action was taken. 
Mr G says that he has taken other loans with Nationwide and always repaid them early and 
that he has significant funds in investments as well as his declared income. He didnt think 
that Nationwide had treated him fairly. 
Nationwide issued its final response letter dated 16 June 2022. It said that Mr Gs application 
was declined due to the conduct of his Nationwide account, advising that there was a 
returned direct debit payment in January 2022 (a returned direct debit in December 2021 
may also have been included). It said the application was reviewed and found the decline 
was correct and couldnt be overturned. It said that investment income wasnt taken into 
account, but it noted Mr Gs comments about this. It apologised for the service provided and 
delays in responding to Mr G and credited his account with £50 because of this. It noted 
Mr Gs previous complaint about the 40-day rule and said this could be re-opened if 
requested. 
Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the setting of lending criteria and 
decisions on whether to lend or not are both matters for a lenders commercial judgement 
and it isnt our role to intervene in matters of commercial judgement unless there is evidence 
of an error or maladministration in the exercise of that judgement. He was satisfied that 
Nationwide made its decision to decline Mr Gs application in accordance with its lending 
criteria. He noted the delays Mr G experienced but though the compensation paid by 
Nationwide was reasonable. 
Mr G didnt agree with out investigators view. He said his application was declined based on 
a single missed payment and without a credit search taking place. He reiterated that his 
investments and previous borrowing history werent taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G is upset by the recent experience he has had applying for loans. This 
decision is in regard to his complaint about his loan application on 24 March 2022 being 
declined. 
Mr G applied for a loan in March 2022 and his application was declined. Nationwide has 
explained this was due to his account conduct. I understand Mr G doesnt accept this and 
has explained that the missed payment was a one-off and resolved quickly. Nationwide will 
set its lending criteria, and this is a commercial process. My role isnt to comment on 
commercial decisions or to tell Nationwide how to set its lending criteria, however I can 
consider whether it has made any mistakes in the process of applying its criteria or if Mr G 
has been treated unfairly. 
In this case Nationwide has explained why Mr Gs application was declined. It reviewed the 
decline decision and confirmed that it wouldnt be overturned. As Nationwide followed its 
usual procedures and its decision was based on its lending criteria, I do not find I can say 
Mr G has been treated unfairly or that a mistake has been made.
I note Mr Gs comments about his other investments but it is up to Nationwide to determine 
what is included in its assessment for affordability and as it has noted in this case Mr Gs 
application was declined on the basis of his account conduct rather than affordability. 
I also note Mr Gs comments about his previous borrowing history and that he has repaid his 
previous loans early. While this may be taken into account, the assessment for each loan will 
be based on the information available to it at the time. Mr Gs application was declined on 
the basis of his account conduct leading up the application and I cannot say that his previous 
borrowing history should override the decision made. 
Nationwide has accepted that there were delays in responding to Mr G and that it didnt 
always provide the service it should have. I have considered the service issues and the 
impact these will have had on Mr G and I find the £50 compensation that was paid in June 
2022 is reasonable in this case.
In conclusion, while I note Mr Gs comments about Nationwides lending criteria, it is a 
commercial decision for Nationwide to decide who it lends to and the basis on which it 
makes its lending decision. As it has explained the reason why Mr Gs application was 
declined and provided evidence to support this, I do not find I can say it has done anything 
wrong or treated Mr G unfairly. Therefore I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman