DRN-1099688
 
The complaint
 Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to him. He says he wasnt good with money and got into a cycle of debt which he was 
unable to get out of.                  
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr R between March 2015 
and January 2016. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 31/03/2015 26/06/2015 Instalment £400.00
2 09/06/2015 27/06/2015 Instalment £200.00
3 03/07/2015 18/08/2015 Instalment £200.00
4 24/08/2015 28/08/2015 Instalment £150.00
5 05/09/2015 18/12/2015 Instalment £400.00
5 05/01/2016 28/01/2016 Instalment £400.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been given because Mr R was showing signs of struggling to 
manage his money. 
Sunny disagreed. It said it carried out sufficient checks on Mr Rs income and expenditure to 
ensure it was affordable for Mr R.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.  
What I've decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr R didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr R had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to partially 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Like the adjudicator, I think that by the time loan five was applied for a pattern of borrowing 
had begun to emerge that suggested Mr R was struggling with his finances. 
Mr R was repaying his loans well before the end of the term of the loan agreed at the outset. 
I appreciate that this can save interest costs and can also be an indication that a consumer 
has got on top of the financial problem that caused them to have to take this type of 
borrowing in the first place. But when a consumer comes back for further borrowing shortly 
after early repayment of a previous one it can an indication that they are having problems 
with their finances. Loan two was taken when loan one was still outstanding. They were both repaid with a day 
of each other but loan three was then taken out less than a week later. And loan three was 
repaid on 18 August only for loan four to be taken out six days later. This pattern continued 
where re-borrowing was taken mostly within days of early repayment of an earlier loan. 
Loan one was for £400 and these amounts reduced for the next three amounts taken but the 
amount borrowed crept up again to £400 at loan five. And by this time there was enough of a 
pattern to suggest that Mr R wasnt managing his money very well, so I think Sunny should 
have considered at this point whether it was fair for it to carry on lending to Mr R. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr R was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr R had taken out six loans within 11 months. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr R was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Rs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Rs first loan was for £400 and loan six was for £400.  At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mr R was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. As Ive said 
above, loan six was taken out 11 months after Mr Rs first. And it was for the same 
amount. Mr R had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny 
over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr R lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing at loan six because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans Mr R borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans five and six and Sunny 
should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr Rs credit file;
the number of loans taken at loan six means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So, all entries about loan six should be removed from Mr Rs credit file.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
 
 
 
 
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman