DRN-2491031
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has treated him unfairly in relation to his 
overdraft.
What happened
Mr W holds a current account with Lloyds which includes an overdraft facility. In August 
2019, following financial difficulties, Lloyds agreed to a repayment plan with Mr W to allow 
him to repay a sum of £15 a month for several months. In January 2020, Lloyds then agreed 
to a further plan of £24 a month for six months. It also indicated when this plan expired it 
would offer a further 12-month repayment plan.
But in in July 2020 Lloyds said it wouldnt continue with any further plans and instead would 
pass the account to its recoveries department which in turn could impact his credit file.
Mr W complained, saying Lloyds hadnt told him this would happen. He said if hed known a 
further 12-month plan wasnt possible from July 2020 onwards he wouldve sought help from 
family to settle the debt back in January 2020. But unfortunately, his family werent in a 
position to help at the point he was told a further plan wasnt possible. As a result, hes said 
Lloyds actions will unfairly impact his credit file. 
Lloyds agreed it gave Mr W incorrect information in January 2020, saying based on his 
financial situation and the length of time his account had been with collections it couldnt 
agree to another plan. It offered him £250 for giving him incorrect information. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and agreed Lloyds had provided inaccurate 
information to Mr W about the possibility of a further repayment plan. But she felt its offer of 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. She also said Lloyds had a responsibility to 
report accurate information about the account, and she didnt think it would be reasonable to 
ask it to not meet this responsibility.
Mr W disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
My role here is to consider Lloyds actions on the complaint, and whether Ive felt theyve 
done enough to put things right. Lloyds hasnt disputed that it gave Mr W incorrect 
information. So its clear to me Lloyds mismanaged Mr Ws expectations.
Mr W has said if hed been aware in January 2020 that a further repayment plan wasnt an 
option to him, he wouldve made alternative plans to try and pay off the outstanding amount 
through family help. The information on Mr Ws account suggests that he was having 
difficulty maintaining the overdraft for some time which had led to the previous repayment 
plans on the account for him. So while I recognise Mr W feels strongly that hed have 
received help from relatives, I cant see this help would be guaranteed. 
As a responsible lender, Lloyds has a duty to report correct information about how Mr W has 
handled the account with it. I understand Mr W is concerned about the implications of any 
markers on his credit file. But this doesnt change Lloyds obligation. And Im not persuaded 
it would be reasonable to direct Lloyds to report anything other than whats happened.
Its clear to me that Lloyds mistake has led to disappointment for Mr W. But Im satisfied the 
compensation it has offered is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman