DRN-4312299
The complaint
Mrs N says that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance (who Ill
call Hitachi), unfairly declined her claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in
relation to a timeshare she was sold.
Mrs N has been represented by a professional representative, but as she is named on the
credit agreement, and for convenience, I will refer only to her in this decision. I mean no
disrespect to her representatives when doing so.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below. 
What happened
Mrs N purchased a timeshare in June 2019. She financed the deal through a fixed sum loan
with Hitachi. The timeshare agreement expires in 2033, and the finance agreement is still
running.
Mrs N complained to Hitachi in June 2021. It isnt practical to list all of Mrs Ns concerns in
detail here, but amongst other things, she said that the timeshare had been misrepresented
to her and she therefore had a claim under section 75 of the CCA; there was an unfair
relationship that gave her a claim under section 140A of the CCA; commission hadnt been
disclosed to her; and that both the timeshare and finance agreements were null and void.
She also complained that Hitachi hadnt performed adequate checks to ensure the finance
agreement was affordable for her.
Hitachi didnt respond to Mrs Ns complaint in time, so Mrs N referred it to this Service in
September 2021, and later that month Hitachi provided their thoughts. They didnt think there
was a reason to uphold the various elements of Mrs Ns complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld either.
In response to our investigator's view of this complaint, and Hitachis final response on the
matter, Mrs Ns representatives wrote to this Service and expanded on the complaint. They
said the timeshare agreement was null and void because Mrs N hadnt been provided with
certain key information that the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange
Contract Regulations 2010 (that Ill call the 2010 Regs) required the timeshare company to
supply to her.
Hitachi provided some comments from the timeshare provider, who explained that Mrs Ns
representatives view of the key information that needed to be supplied under Regulation 15
of the 2010 Regs was wrong, and that they had provided all of the requisite information to
Mrs N ahead of the agreement in the Information Statement.
As Mrs N didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs N, but Im not currently inclined to uphold her complaint. Ill
explain why.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards,
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
Many aspects of this complaint appear to have faded away over time. Mrs Ns
representatives most recent submission would suggest that the only point of dispute
remaining is whether there was an unfair relationship under section 140A of the CCA
because Mrs N hadnt been provided with the key information she should have been
provided with under schedule 1 of the 2010 Regs.
Ill therefore deal with that issue first before briefly touching on the other points that have
been raised in case theyre still contested.
Was Mrs N provided with the relevant key information?
Mrs Ns representatives have suggested that the timeshare agreement is unenforceable
under Regulation 15 of the 2010 Regs because the timeshare provider breached Regulation
12 by failing to provide the key information set out in Regulation 13 and detailed in Schedule
1. They say that as the key information wasnt supplied, Regulation 21 allows for an
extension of Mrs Ns withdrawal rights from 14 days to three months and 14 days. That
being the case, they say a payment was made to the supplier when it shouldnt have been 
contrary to the relevant timeshare regulations (Regulation 25).
Mrs Ns representatives say that the details of the exact property and the season werent
supplied. But I agree with the timeshare provider who explained:
No details of a unit location, unit size and unit number are required as the contract does not
relate to an immovable property and the information concerning the exact period within
which the right may be exercised and its duration is stated in the Standard Information
Form.
I think the key information set out in the Standard Information Form meets the requirements
of the 2010 Regulations, and I dont, therefore, think an unfair relationship has been
demonstrated or that Hitachi were wrong to reject that claim.
The claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974When something goes wrong, and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a
credit agreement has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between Mrs N and Hitachi.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mrs N may have under sections 75 or 140A,
but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether Hitachi were reasonable to
reject Mrs Ns claims.
Section 75 of the CCA
If Mrs N was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a
significant reason why she entered into the agreement, I may think the agreement had been
misrepresented to her. In those circumstances, I may think Hitachi were unreasonable not to
consider and uphold a claim under section 75.
Resale
Whilst I understand it is Mrs Ns suggestion she was wrongly told she could sell her points,
Ive not seen any other evidence to support that.
The Information Statement says:
Part 3.6.4 There is no resale, rental or re-purchase of Points programme in placealthough
members are entitled to sell their Points on the open market should they wish to do so
Mrs N signed the Information Statement, acknowledging receipt, and Im persuaded that its,
therefore likely it was provided to her. So, I dont think Hitachi have been unreasonable to
reject the suggestion Mrs N was given a false statement about being able to sell her points
as I think a court would be likely to reach the same conclusion.
Availability
Mrs N complained about poor availability of accommodation. It seems shes, therefore,
suggesting she was told accommodation would have better availability, but Hitachi have
explained Mrs N was always offered her first choice of accommodation and, regardless, the
Owners Club Guide explains that:
Reservations: All are subject to availability, on the principle of first come first served, and
member and seasonal demands.
I dont, therefore, think there is sufficient evidence a false statement was provided about
availability and, even if there was, I dont think Mrs N has been disadvantaged by it or that
Hitachi have, therefore been unreasonable not to uphold her complaint in that regard.Section 140A of the CCA
Was the timeshare and therefore the loan voidable?
If the timeshare agreement was voidable, I think it likely that the related loan was also
voidable on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund, and thats something that
could be considered under a section140A CCA claim.
Mrs Ns representatives referred to an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation, and a
Spanish court judgment that they said, taken together, demonstrated that a timeshare that
provides for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, was
a voidable agreement.
The timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law, so I
dont think the Spanish judgment (which in any event relates to a different timeshare product
to Mrs Ns timeshare) could be applied directly to the question as to whether the contract is
voidable under English law. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules, and regulations,
I can not see anything that would have the effect Mrs Ns representative seek. In fact, in a
recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by
UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points-based timeshare were basic
timeshare models that were not described as being problems in and of themselves. Based
on the evidence I have seen, I do not think the timeshare agreement nor the related credit
agreement was voidable.
Commission
Mrs Ns representatives say Hitachi failed to disclose the commission paid.
One of the main aims of both the 2010 Regs and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract
Regulations 1999 was to enable consumers to understand the financial implications of their
purchase so that they were/are put in the position to make an informed decision. If a
suppliers disclosure and/or the terms of a bargain didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and
the consumer ultimately lost out or almost certainly stands to lose out from having entered
into a contract whose financial implications they didnt fully understand at the time of
contracting, that may amount to unfairness under Section 140A.
However, the members declaration which is signed by Mrs N explains:
We have a commercial agreement with the lender who is providing the loan you have
requested and as part of those commercial terms we are entitled to commission from the
lender and Details of the commission in respect of your loan are available on request by
you quoting your contract number.
Im not therefore persuaded any unfair relationship was created as it seems Mrs N was put
on notice that commission was being paid and was able to find out how much.
Affordability
Mrs N says that Hitachi were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether she could afford to repay the loan. She says they had
strict obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct
Authoritys (FCAs) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those
obligations.
Hitachi have set out the checks they performed. I think they were reasonable and
proportionate, in the circumstances. Theyve explained that they reviewed Mrs N's incomeand validated it using statistical modelling. They looked at her credit file too, noting that she
had no credit commitments. When considering Mrs Ns likely expenditure, they took into
account that she wasnt a homeowner and calculated her likely contribution to rent. Having
done that Hitachi have explained that they established Mrs N was likely to have disposable
income of over £2,000 a month from which they thought shed be able to sustainably afford
her monthly repayments towards this loan along with her annual maintenance fees.
Ive not been provided with, or asked for, evidence of those checks, although I dont doubt
Hitachis explanation. But in the absence of any evidence from Mrs N to demonstrate the
finance agreement wasnt affordable for her, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to say
that was the case.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
Hitachi didnt provide any further comments or evidence, but Mrs Ns representatives did.
They said the key information set out in Regulation 13 of the 2010 Regs and detailed in 
Schedule 1  Part 3  Section 2 (b) had not been provided, and that the Supplier had 
therefore committed an offence under Regulation 15, and the timeshare was unenforceable. 
They reiterated that as the key information hadnt been provided, Regulation 21 allowed for 
an extension of Mrs Ns withdrawal rights from 14 days to three months and 14 days. That 
being the case, they said a payment was made to the supplier when it shouldnt have been  
contrary to the relevant timeshare regulations (Regulation 25).
They said that the Supplier also breached the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
(CPUT) Regulations (2008) because it didnt provide the information set out in Regulation 
13 of the 2010 Regs. They said that was a misleading omission because it omitted material 
information that could have caused Mrs N not to enter into the purchase of the timeshare. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Schedule 1  Part 3  Section 2 of the 2010 Regs sets out some additional information that 
the timeshare consumer is entitled to. It says:
where the contract concerns accommodation other than immovable property, an 
appropriate description of the accommodation and the facilities
The Standard Information Form isnt mute on that point. It says:
Please see the Facilities Sheets and the Vacation Club Members Guide and Directory.
It is Mrs Ns assertion that she didnt receive the Facilities Sheets and the Vacation Club 
Members Guide and Directory, and Ive not seen a copy of that information. But Im not 
persuaded it is likely Mrs N wasnt provided with that information as I can see she has been 
able to book accommodation, and in the absence of information about the accommodation 
available and its facilities I cant see how she would have been able to do so. I can also see 
links online to a club members area that explains it contains information on the resorts available, and to facilities sheets which, although I accept may not be the ones in question, 
suggest it was likely these were available for Mrs N to draw upon.
Im not persuaded by the additional comments Mrs Ns representatives have supplied that 
there is reason to change my provisional decision. That provisional decision therefore 
becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman