DRN-2487515
The complaint
Mr M complains about NewDay Ltd and their decision to approve his credit card application 
as well as the credit limit increases applied to the account. 
What happened
In May 2016, NewDay approved Mr Ms credit card application. They took into account Mr 
Ms annual income, other household income and information shown on his credit file. Having 
done so, they provided Mr M with an initial £300 credit limit.
In September 2016, Mr Ms credit limit was increased to £500. And in January 2017, it was 
increased to £600. But Mr M was in financial difficulty at the time, and he struggled to meet 
the minimum monthly payments of the account or stay within the limit provided. Mr M 
thought the credit card provided by NewDay had contributed to his financial difficulty, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr M complained about NewDays decision to approve his credit card application. He 
thought it was clear from the maintenance of another credit card he held with a linked 
business to NewDay, who Ill refer to as A, that he was struggling financially. So, he didnt 
think NewDay did enough to confirm the affordability of the card and had lent to him 
irresponsibly. So, he wanted the interest and charges that had been applied to the account 
to be refunded, along with 8% interest from the date the application was approved.
NewDay didnt agree. They thought the checks they completed before approving the credit 
card application were proportionate to the limit they provided. And they thought the limit 
increases were reasonable. They explained Mr M had the option to opt out of the limit 
increases, but hed chosen not to do so. And they explained that they were a lender who 
provided credit to customers who may not be able to obtain it elsewhere in order to improve 
their credit rating. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong, or needed to do 
anymore. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought NewDays initial 
decision to approve the credit card application was fair, and the checks they completed were 
proportionate. But she didnt think NewDay acted reasonably when offering Mr M limit 
increases. She explained in the four months between the card being provided, and the first 
limit being given, Mr M had exceeded his limit twice and made several cash transactions. 
She thought NewDay shouldve recognised this and how it may have pointed to the financial 
difficulty Mr M was in. And as they didnt, and continued to increase the limit by 67%, she 
thought NewDay had acted unfairly when provided both increases.
But she also recognised Mr M had an opportunity to opt out of the increases, and didnt do 
this. And she recognised Mr M had received a benefit of the money hed spent. So, she 
thought NewDay should refund Mr M the interest and charges applied to the account after 
the first limit was applied, on any amount over the initial £300 limit. She also thought 
NewDay should pay Mr M 8% interest on any refund Mr M was provided. And finally, she 
thought NewDay should remove any negative information reported to Mr Ms credit file that 
related to credit hed received over the initial credit limit. 
Mr M agreed with this recommendation. But NewDay didnt. They explained Mr M had only 
exceeded his limit due to the charges applied to his account following a cash transaction. 
And Mr M had made the payment needed to bring his account back under the initial limit. So, 
they didnt think this in itself was enough to suggest a limit increase wasnt appropriate. And 
they also didnt think Mr M spending up to his limit suggested he was in financial difficulty. 
They explained as per industry guidelines that affordability is calculated on the assumption a 
customer will spend up to the limit straight away. This is what Mr M had done but was also 
within Mr Ms rights to do so. So, they didnt agree theyd provided increases unfairly and 
didnt think they should do anything more. As NewDay didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr M. Im aware Mr M has 
found himself in financial difficulty and I can appreciate the worry and upset this wouldve 
caused. So, I can understand why hed look back at the credit hes found difficult to maintain 
and come to the conclusion that he shouldnt have been provided it in the first place. When 
considering NewDays decision to approve his credit card application, and offer Mr M limit 
increases, Ive first thought about whether the checks NewDay undertook were 
proportionate. And then, whether NewDay assessed the information these checks provided 
fairly. And in this situation, I dont think they did so.
When Mr M initially applied for his credit card in May 2016, Ive seen NewDay considered Mr 
Ms income, additional household income, his residential status and his credit file. And after 
doing this, they provided an initial limit of £300. When considering whether these checks 
were proportionate, Ive considered the amount of credit Mr M was provided compared to his 
annual income and other income that was available in his house. And in this case, the limit 
was very low compared to Mr Ms income of £24,750, plus the additional household income 
of £15,000. So, I think the checks NewDay completed were proportionate to the limit they 
provided as they reasonably suggested Mr M would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way. 
But as well as considering the checks NewDay completed, Ive also considered whether the 
information these checks provided was assessed fairly. As Ive already explained, I think the 
income information Mr M provided suggested the limit to be reasonable. Ive also seen the 
credit check NewDay assessed before approving the application. This showed that Mr M had 
a total of £10,700 unsecured credit before the application was made. But it also showed 
there were no accounts that had defaulted or had been in arrears. So, this search suggested 
Mr M had been able to maintain his accounts in the months leading up to his application. 
As Mr M was applying for credit with a secure annual income, with additional household 
income available, and had no defaults or arrears in place, I dont think there was any 
information available to NewDay that suggested they shouldve automatically declined the 
application. Also, its important to consider that NewDay are a business that look to provide 
customers with credit who may not be able to secure credit elsewhere. So, while Ive 
considered Mr Ms point about the maintenance of his account with A, I dont think this 
means NewDay were wrong to approve this application. So, I think NewDay acted fairly when approving the application and initial limit of £300.
Ive then turned to the credit limit increases. In September 2016, four months after the initial 
application was approved, NewDay increased Mr Ms credit limit from £300 to £500. This is 
an increase of 67%. I understand NewDay doesnt think considering this increase is 
percentage terms is fair. But this percentage is a factual representation of the amount the 
limit was increased.
And I think a 67% increase within four months of an initial limit being provided is a 
substantial one. So, Ive thought about whether Mr Ms usage of his account in the four 
months prior to this suggested this was a fair increase to make. And I dont think it was.
In the four months prior to the increase, Mr M exceeded his limit twice, incurring additional 
charges. And Mr M exceeded his limit by withdrawing cash using the account, meaning the 
cash transaction charge took him over the limit. Ive considered NewDays comments about 
why they dont think Mr M exceeding his limit is representative, as it was due to the 
transaction charges which he hadnt considered. But I dont think this negates the fact Mr M 
did exceed his limit twice. And Mr M was using his card to withdraw cash, which I think 
shouldve suggested to NewDay that Mr M may have been struggling financially. He was 
needing to use this account for cash, rather than any current account he held, and I think this 
shouldve raised concerns for NewDay.  
So, I dont think NewDay acted fairly when increasing Mr Ms limit in September 2016. And 
as I dont think this limit shouldve been applied, then I dont think the second increase 
shouldve been applied in January 2017. But even so, Ive looked at Mr Ms maintenance of 
his account after the first limit was applied. And in the three months between the second 
increase, Mr M withdrew a further £220 in cash, resulting in cash transaction charges. So 
again, I think these cash advances shouldve suggested to NewDay that Mr M may have 
been struggling financially, and at the very least they shouldve sought further information 
before proposing an increase. But they didnt do so. So again, I think NewDays decision to 
increase Mr Ms limit was unfair.
Putting things right
As I think NewDay acted irresponsibly when increasing Mr Ms credit limit in both September 
2016 and January 2017, Ive thought about what NewDay should reasonably do to put things 
right. And any direction I make is intended to put Mr M back in the position he wouldve 
been, had NewDay acted responsibly.
In this situation, Mr M has had the benefit of the principal amount he was lent. So, I think Mr 
M had a responsibility to repay this, in line with the credit agreement. But crucially, if the 
credit limits hadnt been provided, Mr M wouldnt have been able to continue to spend on his 
credit card and incurred interest and charges on the additional amounts he was provided. 
So, I think the interest and charges Mr M incurred after 20 September 2016 on the amount 
over the initial limit of £300 he was provided should be refunded. And 8% statutory interest 
should be applied to any refund Mr M is due. As I dont think Mr M shouldve been provided 
with the increased limits, I also think any negative credit information reported to Mr Ms credit 
file after 20 September 2016 should be removed.
But I dont think NewDay should make an additional payment to compensate Mr M for any 
distress and inconvenience he experienced. This is because NewDay wrote to Mr M and 
made him aware of their intention to increase his credit limit and offered him the chance to 
opt out. And Mr M didnt do this. So, Ive had to take into consideration Mr Ms failure to 
mitigate his own circumstances. But that being said, I still think the ultimate responsibility of 
the limit increases, and the difficulties this caused Mr M, falls on NewDay who suggested the increases in the first place. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about NewDay Ltd and direct 
them to take the following action:
Calculate and refund the interest and charges applied from 20 September 2016 for
any balances in excess of £300 which havent already been refunded;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount; and
Remove any negative information reported to Mr Ms credit file added after 20 
September 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman