DRN-3172783
The complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited settled a claim made against him, when he 
disputed that an accident had happened. And that they didnt keep him updated or advise 
him theyd accepted he was at fault and settled the claim.
What happened
Mr H had motor insurance with esure. On 19 January 2018 he was in traffic when the car in 
front of him stopped due to queuing traffic ahead. The driver of that car claimed that Mr H 
had hit her car. He said there was no contact between the vehicles.
As Mr H disputed that theyd been in an accident, esure arranged for a representative to visit 
his home and take a statement from him about the accident circumstances. In this 
statement, which Mr H signed, he said he wasnt sure if the vehicles touched, but he didnt 
feel any impact.
Based on the account of the accident Mr H had provided esure decided theyd probably 
been an impact between the two vehicles, although this would have been at a low speed. So 
they agreed to deal with the other drivers claim.
esure instructed solicitors to deal with the claim. On 2 January 2019 the solicitors wrote to 
Mr H telling him that the other drivers claim had been settled. Mr H says he thought this 
letter meant that his account had been accepted and the matter was closed.
He says that he only became aware that the claim had been settled against his policy in 
February 2021. Hed changed insurer but didnt declare the incident as he didnt realise a 
fault claim had been recorded against his policy. But his new insurers found details of the 
claim on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database and doubled his insurance 
premium.
Mr H complained to esure who accepted they hadnt kept him fully advised of the progress of 
the claim. They apologised for this and paid him £150 compensation. But they said his policy 
gave them the right to take over and settle any claims made against him. And given the 
accident circumstances they didnt feel that this was a claim they could have successfully 
defended. So they maintained that their decision to settle the other drivers claim was 
correct.
Mr H was unhappy with esures response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and said the terms of Mr Hs policy gave esure the right to settle the 
claim, without his consent. But having considered the interview notes and vehicle inspection 
report, she was satisfied that esure had handled the claim fairly.
She accepted that esure could have communicated better with Mr H and advised him once 
the claim had been settled. But she felt the £150 compensation esure had offered for this 
was reasonable.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has now come to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to decide who was responsible for an accident. Our role is to consider 
whether esure carried out a reasonable investigation of the claim, before agreeing to settle it.
Mr H had told them he didnt think he was responsible for the accident. So to confirm what 
happened esure arranged to take a statement from him. The accident happened in queuing 
traffic. Mr H says in his statement that he wasnt sure if the vehicles touched. It was close, 
but he didnt feel any impact. Given that the other driver said Mr H had hit the rear of her 
vehicle, and Mr H wasnt sure if thered been a collision. I think it was reasonable for esure to 
conclude that this was a claim they wouldnt be able to successfully defend. And they took 
steps to confirm his account before reaching this decision.
Mr H has said that esure should have asked for his agreement before they settled the claim, 
as they knew he disputed that he was at fault. The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy give 
esure authority to take over and settle any claim. The policy says, We have full discretion in 
the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings that arise and we may take over, 
defend or settle the claim. Mr H agreed to this when he took out his policy with esure, so 
they didnt need to seek his agreement before reaching a settlement.
esure settled the claim and recorded it as a fault claim against Mr Hs policy. And they 
recorded details of the claim on the CUE database. They accurately recorded this as a fault 
claim, so Im not going to say they need to take any action to remove or amend this entry.
Mr H says he didnt realise a fault claim had been recorded against him until he changed 
insurers in February 2021, and they found details of the claim on the CUE database. But on 
2 January 2019 the solicitors esure had instructed, wrote to him saying the other drivers 
claim had been settled, and his involvement in the case was at an end. 
He says he thought they were saying his account of the accident had been accepted and the 
case was over. I think the solicitors letter is quite clear. And if he didnt understand the letter, 
Mr H could have spoken to either the solicitors or esure. 
esure accept that they didnt keep Mr H updated about the progress of his claim. So what I 
need to consider is whether the £150 theyve paid him is enough, to compensate him for any 
distress and inconvenience he suffered. And I think it is, as Mr H was aware of the claim, he 
was advised in January 2019 that it had been settled, and Im persuaded that esure correctly 
recorded it as a fault claim. So I wont be asking esure to do anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman