DRN-2711604
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, applied a refund to his credit account 
in such a way as to be materially disadvantageous for him.  
What happened
Mr T holds a credit account with PayPal. In June 2020, Mr T made a purchase using that 
credit account for approximately £215. However, a few days later the transaction that Mr T 
had made was cancelled and the purchase amount was refunded to his PayPal credit 
account. But when Mr T checked his account, he noticed that PayPal hadnt allocated the 
refund to the recent payment that Mr T had made, but to earlier payments, even though 
these earlier payments had promotional rates of 0% interest that werent due to expire until 
roughly 12 months later.
Mr T wasnt happy about this, especially as the recent purchase he had made had 
promotional rate of 0% interest that was due to expire in November 2020  much sooner 
than the expiry date of the balances PayPal had cleared by applying the refund to them. So, 
he made a complaint.
PayPal looked at Mr Ts complaint, but they felt that they had applied the terms of the credit 
account correctly, and that Mr T hadnt been disadvantaged, so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mr T had been 
disadvantaged by how PayPal had chosen to apply the refund to his credit account, and they 
recognised the inconvenience that Mr T had incurred trying to resolve this matter with 
PayPal. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ts favour and that 
PayPal should make a payment of £150 to Mr T by way of compensation.
PayPal didnt agree with the view put forward by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the statements of the account that Mr T has provided to this service, that 
immediately prior to making the purchase in June 2020, Mr T had several balances 
outstanding on his account totalling approximately £400. These balances were all 
promotional offer balances with interest rates of 0% being applied until defined expiry dates, 
and these expiry dates were all in either June or September 2021.
The next statement on the account shows that the refund of approximately £215 had been 
applied to the account, and that the majority of these previously existing outstanding 
balances which had a promotional 0% interest expiry date in June 2021 had been cleared  
although the outstanding balance with an expiry date in September 2021 remains.
However, also on this statement is an outstanding balance for the approximate amount of 
£215, corresponding to the recent purchase that was made and then refunded to the 
account. And it was this purchase amount that was refunded and used by PayPal to clear 
the balances with June 2021 expiry dates, as explained above. 
Its notable that while this approximately £215 outstanding balance does benefit from a 
promotional offer of 0% interest, the expiry date for this offer is in November 2020, which is 
much sooner that the June 2021 expiry date of the balances that PayPal cleared using the 
refunded amount.
So it is the case that in applying the refund to Mr Ts account in the manner that they did, 
PayPal did disadvantage Mr T, because they cleared balances with promotional offers of 0% 
interest that ended in June 2021, rather than clearing the balance on the transaction that had 
actually been refunded which had a promotional offer of 0% interest that ended in November 
2020. This meant that Mr T had less time to benefit from the 0% interest rate offers than he 
should have done.
And PayPals Credit Agreement terms and conditions confirm that:
Where two Promotional Balance Transactions have the same interest rate, the soonest
expiring will be repaid first.
But that didnt happen in this instance, and so its difficult for me to agree with PayPals 
assertion that they applied the terms of the credit account correctly here. Because if they 
had, then the recent transaction balance, which had an expiry date of November 2020 would 
have been repaid, and the balances which benefited from a June 2021 expiry date would 
have remained as they were. And indeed, this is the very basis of Mr Ts complaint.
PayPal have contended that Mr T wasnt disadvantaged because he did make a payment to 
clear the balance in October 2020, before the promotional 0% interest rate offer expired in 
November 2020 - the following month. But Mr T shouldnt have needed to make this 
payment in October 2020, but rather should have been able to retain those funds for his own 
use, should he have so wanted, until the later promotional offer expiry dates became due in 
June and September 2021.
Mr T has also complained about how PayPal handled the complaint that he made to them. I 
can understand Mr Ts frustrations here but given that this aspect of his complaint is about 
the complaint handling process of PayPal, it falls outside the remit of this service and 
therefore isnt something that I can look at. The rules that this service operate under are 
clearly defined, and complaints about how complaints have been handled arent something 
were allowed to consider. 
However, Im satisfied from the aspects of this complaint that I can look at  including 
everything explained above  that the £150 compensation recommended previously by our 
investigator does represent a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, in light of the 
trouble and upset that Mr T has incurred here, and so I will be upholding this complaint on 
that basis. 
Putting things right
PayPal must pay £150 compensation to Mr T.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint against PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman