DRN-2734510
The complaint and what happened 
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to his 
credit card account; in particular when he missed payments which resulted in arrears 
correspondence and other debt letters being sent to him. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Over several months, Mr A missed making minimum repayments to his credit card 
account. He also went over the credit limit on several occasions. Co-op sent Mr A 
arrears notices and let him know when he was over the limit or payments needed to 
be brought up to date. 
In June 2018, Mr A was asked to bring his account up to date, or a default notice 
would be issued. Mr A subsequently cleared the arrears on the account. The Co-op 
wrote to Mr A on 22 June 2018 notifying him the card had been cancelled as it hadnt 
been used in accordance with the terms and condition. Further, the letter said the 
balance would need to be repaid before the account could be closed. Mr A is 
unhappy he wasnt notified in advance of the account being closed. 
Since then Mr A has been making payments to his account, with the odd payment 
missed. He also been sent persistent debt letters. He is unhappy with these letters as 
he feels they are a form of harassment. 
The credit limit on the card has also been reduced a number of occasions, which Mr 
A believes is impacting his credit utilisation and therefore his credit score.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied Co-op was acting 
within the terms and conditions of the account. 
Latterly, Mr A has said he feels victimised and indirectly discriminated against through 
systemic racism from the bank. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Mr A did miss minimum repayments on his credit card account, and he went over the 
agreed credit limit on several occasions. Where an account holder is in arrears, 
lenders are required to send out arrears notices. I dont find Co-op did anything 
wrong in writing to Mr A when he missed a payment, needed to bring his account up 
to date, or when he went over the limit. 
The letter sent on 8 June 2018 was not a default notice itself, but notification that one 
would be sent if the account wasnt brought up to date or a payment arrangement 
agreed within seven days. There is no legal time frame applicable to such a 
notification, as there is for a default notice itself (which is required to give 28 days for 
the account holder to put matters right). I understand Mr A cleared his arrears and as 
such it wasnt necessary to issue a default notice or default the account  Mr A hasnt 
sought to argue, nor has he provided evidence, to the contrary.
Although the account wasnt defaulted where information is provided to credit 
reference agencies, that information is required to be accurate. Clearing arrears, 
doesnt mean the recording of previous missed payments, or going over the limit is 
removed. So Im satisfied that its right for Mr As credit information to show that 
adverse information. I have seen nothing that would lead me to conclude it was 
incorrect. 
Mr A is unhappy that he wasnt notified in advance of his credit card account being 
closed. Its my understanding the account hasnt actually been closed  but Mr A is 
no longer allowed to spend on it as he didnt operate it within the account terms and 
conditions (as he missed repayments when due and exceeded the credit limit). 
Indeed, I understand it cant be closed until the balance is repaid. So what Co-op has 
done is restrict Mr As access to credit under the account, something which its terms 
and conditions allow it to do. Whilst I accept and understand Mr A is very unhappy 
about that, it is essentially for a lender to decide whether or not it wants to continue 
providing credit, and that isnt a decision I would generally interfere with. 
Mr A is unhappy that he has been sent persistent debt letters and considers this a 
form of harassment. And he is unhappy as a payment arrangement has been 
recorded that he never agreed to. I disagree with Mr A that he is being harassed. 
Under measures introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority, all lenders are 
required to write out to account holders when they are in persistent debt. As it is 
obligated to correspond about that, I dont find it was harassing Mr A  it was simply 
complying with its obligations. And whilst he may not have agreed a set repayment 
arrangement with the Co-op, both parties will need to work together to come to a 
mutually acceptable payment arrangement. Or, if Mr A would prefer, he can contact 
one of the many organisations that can help with debt, such as StepChange.
Mr A is concerned about his level of credit utilisation and believes this is being 
affected by Co-ops continued reduction of his credit limit. I understand the point Mr A 
is making, as this can form part of a credit score. But it only forms a small part of any 
credit score with other factors, such as missed payments, going over the credit limit 
and such like, having a far greater impact. And if Mr A does apply for credit, its his 
repayment record, and keeping within the limit, as well as other factors, that a lender 
will take into account when deciding to lend. Whilst I understand Mr As concerns, 
Co-op is nevertheless able to reduce a credit limit under the terms and conditions of 
the account.  
Mr A is also unhappy that Co-op didnt provide any breathing space during the 
pandemic. I have considered this carefully and am aware that Co-op waived interest 
for all of its customers for two months, which I consider to be a positive step. I 
understand that if its customers needed assistance, they needed to apply for it. I 
havent seen any evidence, nor has Mr A sought to argue, that he applied for 
assistance. In the circumstances I dont find Co-op did anything wrong.  
Finally I note that latterly, Mr A has said that he feels victimised and indirectly 
discriminated against through systemic racism from the bank. I cant see that Mr A 
has ever raised that concern with the bank. He will need to make a complaint about 
that to the bank if he wants that matter considered further. And if he remains 
unhappy with its response, he can refer that matter here.
I do understand that Mr A got into financial difficulties which meant he wasnt able to keep up 
with repayments at the relevant time.  But Im not persuaded that Co-op has done anything 
wrong such that I would uphold this complaint or make an award.    
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman