DRN-4028388
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his home insurance policy.   
For ease of reading any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for.
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his home insurance policy as he had a leak outside his home 
address from a water pipe. But when his insurer, Admiral, looked into the matter for him it 
turned his claim down. This was because it felt the leak was caused by wear and tear which 
wasnt covered under the policy. As Mr G didnt agree he complained to Admiral and then 
this Service about this.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and upheld it. She could see Admiral had 
appointed an engineer to look into the claim, but she didnt feel that its evidence was 
sufficient to show that the leak was caused by wear and tear. So, she asked it to accept the 
claim and pay for the works Mr G had already undertaken after it declined the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, plus 8% simple interest.
As Admiral didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Admiral, but Ill explain why.
Although I can understand Admirals position and I accept that lead pipes such as Mr Gs 
can suffer wear and tear I dont think it has sufficient evidence to support its position. As our 
investigator outlined its experts report is short on detail and Mr G has questioned how 
thorough the investigation was. I can see that Admiral has subsequently provided some 
photographs in support of its position but there isnt any real explanation from its expert as to 
why they feel the leak was purely down to wear and tear. And without this it is difficult to say 
it has acted fairly in the circumstances of this case. 
Indeed, Admiral has said Whilst I agree the report is not as detailed as we would hope 
before going on to provide a general commentary as to why the kind of pipe used often 
suffers wear and tear. But I dont find this persuasive. I would expect its expert report to 
provide a detailed explanation as to what parts of the pipe were affected by wear and tear 
and why this caused the damage. And even after our investigator outlined this weakness in 
its report it hasnt looked to gain anything further from its expert to support its position which 
I wouldve expected it to do. 
Ultimately, I dont think Admiral has provided sufficient evidence to fairly show that it can rely 
on the exclusion for wear and tear in this particular case. Given all of this, I agree that 
Admiral should pay the costs Mr G incurred having to put things right (subject to reasonable 
proof) in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Plus, it should pay 8% 
simple interest for the time he has been without the money.
My final decision
It follows for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay the costs Mr G incurred after it declined the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (subject to reasonable proof). And it 
should pay 8% simple interest from the time of claim until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman