DRN-3882934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Lloyds Bank PLC undervalued their house, for mortgage 
purposes. And they complain about what happened when they tried to appeal this valuation.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs V, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr V. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr V told us hed applied for a remortgage with Lloyds, and wanted to add extra borrowing, 
for a separate upcoming family expense. But he said the valuation that Lloyds used for his 
property was around 20% lower than he was expecting, and left him unable to borrow as 
much as he wanted. Mr V wanted to appeal that valuation.
Mr V told us he spoke to the complaints team, and then sent his further evidence, but no one 
ever replied. He just got a letter without any detail, saying his complaint had been resolved. 
Mr V wanted Lloyds to reconsider the valuation of his property, and if the appeal was 
successful, to advance further borrowing to 75% loan to value based on the new valuation, 
at the original mortgage product rate.
Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it didnt value the property, it instructed 
professionals to do this, and relied on their valuation. Mr V then said he wanted to appeal, 
and Lloyds explained its criteria for that. But it would only accept an appeal if Mr V could 
identify sales of three comparable properties, ideally within the six months prior to the date of 
valuation but no longer than twelve months. The properties had to be in close proximity to Mr 
Vs home, and comparable in size, condition and number of bedrooms. 
Lloyds said that Mr V just didnt have such comparisons. What he sent was index valuations, 
which Lloyds wouldnt consider as comparable. So Mr Vs complaint wasnt upheld. Lloyds 
said it had then sent Mr V a standard letter, giving him rights to come to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that our service could 
only look at the actions of Lloyds, not those of the surveyor, which doesnt fall within the 
jurisdiction of our service. She said shed checked, and Lloyds had appointed a survey 
company with appropriate professional accreditation. When Mr V wasnt happy with the 
valuation, Lloyds told him what he needed to supply to appeal the valuation. But, as Lloyds 
had said, what Mr V had just didnt meet those criteria.
Our investigator said that Lloyds notes said it had called Mr V, and explained it wouldnt 
uphold his complaint. Those notes said Mr V accepted Lloyds explanation, and agreed to 
his complaint being closed. A short letter just acknowledging this position was then sent to 
him. Mr V had sent information for Lloyds to review after this call, but this was the same 
information hed supplied earlier. 
Our investigator appreciated it was disappointing to get a valuation so much lower than Mr V 
expected, and lower than hed been given elsewhere, but she said these valuations were for 
different purposes. And she thought it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the valuation it had 
commissioned, and which was based on an inspection of Mr Vs property. Our investigator 
thought Lloyds had handled Mr Vs valuation and subsequent appeal fairly. She thought it 
would have been better customer service if the person Mr V spoke to about his appeal and 
resent documentation to, had then contacted him to explain why Lloyds couldnt continue 
with the appeal. But that person had confirmed they would only call Mr V if Lloyds were 
going to review the decision, so she didnt think Lloyds needed to take any further action. 
Mr V didnt agree. He made two points in reply. The first point was that he simply wasnt able 
to provide sales evidence, and hed expect Lloyds to consider alternative evidence when 
there just werent any recent sales. He felt that the surveyor Lloyds instructed had applied an 
overly simplistic approach to the valuation. And the second point was that Mr V said he didnt 
agree to the complaint being closed on 17 February. 
Our investigator asked Lloyds about this, and it suggested Mr V could complain to the 
surveyor involved. It also sent our service the calls it had with Mr V on 17 February. 
Our investigator then wrote to Mr V again. She said Lloyds would only accept evidence of 
recent sale prices of similar properties, as strong evidence is required for the surveyor to 
review their previous findings. And she told Mr V he could complain to the surveyor directly.
Our investigator said shed listened to the relevant calls, and she thought Lloyds call handler 
had provided a clear explanation of Lloyds valuation policy, and hed also said Lloyds would 
write to Mr V. But the call handler hadnt explained that the letter would be the last stage in 
Mr Vs complaint, or that his complaint would then be marked as resolved.
Our investigator still thought it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to appoint appropriately 
accredited surveyors to complete the valuation, and then to rely on their professional 
opinion. She thought Lloyds could have explained the closure of Mr Vs complaint more 
clearly, but the end position would have been the same, Mr Vs complaint still wouldnt have 
been upheld by Lloyds.
Mr V said he wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He also said he 
wanted to explore whether he could complain to the survey company, so our investigator 
asked Lloyds about that. In reply, Lloyds then said Mr V couldnt complain directly to the 
survey company after all. And it also changed its position on this complaint. It said that in 
fact Mr V could never have appealed the initial valuation of his property. 
This case then came to me. And I reached a provisional decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold part of it. This is what I said then: 
I should start by dealing with the issue that I would expect Mr and Mrs V will be most 
concerned about in this case  whether it was unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to rely 
on the valuation of their property that it commissioned from a survey company. And I 
just dont think it was. Lloyds isnt an expert in property values, so it hired a firm that 
does have the appropriate professional accreditation. And its relied on what that firm 
says. I dont think thats an unfair or unreasonable approach for Lloyds to apply.
I know that Mr and Mrs V wanted to be able to appeal that valuation, and Lloyds told 
them they could do so. From the internal notes Ive seen, it seems as if Lloyds rejected 
this appeal without passing it to the survey company for review, because Mr and Mrs V werent able to show recent sales of comparable properties. Given that Mr and Mrs V 
were asking Lloyds to query the decision of a professional, in an area where Lloyds 
doesnt carry expertise, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to set quite a high bar 
for appeals, and to decide that Mr and Mrs V unfortunately didnt get over that bar.
For these reasons, I dont think that Lloyds has to revisit Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage 
application now, and increase the amount it will lend to them against their property. I 
dont think this part of their complaint should be upheld.
But its now not clear to me whether Mr and Mrs V could ever have been successful in 
an appeal, because at a rather late stage, Lloyds has said it doesnt allow appeals 
against valuations for this sort of mortgage application. So it looks as if Mr and Mrs V 
spent time and effort engaging with an appeal which was never likely to be accepted.
I also note that Mr and Mrs V never received a full response to their complaint, just an 
acknowledgement, which didnt explain Lloyds position. I dont think that was an 
appropriate way to follow up the two calls that Lloyds had with Mr V on 17 February. 
Although Lloyds call handler did explain the different purposes of a valuation for sale 
and one for mortgage purposes, I think Mr V would have been left with the impression 
that Lloyds was still very actively considering his appeal. So I do think it was then poor 
service to close his complaint without at least noting that these further considerations 
hadnt changed anything.
And finally, I do think Lloyds is responsible for giving Mr V the impression that he could 
complain to the survey company, which its now said isnt possible either.
So, although I dont think Lloyds has to reopen Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage application, I 
do think that it has provided them with poor service, and should pay some compensation 
for that. I think a payment of £150 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
part of their complaint, which I do think should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. But Mr V replied to say that he and Mrs V did not.
Mr V said he wanted to share with me information to show he had sent Lloyds more than a 
simple index valuation. He said he had told Lloyds he was concerned that its valuer had just 
applied a particular house price indexation figure to his previous mortgage valuation, which 
he didnt think would provide a good measure of the value of his individual property. 
Mr V said hed sent all the details that were available for recent local sales (although these 
were some time ago) and a valuation based on an algorithm that Mr V thought was more 
accurate. Mr V said this should have triggered an appeal, otherwise as someone who lives in 
an area with low turnover of housing, he would be locked out of any appeals process. Mr V 
said hed been clear that he would have been happy to pay any additional costs involved. 
Mr V said that Lloyds complaint handler had accepted that Lloyds does instruct down 
valuations to protect its position, which he felt was inherently unfair and misleading. Mr V said that Lloyds hadnt made this clear in any advertising or contractual material that Lloyds 
provided as part of the application. 
Mr V said the application was made so he could raise funds to buy an overseas home, and 
that meant time was of the essence, so it was difficult for him to just restart elsewhere. He 
said he would have done that, however, if hed realised an appeal would never be heard.
Mr V said he still felt that the right resolution in this case was for the valuation appeal to 
proceed, so he got an independent review. And if the valuation (as at the date of application) 
was higher, he should be put in the same financial position hed have been in, if his 
application had gone ahead then, based on the revised figure. Mr V said compensation of 
£150 for such a fundamental issue, causing him severe financial detriment, didnt feel 
appropriate or fair.
I understand Mr V feels very strongly that his home is worth considerably more than Lloyds 
valued it at. Mr V has told us he has some expertise in property valuations, and although 
Lloyds referred specifically to the index valuations hed shared with it, Im aware that hes 
also sent Lloyds a number of different ways of measuring the value of his home, including 
what he considers to be all the information available on comparable recent sales, as well as 
the marketing opinion of a local estate agent. So I understand why he thinks the valuation 
Lloyds used over-generalised, and didnt properly reflect what hed be likely to achieve if he 
sold the property. 
But this complaint is brought against Lloyds. And, at its core, what Mr V is complaining about 
isnt something that Lloyds did. Its a decision made by the valuer Lloyds instructed. I cannot 
consider a complaint against the valuer here, I can only look at what Lloyds did. Lloyds 
instructed a valuation, and when that valuation was done, it relied upon it. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont think thats an unfair or unreasonable action for Lloyds to have 
taken. 
Mr V said that Lloyds was asking its valuers to provide down valuations. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Lloyds is asking its surveyors and valuers to deliberately undervalue 
properties its considering lending on. But I do think that when Lloyds asks for a mortgage 
valuation, its got quite a specific purpose in mind. 
Lloyds wants to be sure that the property provides adequate security for its lending. In a 
worst case scenario, lenders want to know that the property they are lending on can be sold 
at a price which will allow them to recover what was lent. And lenders also need to bear in 
mind that its often in everyones best interest for a house to be sold fairly quickly, before any 
mortgage debt rises further. I think thats what Lloyds was seeking to explain to Mr V on the 
call Ive listened to, when it explained that its valuations are sometimes lower than the price 
the homeowner may achieve on sale, but it doesnt think that means those valuations were 
wrong. They were just done on a different basis, and for a different purpose.
I realise that Mr V would say that in this case, the difference in this case between the 
valuation he would put on the property (for all the reasons hes set out) and that which 
Lloyds obtained was just too high. And thats why Mr V wanted Lloyds to allow him to appeal 
this decision. But again, I have to bear in mind that what Mr V is trying to change here isnt 
Lloyds decision. Its the decision of professionals that Lloyds engaged.
Not all lenders have a form of appeal against mortgage valuations. Lloyds does, but it sets 
quite a high bar for those. And I explained in my provisional decision that, because Mr and 
Mrs V were asking Lloyds to query the decision of a professional, in an area where Lloyds 
doesnt carry expertise, I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable on the part of Lloyds to 
set quite a high bar for that, and in this case, to say Mr V couldnt appeal. Mr V said the compensation Id suggested wasnt anywhere near enough for what had gone 
wrong here. But when I suggested that Lloyds should make a payment of £150 in this case, 
it wasnt because I thought Lloyds had wrongly decided only to lend Mr V rather less than he 
wanted to borrow. I havent upheld Mr Vs complaint about that. I suggested a payment of 
compensation here because I dont think Lloyds handled things well, when Mr V objected to 
its valuation. And I still think £150 is an appropriate amount in this case to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome, on the small part of this complaint that I do think should be upheld.
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr and Mrs V £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman