DRN-3796562
The complaint
Mr L complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund him for transactions he said he 
didnt make.
What happened
On 2 July 2022, Mr L contacted Revolut through in-app chat. He told Revolut that he and his 
wife had been robbed while abroad, and the thieves had taken their phones, wallets, bag 
and some personal items. His Revolut card had been among the items stolen, so after going 
to the police, Mr L logged in to his Revolut account to check it, and blocked the account. But 
there had already been several transactions which Mr L said he hadnt authorised, totalling 
1393.61 Canadian dollars. Mr L waited a long time on chat for an adviser, and had difficulties 
when he did get through. He asked Revolut to raise a chargeback for the fraudulent 
transactions.
Mr L sent Revolut a copy of the police report, and completed Revoluts chargeback 
application forms on 7 July. On 26 July, Revolut told Mr L that it wasnt going to refund him. 
It said that it hadnt been able to find any traces of fraudulent activity on his account. But 
Revolut said that it appreciated the difficulties Mr L had had, and refunded his annual 
Premium subscription fee.
Mr L wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He set out what had happened with the 
robbery, and said that hed been trying to get Revolut to resolve the issue since the day it 
happened, but it had shown no sign of wanting to help, and had not been empathetic. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L had told her that he hadnt written 
down, or stored, his PIN, and he hadnt shared it with anyone. He said hed been careful to 
protect the PIN when entering it. As the last genuine transaction had been over an hour 
before the disputed transactions, the investigator thought it was unlikely that anyone had 
obtained Mr Ls PIN by watching him enter it. There hadnt been any incorrect PIN attempts, 
so it was likely that whoever carried out the disputed transactions knew the PIN.
The investigator noted that Mr L had said his phone was secured using Face ID and a 
passcode, and no-one else had access to his Revolut app. The investigator also commented 
that the online banking records showed that Mr L regularly logged into his watch, and hed 
enabled push notifications before the disputed transactions  so Mr L would have known 
what had happened immediately. As the disputed transactions had been authorised using Mr 
Ls genuine card and PIN, the investigator couldnt establish how any third party could have 
known carried out the transactions. She thought it was likely Mr L had authorised the 
disputed transactions himself. 
Mr L didnt accept this. He said that the thieves who had stolen his phone, had accessed it 
after Mr L had blocked it and deleted it from his iCloud account. Mr L had received social 
media notifications a few hours after hed blocked and deleted the phone, saying that 
someone had accessed his accounts and had started using them using a different sort of 
phone from the one stolen from Mr L. Mr L also said that he didnt have a smart watch.
The investigator contacted Revolut. Revolut explained that the document it had sent us 
which referred to Mr L logging on using watch wasnt a reference to a smart watch. 
Watch referred instead to a name which Revolut used for one of its feature which enabled 
customers to see multiple currencies to keep track of rates etc. So Mr L logging in to watch 
didnt mean hed been logging in using a smart watch.
The investigator apologised to Mr L about the misunderstanding about the watch app.  But 
she said that there was still no plausible compromise for the PIN, which was how the 
disputed transactions had been carried out.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in July 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Revolut) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Revolut has provided computer evidence 
and shown that Mr Ls genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the 
disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive considered whether or not its 
more likely than not that a third party, or Mr L himself, authorised the transactions.
I recognise that Mr L reported theft to the local police, and Ive seen the translated police 
report which Mr L made, about having multiple items stolen while on the beach in front of a 
hotel. The key element in deciding who authorised the disputed transactions, however, is 
technical computer evidence. The disputed transactions were carried out using Mr Ls 
registered phone. And that was secured using biometric data  in other words, Mr Ls 
personal physical characteristics. I cant see how a third party could have accessed Mr Ls 
account and carried out the transactions, even if theyd been in possession of the phone.
Technical evidence also shows that the authentication for the disputed transactions was 
done using Mr Ls correct PIN. Mr L said his PIN wasnt written down, or stored anywhere. 
Revolut also told us that in order to see a cards PIN code on the app, theyd have had 
successfully to sign in using biometric data, then carry out various processes including 
inputting Mr Ls Revolut passcode. Revolut provided us with technical evidence which shows 
that no-one accessed Mr Ls cards PIN in this way. And in any case, the phone and the app 
were protected by Mr Ls biometric data. 
So I cant see how any third party can have carried out the disputed transactions. As I 
consider its more likely than not that Mr L carried out the transactions himself, I do not 
uphold Mr Ls complaint and do not require Revolut to refund him.
For completeness, Ill also deal with another point which Mr L raised. He said that all Revolut 
had to do was to raise a chargeback to the credit card scheme for the disputed transactions, 
and the cost would then be covered by the card schemes insurance. He said hed talked to 
other banks who had said theyd have reimbursed him, and Revolut seemed to be the only 
one who wouldnt help, even though it wouldnt have been the one paying for the charges. But it isnt just a matter of Revolut forwarding Mr Ls claim to the credit card scheme,  and 
their insurers automatically picking up the cost. A chargeback is the process by which 
settlement disputes are resolved between a card issuer (here, Revolut) and merchants (the 
businesses to which the customer made the card payment) under the relevant card scheme. 
It can also be used to try to resolve some settlement disputes, without needing to resort to 
more formal resolution like court action. Examples would be if goods never arrived; or goods 
were faulty; or it a merchant processed a payment twice. The card issuer looks at the list of 
potential reasons under the chargeback scheme, to assess whether a successful claim is 
likely. Card issuers dont have to raise a chargeback. Its a voluntary scheme, and the card 
issuer would normally take into account whether theres any reasonable prospect of success 
 because chargebacks arent always successful. Given the circumstances here, with no 
clear way in which anyone other than Mr L could have authorised the disputed transactions, I 
dont consider Revolut had to raise a chargeback when it considered there was no 
reasonable prospect of success.
Finally, I can see that Mr L did have difficulties when he reported the incident to Revolut. For 
example, it was more than four hours into the chat before an advisor started to take full 
details of the disputed transactions, and I can see that Mr L wasnt happy about subsequent 
service either. In Revoluts final response did, however, refund him for his annual Premium 
Subscription fee, which I find was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman