DRN-3659118
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society staff treated him in branch.
What happened
Mr P wanted to close his Nationwide accounts and receive the money held therein. Hed 
spoken with Nationwide about this on the telephone and had been told that he needed to 
visit a branch. However, when Mr P went into branch, he was told by staff there that he 
needed to follow an online process. Mr P wasnt happy about this, and he felt that the branch 
manager was obstructive and was speaking to him in a derogatory manner. The interaction 
between Mr P and the branch staff deteriorated, which resulted in Mr P being asked to leave 
the branch without being able to withdraw the money in his accounts and close them. Mr P 
wasnt happy about what happened, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ps complaint. But they felt that their staff had tried to help Mr P but 
that he had spoken to them aggressively, and because of this Nationwide didnt feel that 
their staff had acted unfairly by asking Mr P to leave the branch. Mr P wasnt satisfied with 
Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that it could be 
impartially said that Nationwide had acted unfairly towards Mr P in how their staff had 
managed the situation, and so they didnt feel that they could uphold the complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Mr P feels very strongly about this matter, and I can 
understand how he may have felt he wasnt being treated or spoken to by Nationwides 
branch staff in a manner that he should be entitled to expect. 
However, its very difficult for me to uphold this complaint as Mr P would like here, and this is 
because I wasnt present in branch at the time of Mr Ps visit, and because the only available 
evidence as to what happened are the conflicting testimonies of Mr P and Nationwides staff.
This isnt to say Im disregarding Mr Ps explanation of what happened. But, the impartial 
nature of this service means that I wouldnt accept at face value any one version of events 
put forwards over any other version, without reasonable cause to do so. And in this instance, 
because I wasnt present during the events under consideration, and because no form of 
recording exists which would confirm what took place, I dont feel I have a reasonable cause 
to disregard either the version of events put forwards by Mr P or the conflicting version of 
events put forwards by Nationwides staff members. 
And I hope Mr P will understand that, in the absence of confirming evidence, if I were to 
accept his testimony as to what happened and disregard the testimony put forwards by 
Nationwides staff, or vice versa, that I wouldnt be acting impartially in doing so.
What does seem clear is that Mr P appears to have been given information on how he could 
close his accounts when he spoke with Nationwide on the telephone that was different to the 
process that Nationwides staff felt needed to be followed when Mr P arrived at branch. And 
it seems that Nationwides branch staff not following the process that Mr P had previously 
been advised needed to be followed ignited the disagreement that then took place. 
Nationwide have been able to demonstrate that Mr P held two accounts, and that one of 
these accounts was an internet only administered account. This meant that, in order for Mr P 
to be able withdraw the money from this account as he wanted, the balance of that internet 
administered account had to be first transferred to the other account that Mr P held, from 
which it was permitted by the terms of that account to withdraw cash in branch.
But, while this explains why Nationwide might not have been able to action Mr Ps request to 
withdraw his money as quickly as he would have liked, and how a communication 
breakdown in regard to this point may have led to the deterioration in the interaction between 
Mr P and Nationwide that then occurred, it doesnt shed any light on exactly how Mr P was 
spoken to by Nationwide staff or how Mr P spoke to Nationwides staff in response. 
However, regardless of how the interaction between Mr P and Nationwide deteriorated, if 
Nationwides staff did feel for whatever reason that Mr P was acting in an aggressive or 
threatening manner  even if Mr P had a reasonable cause to have felt distressed  I would 
feel that it was fair for Nationwides staff to have asked Mr P to have left the branch at that 
time, even if this meant that his request to close his accounts remained incomplete.   
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but given all the above it 
remains my position that  given the conflicting testimonies and lack of confirmatory 
evidence here  there simply isnt enough information or evidence available to me for me to 
reasonably accept either his or Nationwides version of events over the other. And it follows 
from this that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman