DRN-3904390
The complaint
Mr S has complained Sainsburys Bank plc didnt make him aware hed pay a fee of 1% on 
his credit card balance transfer.
What happened
After seeing a 0% balance transfer offer for a Sainsburys credit card, Mr S applied. The 
third-party site linked to Sainsburys own website and Mr S was then told either a 0% or 1% 
balance transfer offer would apply depending on circumstances.
Mr S applied for a credit card.
Mr S was accepted for a credit card but with a 1% balance transfer fee. Mr S then used the 
balance transfer and found hed been charged £51. He complained to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys confirmed the terms and conditions of Mr Ss credit card showed a 1% fee would 
be applicable. Mr S thought hed been misled and complained to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed the evidence showed Mr S had accepted the terms and conditions 
and signed all the relevant paperwork (albeit electronically). He didnt think the charges were 
unclear and wouldnt be asking Sainsburys to do anything further.
Mr S has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He felt the difference between what 
hed initially applied for and what hed got hadnt been adequately explained to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Before Mr S applied on Sainsburys own website for the credit card, the information clearly 
stated that either a 0% or 1% balance transfer fee would apply. This would depend on the 
offer Sainsburys would make. Its not unusual for credit card providers to make 
assessments on their prospective customers based on the information they then find out.
At the time of application, Mr S was sent all the pre-contract information which I believe 
made it clear that a 1% balance transfer fee would apply. This is also noted on page 2 of the 
Summary Box under charges. 
Mr S disagrees and he believes the contract was in small print. That may be so, but key 
information and costs are clearly noted on the Summary Box information. He doesnt dispute 
that he confirmed to Sainsburys that hed read the information he was sent.
I dont agree there was an obligation to highlight specifically that Mr Ss offer was for a credit 
card with a 1% balance transfer fee, rather than 0%. The information on Sainsburys 
website, before Mr S applied, confirmed both pricing options were available so I dont think 
its unreasonable for Mr S to have checked what charges would apply. Particularly as he was 
keen to make use of the balance transfer option.
Overall I dont think Sainsburys have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Sainsburys Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman