DRN-3698616
The complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined his
claim for rent protection.
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised
whats happened.
Mr P has a Landlord rent protection policy. Its underwritten by RSA. 
The policy started on 9 June 2020. In September 2020, Mr P made a claim on his 
policy as the current tenant had been in arrears since August 2020. 
RSA said it wasnt going to cover the claim because the arrears occurred in the first 
90 days of cover starting. It said it would reconsider the claim if Mr P could show 
equivalent cover was in place immediately before the policy started.
Mr P provided RSA with details for his previous insurers. Company A underwrote the 
rent protection guarantee which ran until July 2020.  
RSA considered it but said whilst there was continuous cover, it wasnt comparable. 
It said the previous rent protection guarantee policy was specifically for a previous 
tenant who had been named in it. It said Mr P, therefore, wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim for the tenant who was in arrears under the Company As policy.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr P brought a complaint to this Service.
An Investigator looked at it. He said RSAs policy provided cover for the tenant 
specified on the tenancy agreement, whereas the previous policy covered the tenant 
named on the policy schedule. Because of this difference, the Investigator thought 
the policies werent comparable and that RSA had fairly declined the claim.
Mr P remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to reach a
different outcome to that of the Investigator and Ill explain why.
The key issue in this complaint is whether its fair for RSA to rely on an exclusion in 
respect of rent protection to decline Mr Ps claim. The exclusion says:
The insurer will not pay claims arising out of or in connection with any dispute arising
a) during the first 90 days of the first period of insurance, if the tenancy 
agreement commented before the inception date of this policy; or
b) arising during the first 90 days of the first period of insurance, unless it 
can be evidenced that you previously held comparable legal expenses 
cover with another insurer immediately prior to inception of this policy.
Its not in dispute that Mr P held LEI with another provider immediately before the 
inception of his policy with RSA. But RSA argue its not comparable and so the 
exclusion applies.
Ive looked at the policies. Having done so, Im not persuaded by RSAs argument. 
Ultimately, both policies provide LEI cover which includes rent protection. So, Im 
satisfied both policies were designed to work in the same way.
Whats pertinent here is that the exclusion doesnt require the policies to be the same 
 rather that they are comparable. So, although RSA has in correspondence 
focussed on the previous policy not being equivalent to the current one, thats not 
what the exclusion requires it to be.
I dont consider the nuance of Mr Ps previous insurer only providing cover if the 
tenant was named on the policy schedule as a significant enough difference to RSAs 
policy to lead me to say the policies arent comparable. Particularly as the chances of 
having two LEI policies which deal with rent protection in the same way is slim.
Ultimately, its enough for the policies to be comparable and from what Ive seen Im 
satisfied they are. So, I dont think RSA has applied the exclusion fairly and it should 
reconsider the claim (subject to the remaining terms and conditions) without 
reference to this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and will direct Royal & Sun
Alliance Insurance Limited to reconsider the claim without reference to the exclusion which is
the subject matter of this complaint.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. RSA said it remained of the opinion that the 
two policies werent comparable. It added the change in tenant happened during the height 
of the pandemic and therefore, there would have had to have been a period between the 
previous tenant vacating the property and the new tenant occupying it which would have 
meant a beak in the policy. 
In his response, Mr P explained the impact the situation had on his family both personally 
and financially. He said the rental income from the property in question had been used to 
financially support his parents in their retirement. And so, RSAs unwillingness to settle the 
claim put additional pressure on his family at what became a very difficult time due to the 
unexpected passing of his father. Having considered the responses, I explained that I wouldnt direct RSA to pay 
compensation for inconvenience and distress experienced by third parties  namely, Mr Ps 
mother - or that which is reasonably to be expected when dealing with a claim such as this. 
However, I recognised that this claim has continued for a period of approximately two years 
and has been a source of ongoing stress for Mr P. Because of that, I said £500 
compensation would fairly reflect the difficulties Mr P has experienced. RSA didnt 
specifically comment on the matter of compensation, other than to say its opinion remained 
the same that theyd declined the claim fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to depart from my previous findings, but Ill add some further 
clarity as to why Ive reached the decision I have.
I accept that in its strict interpretation Mr P may have found it difficult to claim under 
Company As policy for rent arrears if a condition was that the tenant had to be named on 
the policy. But applying it in this way would lead to an unfair result whereby Mr P would find 
himself without cover from either Company A or RSA  even though he ultimately, had the 
kind of cover he needed in place; the previous policy provided cover for rent arrears due 
from the tenant, and RSAs policy provides the same kind of cover.
In my provisional decision, I highlighted the exclusion RSA is seeking to rely on requires the 
cover to be comparable, not the same. And that I didnt consider Company As requirement 
that the tenant be named on the rent guarantee to be so significant it could be deemed 
incomparable to RSAs policy. Whats key is that ultimately, both policies provided rent 
protection in the event a tenant went into arrears.
Im not persuaded by RSAs argument that restrictions imposed by Covid  namely, that 
there had to be a longer period between tenants vacating and new tenants moving in - 
meant there was a break in cover. Whats key here is whether the polices continuously 
covered the period in question  which they do.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied, for the reasons previously 
explained, that £500 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My decision remains that RSA should reconsider the claim without reference to the exclusion 
that its seeking to rely on.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to reconsider the claim without reference to the exclusion which is 
the subject matter of this complaint. 
It must also pay Mr P £500 compensation. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must 
pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell Mr P accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman