DRN-2604865
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited avoided (treated it as if it never 
existed) her motor insurance policy and refused to pay her claim. Shes also unhappy with 
how it handled the claim. She wants Soteria to honour its offer to settle her claim. 
What happened
Miss H took out a motor insurance policy with Soteria through an intermediary. When her car 
was damaged after hitting a pothole, she tried to claim on her policy. Soteria initially 
accepted the claim and started the process of assessing the needed repairs. It later decided 
that Miss Hs car was beyond economical repair and so it made Miss H an offer for her cars 
pre-accident value. 
But, following validation checks, Soteria declined Miss Hs claim, avoided her policy and kept 
the premiums shed already paid. When Miss H complained it said shed answered the 
question shed been asked about previous claims within the past five years incorrectly. And 
that it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid her policy and refuse her claim. 
Miss H brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And he thought this was deliberate or 
reckless. So he said Soteria was entitled to void Miss Hs policy, refuse her claim and retain 
her premiums. 
Miss H replied that she didnt agree as Soteria had told her in phone calls and emails that it 
was dealing with her claim. She thought it should honour this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Hs financial problems. I can see that our investigator has 
already provided information about agencies that may be able to assist her. 
I can see that Soteria initially accepted Miss Hs claim. But I think Soteria was entitled to 
validate Miss Hs claim and act on what it found out. So I think Soteria isnt obliged to honour 
its initial offer to accept the claim.
Soteria investigated Miss Hs driving history. It found that shed changed her name by deed 
poll, which Miss H said shed told Soteria. And it found that Miss H had undeclared 
convictions. But the reason Soteria avoided the policy was because it also found that Miss H 
had three undisclosed claims in her previous name.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Soteria thinks Miss H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in her application via an intermediary she hadnt had any claims within the past 
five years. 
And Ive looked at the question she was asked when she completed the application and I 
agree she failed to take reasonable care. This is because she was asked: 
Have you or any person who will drive been involved in any accident or suffered any loss 
(whether to blame or not) involving a motor vehicle - whether or not the subject of an 
insurance claim - in the last five years?
And I think this was a clear question asked by Soteria through the intermediary Miss H used. 
I can also see that the intermediary sent Miss H an email after she took out her policy when 
her policy was cancelled in error and then reinstated. The email asked Miss H to check her 
policy details were correct, including any claims / convictions in the last 5 years.
Miss H replied no to the question and I cant see that she corrected the error on her policy 
statement. But Soteria has shown that Miss H had been involved in three incidents in the 
past five years. She told us that shed forgotten the first incident from 2017. And she said 
she didnt think she needed to declare the other two as one was non-fault and she said she 
hadnt made a claim in the second. But Soteria has shown that her insurer paid an outlay for 
this claim. So I think Miss H should have declared all three incidents to Soteria. 
And I think this means Miss H failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she said she hadnt been involved in any incidents in the previous 
five years. 
Soteria has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Miss H had not 
made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered her cover. This means I am satisfied 
that Miss Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Miss Hs misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This 
is because I think Miss H must have realised that she had been involved in the last two 
incidents and so needed to disclose them.  
Therefore, Im satisfied Soteria was entitled to avoid Miss Hs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Soteria does not have 
to deal with her claim following the incident. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Soteria to rely on it to avoid Miss Hs 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Miss H was also unhappy with Soterias handling of her claim. I can see that there were 
some delays whilst it assessed her cars damage. These were firstly because further 
damage was identified and had to be assessed. But I think Soteria then authorised the repairs promptly. It then found that damage had been caused in a previous incident and this 
had to be assessed. And this led to Soteria deciding that the car was beyond economical 
repair. I can understand that Miss H felt confused and stressed during this time. But I cant 
say that Soteria was responsible for avoidable delays in her claim. 
I can see that Soteria apologised to Miss H for errors connected to the claim validation and 
its decision not to settle her claim. This included telling Miss H that it would settle her claim 
and then changing its mind. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I 
dont think the errors warrant compensation or that Soteria needs to settle Miss Hs claim 
because of them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman