DRN-1317301
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC changed the phone number associated with his 
current account to his partners.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr C took out a joint insurance policy with his partner. Lloyds says Mr C's 
partner's number was incorrectly added to his bank account records. Mr Cs partner received 
Lloyds text messages regarding his account from that point on. 
In May 2019 Mr C contacted Lloyds about the issue and it apologised that his number wasnt 
correct. Lloyds initially paid Mr C £150 plus £10 costs and said the telephone number had 
been updated and corrected. 
A short time later a card transaction was blocked and Lloyds contacted Mr Cs partners 
phone. Mr C complained again and Lloyds relooked at what had happened. Lloyds removed 
the account block, apologised and paid him a further £300 plus £7 for expenses and 
corrected the number associated with his account. 
Lloyds has paid a total of £450 plus costs to Mr C in recognition of the issues he raised and 
corrected the telephone number on his account. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and that the compensation awarded was 
reasonable. Mr C has asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C feels that Lloyds investigation was poor and that he wants more answers 
about what happened. But Lloyds has explained that a joint insurance policy Mr C holds with 
his partner had their telephone number associated with it. Due to a technical issue, Mr Cs 
partner's number was added to his current account in error. As a result, Mr Cs partner 
received text messages in relation to his account. 
The contact notes Ive seen indicate that Lloyds missed an opportunity to fix the problem 
when Mr C first complained in May 2019. Lloyds paid Mr C £150 to apologise and told him 
the number would be amended. But that didnt happen and Mr Cs account was blocked due 
to a transaction that was picked up by Lloyds fraud department. As a result, Lloyds relooked 
at his concerns and increased the compensation offered to Mr C by £300. 
Mr C says he isnt satisfied that Lloyds has got to the root cause of the issues he 
experienced. Mr C feels Lloyds failed to fully answer his complaint. I understand Mr Cs 
concerns and that he still feels there are inconsistencies in Lloyds response to his 
complaint. But Im satisfied Lloyds has given us as much information as it has concerning what happened. Lloyds sent Mr Cs partner text messages that shouldve been sent to him. 
Its clear that the nature of those messages was confidential and that Mr Cs information 
was shared when it shouldnt have been. In addition, Mr C's account was blocked. But the 
error now appears to be fixed and Mr Cs partner is no longer receiving his messages. 
I now need to decide whether Lloyds' response to Mr Cs complaint is fair. I can see that the 
situation caused Mr C a reasonable amount of inconvenience. Mr Cs told us he had to visit 
his parents to arrange to pay a bill and his current account was unnecessarily blocked. I've 
also taken into account that confidential information was shared with Mr C's partner. So I 
think its fair that Lloyds compensate Mr C for what happened. Lloyds has paid Mr C a total 
of £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors as well as £17 for expenses. 
I understand my decision will likely disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt with his 
complaint fairly. Lloyds has resolved the error that meant his partner was sent text 
messages intended for him. Lloyds has also compensated Mr C for his expenses and paid 
him £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think that £450 fairly reflects the 
impact of Lloyds error on Mr C and is fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied Lloyds 
has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, resolved the technical issue and paid a reasonable 
level of compensation, Im not going to tell it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman