DRN-4060961
The complaint
Mr M complains about the amount he received for his car from Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited when it was written off following an accident.
What happened
Mr M had insurance for his car with Watford. In June 2022 he was involved in an accident 
and made a claim on his policy. His car was assessed and deemed to be a total loss. Mr Ms 
car was initially valued at £5,343. But Watford reviewed this and based on the average of 
three trade guides increased their valuation to £7,678. They then deducted 20%, £1,535, 
from this figure as the car had previously been classed as a total loss. So Mr M was offered 
a settlement of £6,143.
Mr M wasnt happy with this figure and the deductions made, as he hadnt had the car for 
long, hed paid £8,000 for it, and needed this amount to buy an equivalent replacement. So 
he raised a complaint.
Watford didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyd reviewed their initial valuation and 
considered their valuation of £7,678, an increase of £2,335 on the initial amount offered, to 
be fair. From this theyd deducted £1,535, as his car had previously been declared a total 
loss, which was in line with his policy terms and conditions. So they considered their offer of 
£6,143 to be reasonable. Their letter confirmed that this payment was subject to the 
deduction of any outstanding payments due on his annual premium and his policy excess.
Mr Ms policy schedule confirms that his annual premium was £2,388.72 and his policy 
excess was £400. His premium was paid monthly.
Watford have told us that a payment of £4,583.98 was issued to Mr M on 15 September 
2022. When he made his claim, they say there was a balance of £1,159.02 still outstanding 
in respect of his annual premium, so this and his £400 policy excess were deducted from the 
settlement offer.
As Watford didnt uphold his complaint Mr M complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Watfords valuation of 
£7,678 was fair, based on three motor trade guides. And he thought the deductions theyd 
made from this amount were also fair. 
Mr Ms car had previously been categorised as a total loss. Even though it had been 
repaired to a high standard, and was roadworthy, our investigator said the deduction of 20% 
for the previous total loss was in line with what we consider fair. And he considered the 
deductions for the balance of the outstanding premium and Mr Ms policy excess were also 
fair. So while the £4,583.98 was less than Mr M expected to receive, our investigator didnt 
require Watford to pay anything more.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators opinion as he said he insured his car for £8,150 and 
wouldnt accept anything less. And because he didnt receive this amount, he believes he 
was sold his insurance on false terms.
Since our investigator provided their opinion Watford have confirmed that when carrying out 
their valuations of Mr Ms car their searches showed that the car had been a previous total 
loss.
Theyve said that when buying a car a customer would be responsible for checking that the 
car is above board and has not previously been written off and isnt subject to outstanding 
finance. And theyve said that there are checks that can be done, although a fee may be 
payable. Theyve also said that theres a link on a vehicles registration document (V5c) to a 
website where a vehicle check can be requested.
Mr M has told us he didnt know the car was a previous write off. The seller didnt tell him 
and as it was in near perfect condition, he had no reason to think it had been written off. He 
believes Watford only raised this as they didnt want to pay out for his car.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is disappointed by the amount the received for his car, especially 
as hes now told us that the other drivers insurers have accepted liability for the accident. 
But Im not considering the accident circumstances, or who was at fault. Mr M made a claim 
on his policy for his car, so what Im considering is whether Watford carried out a fair 
valuation, and if the deductions they made from that valuation were correct.
The initial valuation of Mr Ms car, given by Watfords salvage agents appears to have been 
too low. But Watford reviewed this and provided an updated valuation, based on the market 
value of the car using three trades guides. And theyve provided copies of these valuations. 
This is how wed expect them to arrive at their valuation. And I think their increased valuation 
of £7,698 was fair.
I know Mr M says hed insured his car for £8,150 and he wont accept less. But thats not 
how insurance works. In the event of his car being deemed a total loss his policy says 
Watford will pay the market value of his car. And if the claim is settled on a total loss basis, 
hell be liable to pay his full annual premium and his policy excess, which Watford reserve 
the right to deduct from the settlement due to him. 
Having arrived at a valuation for his car, Watford then deducted 20% as it had previously 
been deemed a total loss. Mr M has told us he wasnt aware the car had previously been 
written off, as the seller didnt tell him and there was nothing to alert him to this, as the car 
was in near perfect condition. 
We expect a consumer buying a second-hand vehicle to take reasonable care, and as a 
minimum wed usually expect them to show theyve carried out some form of check on the 
cars history. Mr M didnt do this, he relied on the vehicle being in good condition and says 
the seller didnt tell him about the cars history. Vehicles checks are simple and cheap to 
carry out online. And as he was paying over £8,000 for the car, I think Mr M should have 
checked the cars history. Had he done so hed have become aware that it was a previous 
write-off. I cant say that this would have affected his decision to buy the car, or the price he 
paid, but it may have done. 
The fact that a car has previously been written-off can put off potential buyers, no matter 
how well its been repaired. This can affect its value. So wed say it was reasonable for Watford to make a deduction of up to 20%. And I think it was reasonable for Watford to 
make a deduction in this case, as Mr M hadnt carried out any checks before buying the car. 
Mr M has complained that Watford made a deduction from the cars valuation as it had high 
mileage. The valuation report recommended a deduction of £780 be made due to excess 
mileage. As the car had a recorded mileage of 95,350 miles, against a guide mileage of 
76,000 miles for a car of its age. We usually say a 0.5% adjustment per 1000 miles above 
average mileage was reasonable. But Watford dont appear to have deducted this amount 
from the settlement offer they made to Mr M, even though they were entitled to do so.
Deducting 20% from Watfords valuation meant they offered Mr M £6,143 for his car. But the 
policy then allows Watford to deduct Mr Ms policy excess of £400. And as he was paying his 
premium by monthly instalments, the balance of his annual premium, which was £1,159.02. 
So, the final amount Mr M received was £4,583.98.
While this was less than Mr M expected to receive, and I appreciate the comments hes 
made about this not being enough to purchase an equivalent replacement car, the 
deductions are all in line with his policy terms and conditions, so I cant ask Watford to pay 
him anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman