DRN-1422039
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1998.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed with that view. 
He said BOS wouldnt let him sign the application for the credit card without adding the PPI 
policy. As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
PPI was sold to Mr B during a meeting between the parties. I cant know what was said in 
that meeting, so to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mr B 
told us about it. And Ive also looked at the documentary evidence thats available from the 
time. In making my decision, Ive applied the balance of probabilities. That means Ive 
decided whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence before me. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr B would have known the PPI was optional and 
he could have refused it if he wanted to. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr B said 
about BOS telling him the PPI was mandatory. I dont doubt that his recollection is genuinely 
held, but I also have to bear in mind that it is difficult to recall precisely what happened over 
20 years ago, which is when this policy was sold. 
I can see from the application form that there were two equally prominent boxes to complete 
 one to say he wanted a PPI policy and another to say he did not. Mr B has signed and 
dated to accept the PPI policy. I can see that his signature is just above the no box and so I 
think hed have seen that when he signed the document irrespective of who had completed 
the personal details. So if PPI had been presented as Mr B recalls, I think hed have queried 
why there was an option to refuse cover on the application form. 
Looking at the form, Mr B would have had to make a decision about whether to apply for PPI 
or not. It may be that he recalls being told to choose whether he wanted cover  not that he 
had to select the policy. Although I appreciate this conflicts with Mr Bs honest recollection, I 
think its most likely he would have known he could have refused the cover if he wanted to. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale  that puts greater responsibility on BOS because it 
means it had to make sure the cover was right for Mr Bs needs. To help me decide whether 
the policy was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions. And Ive also thought about 
what we know about Mr Bs personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
If Mr B had to make a claim on the PPI, 10% of his balance would have been repaid for 
every month he was out of work because of ill health or if he was made redundant. The 
policy would have lasted for a maximum of 12 months. 
In the PPI questionnaire, if he was off sick, Mr B told us hed have received more than 6 
months full pay, but less than 12 months. He was able to be more specific in the 
questionnaire he sent to BOS in which he said that he would have received three months full 
pay and nine months half pay. I can also see from that questionnaire that Mr B had some 
savings that were the equivalent of around one months net salary. So looking at all of that, it 
seems to me that the PPI would have offered cover to Mr B that was over and above the 
means he already had in place. 
Mr B told us he was in good health when he took the cover out, so I dont think he would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything else that was unusual about his circumstances that would have stopped him 
from making a successful claim if he needed to. Overall, I think the cover generally was 
suitable for Mr B. 
BOS also had to make sure that Mr B was given enough information about the cover so he 
could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible that Mr B wasnt told everything he 
should have been. For example, the application form doesnt clearly set out the cost of the 
PPI and its not clear that Mr B would have to pay interest on the cost of the premiums if he 
didnt repay his balance in full. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. Ive set out above how I 
think PPI could have been helpful for Mr B at what would have no doubt been a stressful 
time for him if he was out of work. So it follows that I dont think Mr B would have acted 
differently even if hed been given more or better information about the cover.
With all of that in mind, I cant uphold the complaint. I dont need to tell BOS to take any 
further action in respect of it.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
21 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman