DRN-3053282
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy because Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) made mid-term changes to her 
insurance policy which she doesnt think is permitted within the contract terms. Any 
reference in my decision to actions by Aviva includes those of any party acting on its behalf. 
Any reference to Ms Bs actions includes those of her broker.
What happened
Through her broker, Ms B took out a Commercial Property Owners insurance policy with 
Aviva for her commercial rental property. At her annual renewal, Ms B told Aviva the 
property was unoccupied. Aviva still offered the policy, but it applied the Unoccupied 
Premises Cover Restriction, which limited cover to fire, lightning, explosion and earthquake 
only.
Four months into the policy, Ms B let Aviva know that the property was occupied again. 
Aviva reinstated full cover under the policy. However, Ms B complained that the excess for 
each of escape of water and storm/flood had increased to £2,500. Aviva reduced the escape 
of water excess to the original £500, but it kept the storm/flood excess at £2,500. Ms B 
complained that it was unfair to increase the excess after shed bought the policy.
Aviva looked into Ms Bs complaint and said that it had made two mid-term adjustments 
because of changes in material facts. The first was to increase the level of cover once the 
property was occupied and the second was to reduce the escape of water excess. Aviva 
said the adjustments were made in line with the policy terms.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. She thought that Aviva had made the 
changes in line with the policy terms and there was no evidence that it had treated Ms B 
unfairly.
Ms B didnt agree. She said she also had an excess of £2,500 for loss of rent, so if damage 
was caused by a storm, her total excess for a claim would be £5,000. Ms B felt that if this 
was in line with the terms of the policy, then the term itself was unfair.  
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva made mid-term adjustments in line with the policy 
terms and conditions for the reasons it gave, and whether, in the circumstances, it was fair to 
do so. Its not within my remit to say whether the excess Aviva applied is an appropriate 
amount because that is a commercial decision based on its assessment of the level of risk.
Theres no dispute that the policy renewed at a limited level of cover because the property 
was unoccupied at the time. The issue is that Ms B doesnt think it was fair that Aviva made 
changes to her policy excesses after she notified it of a change in occupancy a few months 
after renewal.
Ive looked at the policy documents which confirm Ms Bs obligations include the following:
You must also tell Us about any facts or changes which affect Your insurance and which 
have occurred either since the Policy started or since the last renewal date.
Ms B had renewed her policy on the basis that the property wasnt occupied so, in line with 
her obligations, she told Aviva when her property became occupied four months into the 
policy term.
I then looked to see whether Aviva was entitled to make mid-term amendments to the level 
of cover having received Ms Bs notification of a change. The policy states:
Alteration of Risk
You or Your broker must tell Us immediately if during the Period of Insurance there is any 
alteration in risk or to the facts which You disclosed when You took out this Policy, which 
materially affects the risk of injury, loss, Damage or liability which would fall within the 
Policy cover. This includes but is not limited to alterations to the Business or The 
Premises. When You tell Us about an alteration in risk, We may apply additional terms and 
conditions to this Policy (including but not limited to premium) or, if the risk is unacceptable 
to Us, We may cancel the Policy
It's clear that this agreed policy term provides for changes to the terms and conditions where 
Aviva receives notification of a change in risk.
So, Im satisfied that Aviva made changes in line with the terms and conditions of the 
existing policy after receiving confirmation from Ms B of a change in risk at her property.
Was it fair in the circumstances?
Ms B doesnt think Aviva needed to make any changes to the policy because the 
unoccupancy endorsement couldve just remained in place. She said it just wouldnt apply 
when the property was occupied.
I understand the point shes making but I dont agree. When the policy renewed, it was 
based on the risk presented by an unoccupied property for a basic level of cover. Aviva 
explained to Ms B that, once the property became occupied, it reassessed the risk of 
providing standard cover, which included cover for escape of water and storm. It went on to 
explain that because she had an open storm claim from the previous policy year, it decided 
the risk was greater and increased the excesses for escape of water and storm/flood above 
the standard level to reflect that. It wouldnt have been taken into consideration when Ms B 
first renewed the policy because Aviva wasnt providing cover for those perils while the 
property was unoccupied.
As Ive said, I cant consider the actual amount at which Aviva set the excess. However, I 
see that after Ms B complained, it reduced the escape of water excess. That was because 
her open claim was for storm damage, so the
endorsement for escape of water didnt need to be applied. The storm/flood excess 
remained because of the claim history. I think thats fair in the circumstances.Finally, Ms B says she did not change the terms of cover, so the policy term which allowed 
Aviva to make the adjustment for no reason was itself unfair. As Ive explained, though, Ms B 
did make a change to the policy cover. She wanted cover for an occupied property rather 
than an unoccupied property. So, it was reasonable that Aviva reassessed the risk and 
adjusted the policy accordingly.
Having considered the overall circumstances set out here, and Avivas explanation to Ms B, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Aviva treated her unfairly when it made a mid-term 
adjustment to her policy. The evidence shows that Aviva made the adjustment in line with 
the policy terms and conditions when the level of risk changed, so I see no reason to make a 
requirement of it in respect of Ms Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman