DRN-2104955
The complaint
Mrs C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs C bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs C says she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account, and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it if it had been offered. She says the store card 
application form was filled in on her behalf, and she simply signed where she was told 
to. Ive noted everything Mrs C has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed with Mrs C when the 
store card was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty years 
ago and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Mrs C has told me that she turned down PPI in connection with her mortgage. She 
considers this demonstrates she was unlikely to take out PPI on a store card. But Im 
mindful that the store card agreement Mrs C signed was completed to show that she 
wanted the PPI. Taking that into account, Im not persuaded I should automatically 
conclude that Mrs C wouldnt have bought PPI in connection with the store card.
I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Mrs C took out the card, but its 
equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mrs C may no longer 
remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since the policy was sold. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs C has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that AXA didnt make her aware the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs C might have had to 
cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs C would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman