DRN-1986409
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with Chubb European Group SEs actions in relation to a claim on his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
After Mr Ms claim was originally turned down  because the phone hed bought 
wasnt covered under the terms of the policy  it was accepted his insurance policy 
should have been cancelled. It was ultimately determined a full refund of premiums 
from December 2014 when Mr M was no longer eligible to claim on his insurance, 
plus 8% interest, was appropriate. Chubb calculated this figure to be £865.05 in 
May 2020. Based on everything Ive seen I agree its appropriate for the refund to be 
applied  though as this figure included 8% interest, Chubb will need to recalculate 
the figure to the date of settlement.
 
Our investigator also recommended £100 compensation. Chubb didnt agree  
saying because they were refunding Mr M it seems as though theyre accepting 
responsibility for what happened, but theyre not. They argue it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to be aware of the terms, and it was right his claim was turned down. I 
understand why Chubb would say this, but I think theyre missing the point. Had they 
cancelled Mr Ms insurance policy like they should have done in December 2014, 
Mr M wouldnt have the same issues hes experienced with trying to make a claim. 
So, I think compensation is appropriate.
But Mr M also didnt agree the compensation awarded by our investigator of £100 
was fair. He said hed spent hours on the phone to Chubb, doesnt think theyve 
investigated matters properly, and believes theyve lied to him. He also said he had 
to get money from elsewhere to pay for a new phone. He felt a total of £1,200 
compensation (including the refund of premiums above) was fairer. I see where Mr M 
is coming from, but inevitably with any insurance claim there will be a degree of 
inconvenience. And while I agree with him Chubb havent handled things well, taking 
into account all the factors of the case I think £100 is fair.
Putting things right
Refund of insurance premiums paid from December 2014 to date  paying 8% 
interest from the date of each payment, to the date of settlement
 
Pay £100 compensation to Mr M
HM Revenue & Customs requires Chubb to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. Chubb must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks them for one.
My final decision
For these reasons my decision is to uphold this complaint and order Chubb European Group 
SE to carry out the actions set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman