DRN-3141027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain TSB Bank plc stopped them accessing their account meaning Mr C 
was unable to access his pension or make transactions.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C live in Canada and have a joint account which they opened many years ago.
On 22 August 2020 Mr C complained to TSB that one-time passcodes he needed to 
authorise transactions werent coming through, that hed tried calling numerous times and 
that hed been left waiting for too long. He said that he was missing out on investments and 
property transactions as a result because he couldnt get access to his money and that the 
problem had been going on since 2018.
TSB started investigating Mr Cs complaint, and suggested he consider using telephone 
banking in the meantime. In October 2020, TSB replied to Mr Ss complaint saying that it 
wasnt able to send one-time passcodes to Canadian mobile phones at the time he 
complained, that this was a problem it was aware of and had been looking into and that it 
had now solved the problem. TSB apologised for the inconvenience that Mr C had been 
caused in the meantime and offered him £125 in compensation. Mr C wasnt happy with 
TSBs response including the compensation offered, so he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and said they didnt think it would be 
fair to ask TSB to do more. They didnt think that it was unreasonable that TSB didnt have a 
solution at the time Mr C complained and didnt think the temporary solution TSB had offered 
was unreasonable. They thought that the compensation TSB had offered was fair too. Mr C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB introduced one-time passcodes so that its customers could authenticate  in line with 
strong customer authentication  in September 2019.
Ive seen an email Mr C sent to TSB on 22 August 2020 saying that hed tried to call TSB 
that day but was left on hold for an unreasonable time, and that hed tried a number of times 
to make payments earlier on that day and the day before without success. In his email, Mr C 
said he wasnt receiving one-time passcodes to his Canadian landline or mobile number no 
matter what he did. I havent seen any earlier emails from Mr C complaining that he wasnt 
receiving one-time passcodes. Nor have I seen any evidence  other than Mr C saying its 
the case  that hed been having problems with his online banking since 2018. In any event, 
I cant see how he could have been having problems with one-time passcodes as long ago 
as that given that TSB didnt introduce them until September 2019. Im, therefore, satisfied 
that 22 August 2020 was the first time Mr C complained to TSB about one-time passcodes.
TSB has told us that when Mr C complained it wasnt able to send one-time passcodes to 
customers living in the United States, Canada or New Zealand in particular. TSB told Mr C 
that this was a problem that other banks had too  I accept that this was the case. Im 
satisfied, however, that TSB has been able to send one-time passcodes to Canadian mobile 
numbers since 17 September 2020 and that TSB told Mr C that this was the case when it 
replied to his complaint in October 2020. Thats within eight weeks of Mr C complaining to 
TSB  the amount of time TSB is allowed to take to investigate a complaint. Im satisfied, in 
other words, that TSB had solved Mr Cs complaint about not being able to receive one-time 
passcodes by the time it responded to him. TSB offered Mr C £125 by way of compensation.
Mr C told TSB that he was missing out on property transactions and investments because he 
didnt have access to his money. I accept that Mr C wasnt able to authenticate himself using 
strong customer authentication from late August 2020 to the middle of September 2020. 
However, that doesnt mean he couldnt access his money because logging onto his online 
banking and initiating a payment online (which would have needed strong customer 
authentication) werent the only ways he could do so. He was able to make payments using 
his debit card and to initiate faster payments  as his statements for August 2020 and 
September 2020 show he did  too. I accept that accessing his money in these ways might 
not have been inconvenient as it might, for example, have involved having to wait in a call 
queue. But, given that this was a temporary solution whilst TSB worked out how to send 
one-time passcodes to Canadian mobile numbers  and given how quickly TSB worked this 
out  I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable to expect Mr C to use those channels, as he 
in fact did. In coming to this conclusion, Ive also taken into the account the fact that Mr C 
has an account meant for UK residents rather than someone who is living abroad and so it 
might well not work as well for him. But I do want to mention something that Mr C has said. 
Hes told us that its not easy to call TSB because theres an eight-hour time difference  so 
hed have to make a call at 1am to call a branch at 9am. TSB didnt, however, suggest Mr C 
call a particular branch. It suggested he call its telephone banking service, which is open 24 
hours a day, seven days a week. If anything, the time difference is likely to work in Mr Cs 
favour because hes less likely to be calling at times that are popular for UK customers.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman