DRN-3968951
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc have held him liable for payments which
he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr D says that his NatWest debit card was taken from him in the early hours of 22 July 2022.
He says he wouldnt have shared his PIN number unless he was under duress. He says
following contact with NatWest he learned that there had been a series of payments made
totalling around £3,300. There also appears to have been two attempted payments made
through online banking which NatWest blocked.
NatWest investigated but ultimately held Mr D liable for the payments he was disputing.
They said the PIN was entered correctly and so Mr D must have shared this, which would
mean that hed breached his account terms. They also said the pattern of spending wasnt
typical of what is seen with unauthorised account use. Mr D disagreed and referred the
matter to our service. He says his PIN number was the same as the passcode he used to
unlock his phone. So he believes this could have been observed when his card was taken.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Overall, he
didnt think the outcome NatWest had reached was unfair or unreasonable. Mr D still
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
In May 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im intending to reach the same outcome as our Investigator. But as my
reasoning is different, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further
opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
Mr Ds testimony to our Investigator is that he remembers being in a bar, and then he
remembers retrieving his phone from an individual in the vicinity of a train station. He has no
memory of what happened in between and believes he may have been drugged. He
remembers getting a night bus to a petrol station closer to his home. He says he tried to use
his card at that location which was declined. Around that time he realised his phone sim card
had also been removed from his phone and taken. However, he was able to call his partner
for a lift using the free wifi. He says later that morning he realised his online banking was
blocked and he attended a branch and discovered the unauthorised transactions. And at that
time, upon closer inspection he says he noticed he only had his expired card, which had
been put where his active card was usually kept within his wallet. Mr D has also reported this
to the police.
I accept that all of what Mr D has said is possible. And I cant know with 100% certainty how
the payments came to be made. So, I have to make my findings on the balance of
probability, based on what I think is most likely to have happened. With that in mind, I have
some concerns about the reliability of Mr Ds testimony as credible evidence.
NatWests notes show that Mr D told them he let a stranger use his phone. Unfortunately
NatWest havent been able to provide a recording of this call with their Fraud Team, but Ive
no reason to think the notes made at the time wouldnt reflect what was said. This differs to
what Mr D told our Investigator, as mentioned above, he said that he has a gap in his
memory where he remembers being in a bar and then he remembers taking his phone back
from someone. So I cant say Mr Ds testimony has been entirely consistent as hes said
different things at different times. Specifically, that he let someone use his phone but also
that he has no memory of how this person got the phone and just remembers retrieving it.
Further to this Mr D is very clear in a call with our Investigator that Ive listened to, that he
attempted a transaction in the petrol station using his card (which he later discovered was
his expired card) and that this was declined. I asked NatWest if they had a record of there
being attempted use of that card. They confirmed that, as far as their systems were
concerned, there was no attempted use of Mr Ds expired card. I find the technical evidence
from NatWest to be persuasive. I think if Mr D had attempted to use his expired card, as he
said, then there would be a record of this with NatWest. Particularly as they can evidence all
the other payments that did happen/were attempted around that time. The combined impact
of this is that I cant place a lot of weight on Mr Ds testimony as reliable evidence. And even
if I were to accept what Mr D has suggested, specifically that he was drugged and that his
phone passcode being observed was the point of compromise for his PIN number (which
was required to authenticate the disputed payments), I still have a number of further
concerns.
At the time of the disputed transactions, Mr Ds account had a credit balance of over £25,000
(this is after the disputed payments). I can also see that amongst the disputed transactions
there were balance enquiries made at cash machines. When I asked NatWest whether there
was any further attempted use of Mr Ds card after hed reported its theft they said there
wasnt. I find it implausible that a third party who had somehow obtained Mr Ds card and
PIN and had discovered such a significant balance, wouldnt have gone on to attempt to
make further use of the card to maximise their benefit. Similarly, Mr D told us that he had
£40 cash in his wallet when his card was taken and this was left in place. Again, it seems
unusual that a criminal who had gone to the trouble of potentially drugging their victim, taking
their card (and phone SIM card) rearranging the wallet to place the expired card in the slot
where the stolen card was and making unauthorised payments  wouldnt also have taken
the cash that was in the wallet at the same time.
Overall, in these circumstances, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient credible evidence
for me to fairly conclude that the payments Mr D disputes were unauthorised or that there is
a reasonable basis upon which I should direct NatWest to provide a refund. I think its more
likely than not that Mr D had some involvement in the payments he disputes, such that
NatWest holding him liable for them is a fair outcome.
NatWest didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr D provided a response which Ill 
address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made some detailed submissions in response to my provisional decision. Ive read 
and considered everything hes said, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So if I 
dont mention a particular point it isnt because I havent seen or thought about it. Its just that 
I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy 
and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Mr D says that when he originally reported matters to NatWest he was passed between 
multiple agents speaking to around five different people. He says that during these 
conversations he speculated as to what might have happened, and that this has later been 
reported as fact by NatWest. He says he was co-operating in good faith and provided a lot of 
information which wasnt strictly relevant. One example of this being the attempted use of his 
expired card, something he says hed have no reason to lie about and which he feels has 
been used to paint him in a bad light when it is of no relevance to the case itself. 
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision, I cant possibly know with certainty how the 
disputed transactions came to be made. So all my findings are based on the balance of 
probabilities, taking account of the available evidence and information. In cases like this 
where Mr D is seeking repayment of a significant sum from his bank, based largely on his 
testimony, I dont agree that testing the strength of that testimony evidence isnt of 
relevance. 
I accept that there might be minor variations in attempting to remember specific details after 
the event, particularly if being asked to provide an account on more than one occasion. But I 
dont think the examples quoted in my provisional decision are minor variations. Having a 
complete memory gap between being in a bar and then retrieving a phone, compared to 
letting a stranger use the phone are quite distinct and different circumstances. And the issue 
with the attempted use of the debit card, particularly with there being no record of that on 
NatWests systems, means Im not minded to change the outcome of this complaint. I remain 
more persuaded by NatWests evidence.
Mr D has also questioned the reliability of NatWests own evidence, pointing out numerous 
ways in which he says it is incorrect. This includes their reasoning for declining his claim, the 
inability to provide recordings of certain calls, and that NatWest said they would seek a 
prosecution and needed the crime reference number to obtain CCTV (something he says 
hasnt since happened). He also points out the contradiction between NatWest saying the 
pattern of spending wasnt unusual, but then blocking his account and online banking. Again, 
Ive considered this. But the crux of this complaint is whether the outcome NatWest reached, 
in not reimbursing Mr D for the transactions he disputes, is fair. So it isnt a requirement that 
I need to agree with all the reasoning NatWest have provided, just that Im satisfied the 
outcome is fair in all the circumstances. And whilst I acknowledge what Mr D has said, none 
of this impacts my decision to place more weight on the evidence from NatWest. 
Mr D has also said that the criminals did maximise their benefit as transactions continued 
until the card was blocked. But my point here, is that an unknown third party in possession of 
the card, wouldnt know when the blocking of the card took place. And its common from my 
experience of similar cases for further use to be attempted until a transaction declines and 
the third party realises the card has been blocked. There were no further attempts to use the 
card after it had been blocked. Which whilst not 100% conclusive on its own, adds to the 
overall picture here.
Whilst I understand Mr Ds strength of feeling on this matter, and I can quite understand his 
dissatisfaction, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional 
decision. And so Im not going to require NatWest to do anything further to resolve this complaint. Our service is intended as an informal alternative to the courts, and if Mr D rejects 
my decision, it wont be legally binding and he is then free to continue his dispute with 
NatWest through other avenues (such as the courts) should he choose to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman