DRN-3865134
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Transunion International UK Limited recorded incorrect information on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr S says he started work with a firm in September 2021  this work involved Mr S supplying
a service to the firm through his limited company. Soon after starting, background checks
were carried out by the firm and on 6 October 2021, Mr S was asked to stop working as a
result of the checks being unsuccessful. Mr S says the background checks found adverse
information on his Transunion credit report and because of this information, the firm deemed
him a risk. Mr S says he contacted Transunion immediately to let them know the adverse
information on his credit report was incorrect as it didnt relate to him.
Mr S says as a result of this issue, he lost out on 20 days worth of work as he wasnt able to
restart the contract until the information had been removed and further checks were carried
out. Mr S wants to be repaid for the loss of income which he calculated to be around £5,800
 Mr S says this figure is made up of his monthly salary and dividends taken from his limited
company. Mr S also provided us with a copy of a letter from his accountant confirming the
total loss amount. Mr S says this letter cost him £60 so hes asked for this cost to be
reimbursed.
Transunion apologised and said occasionally, their data matching routines wont always find
the right home for an item (or items) of data, which is what happened in Mr S case.
Transunion said this rarely happens and they reassured Mr S that their database had been
corrected.
Our Investigator ultimately said Transunion should pay Mr S the loss he suffered as an
individual rather than the loss his limited company suffered. Mr S told us he would have
earned a basic salary of £737.
Transunion first said they were prepared to pay the £737. But they then told us they made 
corrections to Mr S credit file on 13 October 2021 and that they emailed Mr S on the same 
day confirming the incorrect information had been removed. So Transunion said they werent 
prepared to pay for any losses Mr S may have suffered from 13 October 2021 (when they 
corrected his credit file) to 1 November 2021 (when the contract restarted). Transunion also 
said they werent prepared to pay the fee for the accountants letter that Mr S asked for as it 
was his choice to contact the accountant.
Mr S acknowledged he received the email of 13 October 2021 but said he couldnt view the 
information they said they corrected. Mr S also said he tried to contact Transunion but that 
he wasnt helped over the phone which was frustrating for him. Overall, Mr S disagreed and 
remains of the opinion that Transunion should pay the total loss amount of around £5,800 
that he suffered, as well as the £60 fee he paid for the letter from the accountant. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter, setting out the below:
Its not in dispute here that incorrect information appeared on Mr S credit file. And that this
was an error caused by Transunion, rather than Mr S. Whats left for me to decide is whether
this error had an impact on Mr S and what, if anything, Transunion should do to put things
right for Mr S.
Mr S has provided a copy of the contract he was supplied with from the firm showing he
started work with them on 20 September 2021. And this contract shows the service supplied
to the firm was through Mr S limited company. Mr S has also provided a copy of a letter from
the firm to say full checks were completed on 6 October 2021 and due to adverse
information showing on Mr S Transunion credit report, he was unable to start work again
before 1 November 2021. Having carefully considered this, Im persuaded by this evidence
and Im also persuaded that Mr S wasnt working between 6 October 2021 and 1 November
2021  when the contract recommenced.
Mr S told us he would have earnt a basic salary of £737 a month, but as he was acting
through his own limited company for the contract, the majority of the remaining amount was
taken in dividends as well as the relevant tax paid by limited companies  this is further
supported by the accountants letter. Having looked through the calculations, I can see Mr S
considered what his limited company would have been paid in total, had it not been for the
contract pausing. However, I can only consider the loss Mr S has suffered himself, as an
individual and I cant compensate Mr S for any losses his limited company may have
suffered. I say this because Mr S has brought this complaint to us as an individual, Mr S
limited company isnt a customer of Transunion and the issue at hand here is incorrect
information appearing on Mr S own credit report. As explained, the calculations from both
Mr S and the accountant show Mr S would have earnt £737 for the period he wasnt working
 which was about 20 working days. The other losses in the calculations are those suffered
by the limited company which I cant fairly ask Transunion to pay.
I note Transunion have said they arent prepared to pay Mr S for the time he wasnt working
from 13 October 2021 to 1 November 2021. However, had it not been for the mistake of
incorrect information on Mr S credit file, his contract never would have been paused when
the background checks were carried out on 6 October 2021. Mr S says because of the
unsuccessful checks, he had to wait until further checks were carried out which resulted in
his contract recommencing on 1 November 2021 - I dont find this explanation to be
unreasonable and I also dont think this was something Mr S could control. So, with all this in 
mind, I currently think its fair Transunion pay Mr S what he would have earnt for the whole
period from 6 October 2021 to 1 November 2021 which would have been £737.
I note Mr S asked Transunion to reimburse him the £60 it cost him to get the accountants
letter, which Transunion didnt agree to. Having looked at the accountants invoice for this
letter, I can see the customer of the invoice is Mr S limited company and not Mr S.
Therefore, I cant fairly require Transunion to reimburse Mr S this loss, as it wasnt paid by
him personally, and was invoiced to his limited company.
Lastly, I think it would have been distressing and worrying for Mr S to find that adverse
information had been found on his credit file which led to the background checks not being
successful and resulted in his work being paused. Transunion have acknowledged this was
a data matching error but havent been able to provide a further explanation as to how this
happened. So, for these reasons, I currently think Transunion should pay Mr S £100
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S responded and said the figure of £737 had been used in isolation without considering 
the other losses he set out to us. Mr S also explained the money flow in contracting and 
ultimately reiterated that income from his limited company is paid to him in a mixture of salary, dividends and other expenses. Mr S added the invoice showing the accountants 
letter in May 2022 being billed to his limited company was an error on his part. Mr S said he 
has spoken to his accountant and theyre happy to credit the invoice to him as an individual 
as he wants Transunion to reimburse him with the £60 it cost to get the accountants letter.
Transunion didnt have anything further to add for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr S that I do understand he didnt receive money through dividends. But 
the dividends are from profits earnt by his limited company which the company wasnt able 
to earn as a result of Mr Ss contract being paused. In essence, Mr S hasnt been paid any 
dividends as a result of the limited company not being able to make a profit. While I accept 
the limited companys profits are linked to Mr S being able to work and any loss leads to Mr 
S not getting some of the dividends, the loss of profit is still the loss of the limited company 
and not Mr S personal loss even though he is affected by it. As previously explained, I cant 
fairly require Transunion to pay Mr S for losses his limited company may have suffered. 
I note Mr S has also said the financial loss of £737 was presumed by our Investigator. But I 
can see Mr S confirmed in an email to us of 5 May 2022 that his basic salary for the month 
was £737. So, I dont think it was presumed. I appreciate our Investigator didnt initially think 
Transunion should pay Mr S the dividends amount. But for reasons Ive already explained, I 
dont think this is a loss I can see Mr S himself, has suffered.
I appreciate Mr S point that he made a mistake when instructing the accountant to produce 
the document. But I have to take the evidence on face value  which was the invoice that 
showed Mr S limited company was billed for that letter. Im not persuaded by the further 
evidence Mr S has given that there was an error. With that said, I cant ask Transunion to 
reimburse Mr S for this cost as its not a loss suffered by him.
Putting things right
In summary, I think Transunion should:
Pay Mr S £737 plus pay 8% simple yearly interest on this amount from when Mr S 
would have earnt this money to the date of settlement.*
£100 compensation.
*If Transunion International UK Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve
taken off. They should also provide Mr S with a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Transunion International 
UK Limited to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this 
provisional decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman