DRN-1347654
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was accepted for finance by Close Brothers Limited when he 
shouldnt have been. He believes the finance agreement is void.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers.
Mr D says that when he entered into the agreement, the drivers licence he provided showed 
an incorrect birth date.
Mr D believed that the agreement was void as a result and complained to Close Brothers.
Close Brothers said it wasnt upholding the complaint because the incorrect birth date hadnt 
affected its lending decision.
Mr D wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Since then, hes part 
exchanged the car and says that approximately £2300 of the balance due under the 
agreement has been transferred to a new agreement, which is also with Close Brothers. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the error with the date of birth 
affected Mr Ds ability to pay for the agreement or that Close Brothers would have done 
anything differently had the date of birth been correct.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed been told that if hed had an accident in the car, the 
insurance would be void because of the incorrect date of birth on his agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at a copy of Mr Ds driving licence and Ive also looked at the finance agreement. 
Mr D says that the date of birth on his licence is incorrect and Ive no reason to doubt him.
Mr D doesnt think he should have been given credit because of the incorrect date of birth. In 
order to determine this complaint, I need to consider what wouldve happened if there hadnt 
been an error on the driving licence., and whether Close Brothers would have lent to Mr D 
anyway.
Before deciding whether to advance credit, a lender carries out checks to see whether the 
finance is affordable. In this case, I can see that the incorrect date of birth hasnt impacted 
on Close Brothers ability to carry out these checks. And I dont think the outcome would 
have been any different if his date of birth had been correctly stated on his driving licence, 
because Mr D has subsequently entered into a new finance agreement with Close Brothers  
having informed it of his correct date of birth,.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Close Brothers would have done anything differently in 
relation to the first finance agreement had Mr Ds date of birth been correctly recorded.
Ive noted Mr Ds concerns about his insurance policy. I dont know whether the error on his 
driving licence would have impacted the validity of his insurance policy or not. However, 
based on what Ive seen, Mr D hasnt had an accident or had his insurance voided, so I dont 
think I need to look at events which havent actually happened.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint. I dont think Close Brothers 
has done anything wrong so I wont be asking it to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman