DRN-3563938
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited terminated her student loan after she 
missed a deferment application deadline. 
What happened
Mrs H has told us shed previously deferred her student loan. In early October 2020 Erudio 
wrote to Mrs H and advised the deferment period was ending. On 27 October 2020 Mrs H 
spoke with Erudio and details of the arrears that had accrued were provided. Erudio advised 
Mrs H the loan deferment had ended and a new application was required. Erudio says it 
discussed evidence, like bank statements, Mrs H needed to provide. 
In November and December 2020 Eruido sent Mrs H arrears letters. Erudio said the arrears 
were stopping the age-related loan write off and asked Mrs H to get in touch. 
In January 2021 Erudio sent Mrs H a default notice that said she needed to repay arrears of 
£450.19 by 8 February 2021. No payments or contact were received, so Erudio terminated 
Mrs Hs student loans. 
In March 2021 Mrs H complained to Erudio. Mrs H said shed asked for email 
correspondence previously. Mrs H also said shed missed the deferment deadline due to 
exceptional circumstances and the impact of Covid. Erudio issued a final response on 29 
April 2021 but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They thought Erudio had given 
reasonable notice of the end of the deferment and need for a new application before it 
terminated the agreement. The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint and she asked 
to appeal. As a result, Mrs Hs case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H accepts the deadline for completing the deferment application was missed. I 
understand Mrs Hs circumstances were difficult at during this time. Mrs H has told us that 
her home was flooded, she was experiencing financial difficulties and Covids impact all 
played a part in the situation that led to the deferment deadline being missed. Mrs H has 
also told us she wasnt opening post at the time, due to concerns about Covid. Ive read and 
considered everything Mrs H has told us about what was happening in the background. 
Whilst I dont doubt what Mrs H has told us, I have to be fair to both parties. And I can only 
uphold a complaint if I find that a business has made a mistake or treated a customer 
unfairly. Mrs H had an existing deferment in place that ended at the start of October 2020. 
Before the deferment ended, Erudio sent Mrs H confirmation of what she needed to do to 
arrange another. Erudio also included details of Mrs Hs arrears. 
Mrs H spoke with Erudio on 27 October 2020 and discussed her loan. Erudio confirmed no 
deferment was in place and arrears were increasing. Information about the deferment 
application process was provided. Erudio records that Mrs H agreed to obtain bank 
statements. But no further contact was received from Mrs H. So Erudio sent follow up 
arrears letters that also included a warning that the age related write off had been put at risk. 
Erudio sent Mrs H a default notice that gave warning of its intention to terminate her 
agreement. A final date to clear the arrears was provided but missed. Ultimately, as no 
deferment application had been received, arrears continued to accrue and no further contact 
was received Erudio took the decision to terminate Mrs Hs loans. In my view, Erudio kept 
Mrs H updated about the status of her loan and what it intended to do next at each stage. 
Mrs H has told us she asked for correspondence to be sent by email but Erudio says theres 
no record of that during calls in 2020 and 2021. I understand Mrs H was concerned over 
Covid and opening post. But as I cant find any evidence Erudio was asked to email instead 
of writing, Im unable to agree it acted unfairly. I also think its fair to note that in Mrs Hs 
complaint form shes explained the deferment application was missed due to events that 
were outside of her control, rather than because Erudio had failed to send information about 
her account status. 
Mrs H has clearly been through a difficult time and I understand there were unusual and 
serious pressures acting on her. But, Erudio provided notice going back to 11 September 
2020 to say it hadnt received Mrs Hs deferment application form. Further notice was sent in 
October 2020 and Mrs H went on to discuss the deferment process at the end of the month. 
Given arrears had increased to over £450 by the point Mrs Hs loans were closed Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Erudio to terminate the loan agreements. That stopped 
arrears increasing. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I havent been persuaded that Erudio 
acted unfairly. 
As Im satisfied Erudio dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman