DRN-3604121
The complaint
Mr K complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr K was given a loan by UK Credit as follows:
Date taken Loan amount Number of 
monthly 
instalmentsMonthly 
repayment*Total payable
June 2019 £10,000 60 £330.14 £19,808.40
Mr K told UK Credit the loan was mainly for debt consolidation  in other words, he would 
use the loan to repay other debt. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. In summary, he felt that UK Credit 
hadnt done a proportionate check before lending. He said bank statements Mr K had sent 
us showed he was heavily dependent on borrowing to maintain his finances and supplement 
his income, including using payday loans and regularly drawing down on a running credit 
facility. Our investigator thought that it wasnt responsible to provide further credit to Mr K. 
And he didnt feel that Mr K could benefit from debt consolidation given the overall cost of 
this loan and the five year term. So, he didnt think that UK Credit shouldve provided the 
loan and he recommended upholding the complaint.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said that debt 
consolidation meant Mr K was immediately better off month to month and using its loan for 
this purpose put him in a position where he could afford his monthly repayments rather than 
relying on his overdraft and being in a cycle of borrowing payday loans. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also find 
out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.
 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or 
more money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
In this case, UK Credit asked Mr K about his income and looked at a payslip to verify his 
pay. It asked him about his housing costs and it also carried out its own credit checks. And, 
during a phone call with Mr K (which I've listened to) UK Credit asked about his expenses 
and questioned him about the results of its credit checks to understand his existing credit 
commitments and his credit history. 
UK Credit recorded a figure of around £2,627 net salary per month. After doing its own 
background checks and carrying out its affordability assessment, UK Credit worked out that 
using the loan to consolidate the four loans that were reporting on his credit file (and so 
clearing two of the defaults) meant Mr K should have been left with around £1,278 spare 
cash. 
So this led UK Credit to conclude that the loan monthly repayments should be comfortably 
affordable for Mr K.
Ive taken carefully into account everything UK Credit has said in response to our 
investigators view about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about 
what I think a responsible lender should have made of all the information it had gathered and 
in particular whether it was enough for UK Credit to make a fair decision to lend.
Our investigator thought UK Credit needed to do further checks before agreeing this loan. 
I think he overlooked the fact that UK Credit saw the same bank statements that Mr K also 
sent to us during its loan application process. But I dont think I need to make a finding on 
whether its checks were proportionate or not because I think UK Credit saw enough detail in 
the information it had gathered to realise that Mr K was already in serious financial difficulty 
and that further lending was unlikely to be sustainable. 
I say this because it was aware that Mr K had a history of reliance on expensive high cost 
credit and there were clear signs that he was over-stretched financially. 
Two of Mr Ks three outstanding payday loans had defaulted within the last year. Within the 
last month, after first falling behind with the contractual payments owing some five months 
earlier, a credit card had defaulted - Mr K told UK Credit he had agreed an arrangement to 
pay on that account. 
The bank statements UK Credit saw during the loan application process showed that, in the 
months running up to him applying for this loan, Mr K was borrowing from at least five other 
providers of short-term credit and unsecured instalment loans. 
He was regularly drawing down on a running credit facility  amongst other withdrawals, it 
was apparent that he had used this account to borrow £860 on 2 May and again on 3 June 
2019. To my mind, this pointed to him borrowing from one lender to meet regular 
repayments owing elsewhere which was also borne out by looking at his wider credit history. 
The bank statements UK Credit saw showed that Mr K was making full use of his £2,000 
overdraft facility, typically ending each month just inside his overdraft limit. Sometimes he 
exceeded this limit and he incurred substantial monthly interest, arranged and unarranged 
overdraft fees and unpaid transaction fees  often around £70 or so. I think it was clear to see that Mr Ks use of credit had escalated beyond manageable limits 
and the overall picture was of someone persistently reliant on expensive credit and 
unable to afford the cost of his debt.
UK Credit has argued that using its loan for debt consolidation helped Mr K to improve his 
financial situation by paying off all his loans. It worked out he should save around £390 per 
month and said, the purpose of the consolidation loan was to pay off his live debts and to be 
in a position where he can afford monthly repayments rather than relying on his overdraft 
and in a cycle of borrowing payday loans. 
But I see things differently. One of the payday loans UK Credit expected him to clear had a 
balance of just £119, the payments were up to date and it was due to be cleared with the 
next payment in a month or so. The defaulted loans already had the interest on those 
accounts effectively frozen and these debts were fixed. The other large loan that UK Credit 
allowed for had been taken out around 7 months earlier  Mr K had borrowed £5,000 and he 
currently owed £4,713. Those payments were up to date and that loan was due to be 
cleared in two and a half years.
So I think its hard to see how using this expensive loan to pay these loans was helpful when 
Mr K was signing up to pay £9,808 in interest over the term  bearing in mind that he was 
effectively paying interest on interest and that the cost of the loan was almost as much again 
as the loan amount itself. Also, he was extending the period he would be indebted for a 
further five years  beyond the dates the consolidated live loans were expected to run.
I think the costs of consolidating this debt using this loan and the disadvantages of 
prolonging the time Mr K would likely be indebted significantly outweighed any perceived 
benefit. 
And, despite what UK Credit has said, I dont think I can fairly say that later evidence shows 
that the loan benefitted Mr K. UK Credit has acknowledged that in the following months Mr K 
continued to take out payday borrowing  it said this stopped by the end of 2019. And it said 
Mr K did consolidate the two loans he said he would and that his remaining defaulted credit 
card had a reducing balance and he was shown to be managing his existing credit well. 
But its updated checks show that just two months after taking its loan, in August 2019, Mr K 
took out another substantial instalment loan (£4,250) which he signed up to pay back over 
three years. Effectively, he replaced the large loan he repaid with UK Credits loan by taking 
out an amount broadly similar to the amount he had just repaid. And whilst he repaid this 
loan in December 2020, I havent seen enough to be able to say that he did this without 
needing to borrow elsewhere in order to do so  which seems likely to me looking at the 
available information. Around the same time, an updated credit report from Mr K shows, for 
instance, that he was still reliant on his overdraft, he had gone over his credit limit on a mail 
order account and he was in arrangements to pay on several other accounts  so it seems 
clear he was still struggling to manage his debt.   
The fact Mr K successfully made the loan repayments until his work situation changed 
doesnt mean that he was able to do so sustainably. And even if Mr Ks financial situation 
were to have improved in any real sense since then as UK Credit suggests (which I havent 
seen) it doesnt automatically follow that this must mean the impact of UK Credits loan 
wasnt detrimental to him. 
So I cant reasonably conclude that UK Credits loan enabled Mr K to move away from his 
dependency on high cost borrowing. Rather, as I think was reasonably foreseeable, it added 
significantly to his overall debt, would potentially cost him a lot more in the long run and tied him into an expensive credit arrangement that he faced paying for the next five years and left 
him still needing to keep borrowing in order to finance his debt repayments. 
For all these reasons, I cant reasonably say that UK Credit made a fair lending decision 
based on the information in front of it and I dont think it should have agreed to provide 
this loan to Mr K.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything UK Credit has said, 
including its detailed responses to our investigators view. I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions.
As Mr K has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a 
loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a 
result of what UK Credit did wrong.
So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
Our investigator didnt recommend that UK Credit should pay any additional redress. Mr K 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think UK Credit 
acted unfairly towards Mr K in any other way. So Im not planning on awarding any additional 
redress.
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr K shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. So I've set out below the steps UK Credit 
needs to take to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mr K and UK Credit have acknowledeged my provisional decision and confirmed they 
have nothing further to add. So I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of 
this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
UK Credit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ks credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a 
loan that was unfairly provided. So UK Credit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Ks credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman