DRN-1540527
The complaint
Mrs S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) is responsible for damage caused 
to her boiler - during an annual service carried out under her home emergency insurance 
policy.
What happened
In September 2019, BG carried out an annual service of Mrs S boiler. During the service, its 
engineer damaged the thermostat. Another engineer attended and in his attempt to fix it, he 
caused further damage to her heat-exchanger that meant Mrs S had no heating. Mrs S 
raised a complaint.
BG accepted that it had caused the damage. But said that it couldnt repair the boiler as the 
boiler was very old and some parts of the boiler were obsolete. Mrs S wanted her boiler 
repaired but accepted a quote from BG to replace it instead. BG offered £1,000 contribution 
towards the cost of a new boiler. 
Mrs S didnt accept this as she said that BG were responsible for the damage and it should 
pay for the full cost of a replacement boiler. But she later said that she was prepared to 
accept half of the cost of the boiler. BG was not prepared to increase its offer and so Mrs S 
referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld her complaint. His view was that BG hadnt treated Mrs S fairly. He 
said that BG ought to contribute towards half of the costs of the replacement boiler as well 
as the fitting costs  a total of £1,959.75. He also said that as Mrs S had been 
inconvenienced, BG should pay £150 for the trouble and upset it had caused.  
BG didnt accept our investigators view and increased its offer to include 5 years of central 
heating and annual service cover. Mrs S didnt accept this offer and BG asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BG has accepted that it was responsible for causing the damage to Mrs S boiler. What I 
have noted is that BG effectively damaged Mrs S boiler twice. The first when the initial 
engineer damaged the thermostat and the second when the second engineer damaged the 
heat exchanger which caused a leak that affected Mrs S property. So, I think it is 
appropriate for BG to accept that it caused the damage. 
Both parties accept that the boiler was old and the reason why BG couldnt repair it was due 
to the parts being obsolete. I have reviewed the job sheets and I can see that the boiler had 
been installed in 1998. I can also see that on a few occasions, BG advised Mrs S to change 
her boiler. But the last time BG advised Mrs S to change her boiler was at least three years 
before her boiler was damaged by them. 
Additionally, there were at least two annual services carried out by BG before the service 
that caused damage, where BG were satisfied that it was working without any issues. 
So although it is accepted by both parties that at some point Mrs S wouldve had to have 
changed her boiler. I havent seen enough evidence to say that the boiler wouldve needed 
to be changed, at this particular point, if BGs engineers hadnt damaged it. 
I have to consider whether BGs increased offer was enough and weighing the evidence up I 
dont think that it was. I should make it clear that I dont think BG should pay for the entire 
cost of the new boiler as at some point the boiler wouldve had to be replaced. But as BG 
accepts causing the damage, I think it is fair that it meets half the cost of the boiler and 
installation. 
From the evidence, I can see that Mrs S had to contact BG a few times in her attempts to 
resolve her complaint. She also states that she was left without adequate heating, although 
BG did supply her with fan heaters. I understand that some of her property was made damp 
due to the leak caused. So I am satisfied that she experienced a level of distress and 
inconvenience and I think BG should pay compensation of £150, to reflect this.
Putting things right
So overall, I think that BG dealt with Mrs S unfairly and I will be asking BG to pay a 50% 
contribution towards the cost of the boiler and installation. As well as pay £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset it caused Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons given above. 
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay a contribution of 50% towards the cost of the 
boiler and its installation - £1,959.75. 
It should pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman