DRN-3947224
The complaint
C complains about delays and poor service from Santander UK Plc when trying to recover a 
missing international transfer.
What happened
On 26 July 2022 Cs director, Mr W, sent an international payment for £15,000 to a 
consultant in another country. On 27 July 2022 Mr W sent another payment for the same 
amount. 
Mr W later got in contact with Santander to amend the beneficiary details on the transfers. 
Santander sent SWIFT messages and requested amendments to the payment instructions it 
sent. Santander says no response was received. 
On 8 August 2022 one of the payments was returned to Santander but the other was not. 
Mr W went on to contact Santander about the missing payment and asked it to try and find 
out what had happened. 
Santander says it sent various SWIFT messages but didnt receive responses. 
Mr W sent another payment for £15,000 on 23 August 2022 but it was returned a few days 
later because the details included in the instruction werent right.  
Mr W spoke with the beneficiary to try and trace the missing funds. The beneficiary 
contacted their bank and was told it had used an intermediary bank Ill refer to as N to send 
the funds back to Santander. And the receiving bank advised that both transfers had been 
returned via N and that attempts had been made to trace the funds. 
During September and October 2022 Mr W continued to contact Santander to try and trace 
the missing payment. Santander advised it had sent SWIFT messages but the missing 
payment hadnt been returned. When Mr W advised Santander the receiving bank had been 
messaging N, the complaint handler asked for it to make contact directly. 
The funds were ultimately returned without explanation at the beginning of November 2022. 
Santander issued a final response to Cs complaint and said that as it wasnt the bank that 
sent the funds back, its options for tracing the missing payment were limited. Santander 
didnt agree it had made mistakes or failed to take reasonable steps to locate the missing 
payment. 
An investigator at this service looked at Cs complaint. They thought Santander had tried to 
find out what had happened to Cs funds. But the investigator asked Santander to pay C £50 
as it incorrectly advised N, the intermediary bank, wasnt involved in the transfer. 
On Cs behalf, Mr W asked to appeal and said the compensation didnt take into account the 
fact the beneficiary had to attempt to trace the funds with their bank. Mr W also said that at 
no point did Santander offer to call either N or the receiving bank to try and trace the funds, 
despite being asked to. Mr W also asked why it had been possible to get one of the 
payments back in a reasonable time frame but not the other. As Mr W asked to appeal Cs 
complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W is so unhappy at what happened. Mr W accepts that incorrect 
details were included when the two payments of £15,000 were sent in July 2022. But hes 
pointed out one was returned without undue delay whilst the other was missing for around 
three months. Mr Ws explained he needed to pay a consultant on Cs behalf and that the 
issues caused a lot of inconvenience for all the parties involved. This is a complicated case 
with various banks and businesses having a role. I want to assure Mr W that Ive read and 
considered everything that both he and Santander have sent us. And I want to assure Mr W 
that I dont doubt how inconvenient and concerning the situation was. But my role in this 
decision is to look at Santanders actions and whether it treated him fairly. 
Mr W makes a reasonable point when he asks why one payment was returned, but not the 
other. But Santander wasnt the bank that sent the return transfers after incorrect beneficiary 
details were used. At that point, Santander had processed the transfers Mr W instructed, 
using the details provided. The receiving bank was ultimately unable to use the information 
contained in the transfer instructions to complete the transaction. So the transfers were both 
sent back by the receiving bank via its intermediary, N. 
Its not clear why N or the receiving bank didnt return both transfers at the same time. But 
given it was the receiving bank and its intermediary that sent the funds back, those 
businesses were best placed to try and trace the payment and explain what had happened. 
Im not persuaded there was any way for Santander to tell Mr W why his funds hadnt been 
returned as it wasnt the party responsible for sending them back. 
When making international transfers, businesses may use intermediary banks. And, in this 
case, N was used to transfer funds between Santander and the receiving bank and back 
again. Santanders confirmed the receiving bank appointed N to act as its intermediary. Ive 
looked at the SWIFT messages that Santander sent. Whilst I understand the complaint 
handler Mr W spoke with wasnt aware of Ns role, I can see that SWIFT messages were 
sent to N concerning the transfers. So it does appear to me that the SWIFT messages were 
being sent to the intermediary bank. 
Mr Ws explained he was told by a member of staff that Santander can use other methods to 
contact the banks involved in an international transfer. But Santanders confirmed its policy 
on this to us and says that, for security reasons, it uses the SWIFT messaging system when 
making enquiries about international transfers. Santanders confirmed it wont make contact 
outside of the SWIFT messaging system regarding transfers of this nature. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr W as I understand he was given different information, but Im satisfied 
Santander acted in line with its policy and has correctly explained why no other forms of 
contact were used. 
Its not clear why the funds werent returned by the other banks involved until November 
2022 as no SWIFT messages explaining the delay were ever received by Santander. But as 
the receiving bank and N were responsible for returning the transfers, I havent seen any 
evidence of a delay by Santander.  
In their correspondence with Mr W, a complaint handler at Santander advised N wasnt 
involved with the transfer. As noted above, N acted as an intermediary bank. I agree that caused some confusion and that the complaint handler shouldve been aware of Ns role. 
But the error doesnt appear to have delayed the return of the missing transfer. Im satisfied 
that a payment of £50 is a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused by the information 
provided by the complaint handler. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W as I can see how strongly he feels about Cs complaint. 
But, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied a payment of £50 to reflect the level of 
inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Cs complaint. As a result, Im 
going to uphold Cs complaint and proceed on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay C £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman