DRN-2890481
The complaint
Company F (F) complains that Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac 
(Allied World) unfairly discontinued its professional indemnity insurance product without 
paying proper regard to the consequences this had for the company.
What happened
F held surveyors professional indemnity (PI) insurance with Allied World. They were 
unhappy when the insurer decided to withdraw its PI product from the market during the 
Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown in April 2020, which F says was in breach of the FCA 
guidance published on 19 March 2020. 
Allied World said that its decision to cease writing the surveyors PI insurance was made in 
2019, which it said was a commercial decision due to the performance of that particular 
industry sector. It says that after its decision had been made, it notified its brokers via email, 
telephone and in fact-to-face meetings. However, F says it was not made aware that their 
policy would not be renewed until April 2020.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Allied Worlds decision to 
withdraw from the market was a commercial decision that it had taken before the pandemic 
began, which he thought had likely been communicated in 2019 to Fs broker (THB). The 
investigator didnt think Allied World had acted unfairly in its decision not to renew or extend 
Fs policy, and neither did he think this was in breach of any FCA principles. F disagreed, so 
the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
F has explained that Allied Worlds decision to withdraw its PI product from the market 
during the pandemic has left their company in a precarious position. Im sorry to hear of the 
difficulties F has been facing over the past year or so, and that they are having to close the 
company down. But based on what Ive seen, its clear that Allied World had made this 
decision in September 2019, which was several months before the Covid-19 pandemic and 
government lockdown began. 
F says they were not told about Allied Worlds decision to withdraw from the market until it 
wrote to their brokers in April 2020. However, the insurer says it communicated its decision 
to its brokers (including THB) during a series of meetings between September and 
December 2019, to ensure they left enough time for the brokers to source alternative 
coverage. I acknowledge there is no written evidence of this, but then this isnt surprising if 
the decision was initially communicated in face-to-face meetings. THB have also confirmed 
that it was likely they were verbally informed by Allied World prior to the written notice issued 
in April 2020. So, while I appreciate they may not have had any written communication prior 
to this, on balance I think the insurer did likely make its brokers aware of its decision to 
withdraw from the market in 2019.
I accept that F was not made aware of Allied Worlds decision until April 2020. But if their 
brokers didnt tell them or did not take action to source alternative cover ahead of this, this is 
something that F will need take up directly with the relevant broker(s) involved, as it is not 
something Allied World can be held responsible for, given the brokers were not acting on the 
insurers behalf.
F further submits that Allied Worlds decision not to renew their cover is in breach of the FCA 
guidance published at the beginning of the pandemic. 
The FCA guidance was first published on 19 March 2020 and set out the regulators 
expectations on firms during the Covid-19 pandemic. There is a section of this guidance that 
deals with product suspension which states:
We understand that firms may decide to, or want to, suspend some product 
offerings. While we appreciate that firms are trying to manage their exposure to risks, 
we want to make clear our expectations of how firms deliver this change. 
The guidance goes on to explain that firms must consider the needs of their customers, 
particularly where they are relying on a renewal for continuity of cover, because it may not 
be treating its customers fairly if a firm were not to renew. 
I understand that F considers this to mean that Allied World shouldnt have discontinued its 
product. But based on what Ive seen, this wasnt a decision to suspend the PI product as a 
result of it trying to manage its exposure to risk during the pandemic. It was a long-term 
commercial decision to withdraw from the market altogether that had been made several 
months before the pandemic began or was even known about. So, Im not persuaded that 
the FCAs guidance on product suspension as a result of market conditions during the 
pandemic applies or is relevant to this scenario. 
I appreciate that F was unhappy with Allied Worlds decision as it meant they were more 
exposed to risk as they were unable to source another policy. However, Allied Worlds 
decision to discontinue its product was a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgment 
which, as a business, it was entitled to make and is not something this service would 
interfere with.  
I also appreciate that F wanted to renew their policy and submits that Allied World should 
have at least extended it throughout the pandemic. But Im not persuaded there was any 
such obligation imposed on the insurer to do this, and I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable either to expect it to extend cover indefinitely for a product it had previously 
decided to withdraw. In any event, even if Allied World should have extended the policy, it 
doesnt appear that an extension would have made much difference In Fs circumstances, as 
I understand they were still unable to source a different policy over a year later in May 2021 
by the time the market had reopened after the first lockdown. I also note that F was able to 
join the RICS all risks pool that provides cover (albeit on a more limited basis) to businesses 
who are unable to source a policy on the open market. Allied World said it factored this into 
its decision to withdraw from the market, as it knew that none of its customers would be left 
with no cover entirely due to the RICS scheme.
So, Im not persuaded that Allied World has acted unfairly or unreasonably in these 
circumstances. I understand this will come as a disappointment to F, but I will not be 
directing the insurer to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman