DRN-2292550
The complaint
Miss G complains that HDI Global Speciality SE has declined a claim made under a pet 
insurance policy due to non-payment of premiums and its cancellation which she wasnt 
made aware of. She wasnt told of this at the time of arranging surgery for her dog and so 
has incurred costs which she otherwise wouldnt have done. 
This complaint has been set up against HDI as the business providing the insurance and 
therefore ultimately responsible for cancelling the policy and declining the claim. Miss G has 
been dealing with Only Pets Cover Limited trading as Scratch & Patch, the insurance brand. 
For ease I will refer to Only Pets Cover. 
What happened
Miss G has her dog, which Ill call O, insured through Only Pets Cover. The policy was 
taken out in August 2019 and the annual premium paid by way of monthly direct debit. 
In December 2019, Only Pets Cover emailed Miss G to let he know a premium had been 
missed. It explained she had until 28 December 2019 to pay the instalment or the policy 
would be cancelled. She was emailed on two further occasions (December 2019 and 
January 2020) and was given until 11 January 2020 to pay the instalment. As payment 
wasnt made the policy was cancelled on 22 January 2020. Miss G was sent a further email 
notifying her of this. 
On 31 March 2020, Miss G had taken O to the vet as he had been suffering with some 
breathing difficulties and he was going to be castrated. It was recommended O have surgery 
for Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS). Miss G says she called Only Pets 
Cover and was told the surgery would be covered under the policy and so she went ahead 
with it. However, the claim was later declined as the policy had been cancelled and so there 
was no cover. Miss G complained that she hadnt been notified of the non-payment of 
instalments or that the policy had been cancelled  and had she been told this during the call 
she wouldnt have gone ahead with the surgery, as it wasnt an emergency or urgently 
required. Only Pets Cover didnt think it had done anything wrong as it had sent emails 
notifying Miss G about the missed instalment and cancellation. 
Our investigator was satisfied Only Pets Cover had provided sufficient warning and 
notification of the missed instalment and the subsequent cancellation of the policy. But after 
receiving evidence from Miss G which showed she called Only Pets Cover on 31 March 
2020, she was satisfied it should have been able to tell her the policy had been cancelled. 
Because it didnt it had caused a loss of expectation of a claim being paid and it should pay 
Miss G £150 for the distress that caused. However, she didnt recommend the claim be paid 
as she was satisfied Miss G would have incurred those costs at some point  as it was 
unlikely any new insurance would have provided cover for what would have become a pre-
existing condition. 
Only Pets Cover agreed with the outcome and to pay Miss G £150. Miss G has asked for the 
matter to be reviewed. She disagrees Os condition would have been considered pre-
existing in the future, as she wouldnt have taken him to the vets had she known cover 
wasnt provided. She also says the surgery was only a suggestion as O was being placed 
under anaesthetic anyway for his castration.  Miss G remains unhappy that she wasnt 
notified by other means about the missed instalment (as Only Pets Cover admitted it knew 
email sometimes went to customers junk folders) and she was misinformed about the 
cancellation of the policy, and this will go against her as it will need to be declared. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two key issues for me to consider, whether Miss G was given sufficient notification 
of the missed instalment and subsequent cancellation of the policy; and if I find she was, 
what action Only Pets Cover needs to take as a result of not realising this when she called it 
on 31 March 2020 about covering Os surgery. I will deal with each in turn. 
Only Pets Cover has provided three emails, sent in December 2019 and January 2020, 
which all notified Miss G of the missed instalment and warned her of the consequences of 
not making payment  the cancellation of the policy. It has also provided another email sent 
on 22 January 2020 notifying her the policy had been cancelled when payment wasnt made. 
Miss G has argued that as Only Pets Cover knows emails go into junk folders, it should have 
tried to contact her by other means. She has also referred to the policy document which says 
she would be written to by recorded delivery to give her 30 days notice of the policy being 
cancelled. 
I understand the point Miss G makes about junk folders. But I dont agree that means Only 
Pets Cover needed to do anything further. It corresponded with Miss G using the email 
address she provided and that was recorded on the policy documentation. It is the email 
account holders responsibility to check their junk folder and/or ensure incoming emails go to 
the right inbox  and it couldnt have been known to Only Pets Cover where its emails were 
going, even if it is generally known that can sometimes happen.
Miss G is right that the policy document does set out the insurer may cancel the policy by 
sending 30 days notice by recorded post.  However, Im not sure that part of the document 
relates to the situation Miss G was in. The policy also says:
If you pay the premium in instalments and an instalment remains unpaid 15 days 
after the due date, we may cancel this policy. In this event, the period of insurance 
will equate to the period for which premium instalments have been paid by you. 
Before we cancel your policy we will write to you in order to give you the 
opportunity to pay any premium due to us.  
Miss G had missed an instalment and it remained unpaid for over 15 days. By sending the 
emails it did it wrote to her as set out above. There was no requirement here for that to be 
sent by recorded post. But even if Im wrong about that, Im satisfied that sending an email to 
a known and correct email address meets the intent of recorded post  to ensure the 
correspondence is received.  
Overall, Im satisfied that by sending the emails, to the correct email address, Only Pets 
Cover provided sufficient and adequate notice of both the missed instalment and the 
cancellation. I therefore dont find the insurer was wrong to cancel the policy when it did.  
I turn now to the call on 31 March 2020. Although Only Pets Cover couldnt initially locate 
any record of a call, it is no longer in dispute that Miss G did call it. We dont have a full recording of the call, it cuts off when Miss G is transferred to the claims team. Like the 
investigator, I find it highly likely that she would have provided her policy number at some 
point during that call. And I accept her submission that she was told cover would be 
provided. 
That was wrong, as no policy was in place. Our approach to situations where someone has 
been given the wrong information is to put them in the position they would have been in had 
they been given the correct information; not the position they would have been in had the 
wrong information been right. Here that means putting Miss G in the position she would have 
been in had she been told her policy was no longer in place. 
Miss G says she wouldnt have proceeded with the surgery as it wasnt an emergency or 
urgent. However, the information provided during this case shows that Os breathing got 
worse during exercise and the vet confirmed the condition as BOAS. So although I accept 
Miss G might not have gone ahead with surgery on that day, I think it fair to say that it would 
have gone ahead at some point. And like the investigator, I think this is likely something  
Miss G would always have needed to pay for. I say this because the moment O was 
diagnosed as having BOAS the condition existed from that point, regardless of whether or 
not surgery had gone ahead. Therefore for any new policies taken out, the condition would 
have been pre-existing and highly unlikely to have been covered. Im therefore not 
persuaded if Miss G had been given the correct information her position would be any 
different; even had she waited until she had new insurance in place, its highly unlikely to 
have been covered and so she would have needed to pay for any treatment. Because of 
that, I dont require the cost of surgery to be covered. 
That said, I do accept Miss G has been put to some trouble over this. Had she been 
provided with accurate information during the call, she wouldnt have taken the time and 
trouble to submit a claim. And she has had the disappointment of not having a claim met, 
that she thought would be.  Overall, Im satisfied £150 is a fair reflection of the impact not 
being provided with correct information during the call had. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require HDI Global Specialty SE to pay 
Miss G £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman