DRN-3285535
The complaint
Miss R has complained about a mortgage broker she used for two mortgage applications in 
2020. She says the broker - Richard Turner trading as UK Commercial Finance  misled her 
about the various fees she was being charged.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in December 2021, the findings of which said:
Having read through all the correspondence provided by Miss R, Im bemused at the tone 
and content of Richard Turners emails. From early on he refers to Miss Rs situation as 
complex, but it wasnt complex at all. It was a simple porting application to move her 
existing mortgage to a new property, and a simultaneous LTB application to repay the 
mortgage on the old property. This is a fairly common situation, and not complex in the 
least. Reading the emails as an impartial third party, I can see why Miss R felt pushed into 
things. For example, an email on 4 February 2020 said:
This case is complicated and I would have preferred for you just to let me get on with it.
I suspect that you will be making it even harder for me to work for you.
I have arranged your progression with the two lenders who are expecting you to pay and 
proceed now (albeit for a potential purchase if this one has now fallen through)  the 
reason for this was because you emailed me and said ' let's do it'. The Lender isn't going 
to do any more for me if we keep messing them about.
The figures do work for you but your full Application needs to be submitted and checked 
before exactly what is available can be confirmed. If this was a straightforward mortgage 
it would be easy . which is why you sort out a specialist Broker .. only you won't let 
me do my job without 'overseeing' everything.
In my opinion you qualify for very low rates and I have been able to get rid of your current 
mortgages penalty (£4000.00 +) and also your Lender Product Fees (£995.00 per 
property mortgage = £1990.00). How good is that!!!
It is now not possible for me to continue 'chasing my Tail'. You either want to proceed by 
making your Applications or you don't.
If you don't , then that's fine and I wish you all the best.
If you do, that's great, and I assure you of my best attention at all times.
Putting aside the pressure being put on Miss R to not question anything, there are some 
inaccuracies in that email:
The lenders werent expecting you to pay as the fees Richard Turner was putting 
pressure on Miss R to pay at that time were the application fees, which he has 
confirmed were for his work and werent charged by  or passed onto  the lenders.
Richard Turner hadnt been able to get rid of your current mortgages penalty 
(£4000.00 +) as that would never have been charged on a porting application, 
irrespective of whether Miss R used Richard Turner, a different broker or did the 
application directly herself with the lender.
Richard Turner hadnt got rid of your Lender Product Fees (£995.00 per property 
mortgage = £1990.00) as those fees would be dependent on the product selected. 
Either a fee would be due for a particular product or not, irrespective of whether 
Miss R used Richard Turner, a different broker or did the application directly herself 
with the lender.
Richard Turner sent an email to Miss R on 1 February 2020, that said:
Costs.
Application Fee £595.00 per mortgage (payable once I have got you initially approved... 
so we have a YES before we pay any money.
Broker Fee is £599.00 per mortgage (payable on Offer .. so I get my money when you get 
yours).
A Lender product fee usually £995.00 and added to the mortgage (although your can pay 
separately if you wish).
No hidden Fees
And,
Please note that the Lender will be expecting to proceed immediately given that you are 
approved which means paying over the Application Fees.
Miss R queried that the same day:
I've never paid an application fee as well as a product fee. That seems quite a lot of fees 
to pay (I accept I would need to pay you something for your time of course and that's the 
broker fees), are the application fees on all products?
Richard Turner provided the explanation:
The Application Fee covers the administration plus survey etc.
The Product Fee can be scrapped if you don't mind paying more per month on a higher 
interest rate.
To which Miss R replied:
Why am I paying for Application Fees for the mortgage I currently have that will just be 
increased and transferred to the new property? Why are the fees payable to you? Do I 
not need to pay these to [lenders]?
That led to Richard Turner sending the email I documented above whereby he claimed to 
have got rid of Miss Rs ERC and product fees.He sent a further email the same day:
Your Application Fee is payable to me because I will distribute for various administration 
and Surveys required on your current home and the now protentional [sic] purchase of 
your new home.
And,
You pay the Application Fee...... they do the checks
Miss R then paid the two lots of £595 that day.
Matters progressed and then on 26 March Richard Turner emailed Miss R:
Everyone has worked extremely hard upon your instruction to put in place your 
mortgages and our fee of £399.00 was due on Offer (achieved two weeks ago)  you 
have said that you will pay our fee this Friday (27th March 2020). See below for a repeat 
of the paying in details for your convenience.
Miss R paid the fees and asked:
Please could you kindly confirm receipt and provide me with a paid invoice detailing the 
various fees I have paid to [current mortgage lender] and [potential new mortgage lender 
for the LTB application] in application fees and then separately your broker fees.
Richard Turner provided an invoice to Miss R the following day. That listed the two 
properties separately, and for each it said:
Application / Processing Fee £595.00 PAID
Broker Completion Fee (payable on Offer) £399.00 PAID.
Having considered all the emails I think it is clear that Miss R believed the £595 fees were 
payable to the lender, and I believe Richard Turners emails were purposefully vague so 
whilst he didnt say that, he strongly implied that. Ill explain.
The chain starts with:
Application Fee £595.00 per mortgage (payable once I have got you initially approved. 
..so we have a YES before we pay any money.
Broker Fee is £599.00 per mortgage (payable on Offer .. so I get my money when you get 
yours).
The key phrases here are before we pay any money (my emphasis) and so I get my 
money when you get yours.
As the application fee was payable by Miss R to Richard Turner the word we makes no 
sense. By using we the implication is that between them  that is between Miss R and 
Richard Turner  theyd be paying money to a third party, in this example it is fair to 
assume that would be the mortgage lenders. So Miss R would give Richard Turner the 
fees, for him to pass onto the lenders  hence we pay. If Richard Turner wanted it to be 
clear that those fees were paid to him, for him to keep for himself, then the wording would 
have been before you pay any moneyIn addition, the use of the phrase so I get my money when you get yours is incredibly 
misleading, for two reasons. The lesser reason being that Miss R wouldnt be getting her 
money when the offer was issued, shed only receive that (or her solicitor would to 
complete the transactions at least) at completion. But the main reason, and the one that is 
relevant here, is that Richard Turner would already at that point have got £1,190 from Miss 
R (the two £595 fees), so that phrase is completely misleading.
It is clear from Miss Rs response that she has understood from Richard Turners email that 
the application fees are due to the lender, even going so far as saying I accept I would 
need to pay you something for your time of course and that's the broker fees. That was a 
clear point where Richard Turner could have corrected Miss R and explained the 
application fees were also due to him to pay him for his time, not just the broker fees.
Instead he chose to muddy the waters further by saying The Application Fee covers the 
administration plus survey etc. Other than muddying the waters, this statement isnt true 
as the application fee didnt cover the survey at all. The survey fee would have been 
payable by Miss R directly to the lender, unless she was taking products that came with a 
free valuation, in which case there wouldnt be a valuation fee. 
Miss R queried why the application fees were payable to Richard Turner, which again gave 
him the opportunity to explain these were fees that he was keeping in their entirety for his 
work on her applications. But again he chose not to make that disclosure, saying Your 
Application Fee is payable to me because I will distribute for various administration and 
Surveys and You pay the Application Fee...... they do the checks 
As the fees were being kept by Richard Turner it isnt clear why he said hed distribute 
them. Even when asking for the invoice Miss R made it clear that she believed the 
application fees had been paid to the lenders, and the broker fees were for Richard Turner, 
and the invoice did nothing to correct that.
Whilst I acknowledge Miss R signed an agreement about the fees, Richard Turner has 
neglected to answer my question about where that fits in the timeline (and the document is 
undated, only saying February 2020). I can only assume Miss R signed this after she paid 
the initial £1,190 as it states The Client has paid in the past tense. It also still doesnt 
correct the misapprehension on Miss Rs part that those fees were payable to the lender, it 
simply states £1190 has been paid (but not to who).
So whilst I acknowledge Richard Turners strength of feeling about the fact Miss R signed 
this document, I dont consider it adds any weight to the case. I say this because it is clear 
from Miss Rs emails that shes not happy about paying the £595 fees (hence all the 
questions about it) but does so because she was led to believe by Richard Turner that 
these were fees charged by the lenders, for such things as the property valuations and 
administration tasks.
Im satisfied that if Richard Turner had answered Miss Rs questions correctly, and 
disclosed the two £595 fees were for his time, rather than implying they were being 
charged by the lenders and/or spent on costs such as surveys, then Miss R would have 
chosen not to proceed with Richard Turner. It is reasonable to conclude that Miss R only 
went ahead as she was under the belief those £595 fees would always have been charged, 
even if she used a different broker or arranged the mortgages herself, and so she only 
entered into the agreement to proceed due to being misled about that by Richard Turner.
As I said earlier, I was trying to decide whether the correct redress would be to just order 
Richard Turner to refund the two £595 fees, or whether I should also include the two £399 fees. Our investigator felt all four fees should be refunded in full, and so that was the 
position the case came to me in.
I was in two minds about whether the £399 fees should also be refunded, which is why I 
asked for further information from both sides. Richard Turner hasnt provided the 
information I asked for nine months ago, despite reminders to do so, and so Ive had to 
review the case again without the benefit of that information.
Having done so Im persuaded that if Miss R had known the true picture  in that the £595 
fees were being charged by Richard Turner directly, and werent being passed on to the 
lenders to cover any their costs  then I dont think she would have proceeded with Richard 
Turner at all. There were brokers available on the same website that she used to contact 
Richard Turner that wouldnt have charged any fees to Miss R, and I think it more likely 
than not (which is the test I must use) that Miss R would instead have decided to proceed 
with one of those. To that end she wouldnt have incurred either the two £595 fees, nor the 
two £399 fees, and so I order all four fees to be refunded to her.
From there Ive considered whether any award for compensation is due on top of that. Im 
aware our investigator felt £250 was fair. Richard Turner has said that it is unfair that not 
only would he be working for free, but he would also have to pay Miss R if we award this, 
bearing in mind he arranged for her the mortgages that she wanted. Whilst I understand 
the points hes made about this I dont agree thats a reason to warrant no compensation 
being due.
I think it is clear from the emails that Richard Turner misled Miss R about the fees. He had 
ample opportunity to make the true position clear, but instead he put pressure on Miss R to 
pay up implying that she was wasting his time and shouldnt be asking questions. His 
emails were unprofessional at times, and I can understand why Miss R felt they were 
aggressive. Richard Turner has taken a similar stance with this service, choosing not to 
provide the information that I asked our investigator to obtain from him thus delaying 
matters.
All things considered Im satisfied an award of £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss R is fair.
Miss R accepted my provisional decision. A representative acting on behalf of Richard 
Turner didnt agree and sent some further emails to our investigator. To be clear, any 
mention of Richard Turner should be taken to mean, where appropriate, the representative 
for the business that has been in contact with our investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to change the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision.
When reaching my provisional conclusions I reviewed the terms of business but I dont agree 
that the fact those are on file means this should be the end of the complaint. Neither does 
Miss Rs job role mean a complaint cant be upheld in her favour.
I understand Richard Turner thinks the emails Ive quoted are cherry picked out of sync and 
wouldnt convince a court of law, but this isnt a court of law. Were an independent dispute 
resolution service that gives both sides a chance to provide all the evidence they want to provide, and then we reach an impartial decision based on what we think is fair and 
reasonable.
For all the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I think Richard Turner misled 
Miss R into believing the fees were being passed to the mortgage lenders by making 
inaccurate statements in emails, and had various opportunities to correct that and make it 
clear to Miss R that wasnt the case. Irrespective of what the terms of business documents 
say, it is clear from the emails that Miss R was led to believe those fees were for the lenders; 
I wont repeat all the inaccuracies and misleading information here as Im satisfied it is all 
laid out in my provisional decision.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that if Miss R had known that the £595 fees were 
being kept by Richard Turner rather than being passed to the lenders then she wouldnt 
have proceeded with Richard Turner. And if she hadnt proceeded with Richard Turner she 
also wouldnt have incurred the £399 fees she paid him.
I also see no reason to depart from the award of £250 compensation that I was provisionally 
minded to make.
My final decision
I order Richard Turner trading as UK Commercial Finance to pay Miss R:
£1,190 plus simple annual interest of 8%* from 4 February 2020 to the date of 
settlement;
£399 plus simple annual interest of 8%* from 28 February 2020 to the date of 
settlement;
£399 plus simple annual interest of 8%* from 27 March 2020 to the date of 
settlement;
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* If Richard Turner trading as UK Commercial Finance considers it should deduct income tax 
from the 8% interest element of my award it may do so but it should give Miss R the 
necessary paperwork, if she asks for it, so she can reclaim any tax from HMRC if shes 
entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman