DRN-3370984
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund £203.03 he says he 
lost as part of a scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In this instance, Mr H initially paid the funds to a legitimate crypto platform  CEX.IO. 
It was then from this platform that Mr H paid his money to the broker, Godfinex, that 
he says was operating fraudulently, as he was subsequently unable to make any 
withdrawals. Mr H wanted to raise a chargeback claim with Barclays after he realised 
he had been scammed but says that they told him to raise a fraud claim instead, 
which prevented him from being able to properly pursue a chargeback claim later on. 
I appreciate Mr H considers that Barclays ought to have advised him to raise a 
chargeback claim from the outset. But in any event, a chargeback in this instance 
would not have been successful, as the transaction Mr H used his debit card for was 
to pay CEX.IO for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which he duly received. The loss 
he has complained about occurred from the crypto platform when he paid the 
cryptocurrency to the broker. So, he could not claim that he did not receive the goods 
or services paid for from his Barclays account, which was the purchase of the 
cryptocurrency. Therefore, while I appreciate he may have been wrongly advised by 
Barclays, it would have made little difference to the outcome of said claim. Barclays 
also offered £100 compensation for the poor service Mr H received, which I consider 
to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr H from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
However, the payment Mr H made was for a relatively small amount, such that it 
would not have appeared unusual in comparison with his spending history. So, there 
was no reason for it to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might 
have been at risk of falling for a scam. So, I dont think Barclays can fairly be held 
liable for Mr Hs loss here, as Im not persuaded there was any obligation on them to 
intervene or prevent the payment in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman