DRN-4233270
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc allowed his account to enter an unauthorised 
overdraft.
What happened
Mr D says Santander allowed his account to enter an unauthorised overdraft in October 
2022. He says he wasnt allowed an overdraft facility and so Santander shouldnt have 
authorised payments which placed his account in an overdrawn position. Mr D says as a 
result of what took place, he wasnt able to buy a lottery ticket using his usual numbers 
which would have resulted in a win of over £100,000. He would like Santander to pay him 
that amount.
Santander says Mr Ds account entered an unauthorised overdraft due to his purchases and 
says that can take place in line with account terms and conditions. It explained the 
circumstances when it may authorise payments and that there can be a time lag for 
payments to be claimed by retailers. Santander has apologised for any confusion caused 
and paid £25 compensation. It says it doesnt have a record of failed attempts to buy a 
lottery ticket on 18 October 2022.
Mr D brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santanders account terms and conditions explained that an account may enter an 
unauthorised overdraft and it wasnt its fault if Mr D didnt have enough money to buy the 
lottery ticket. The investigator didnt think Santander should refund the payments as Mr D 
made them.
Mr D says he could have bought a lottery ticket on 21 October 2022 and maintains he wasnt 
allowed an overdraft so Santander shouldnt have allowed his account to enter one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ds account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Santander may authorise a payment even if that means an account would enter what is 
called an unauthorised overdraft.
Im satisfied that is what took place here that Mr Ds spending took the account into a 
relatively small unauthorised overdraft. I dont think Santander made a mistake by doing so 
and acted fairly, which is by allowing Mr Ds payments to go through. I can also see that 
Santander has explained that some payments may be delayed by a retailer.
I appreciate Mr D says he could have bought a lottery ticket were it not for Santanders 
actions. But I cant see that was the case and think it was Mr Ds responsibility to manage 
his account and to ensure he had enough money in it to buy the ticket. I cant see how 
Santanders actions impacted on that and it follows that I cant fairly order it to pay 
compensation equivalent to what Mr D says would have been his winnings.
Im satisfied that Santander has fairly apologised for any confusion caused and paid £25 
compensation. I think that award is fair and reasonable and appreciate that is not the main 
part of this complaint. I cant fairly order Santander refund any payments as Mr D would like 
as he clearly had the benefit of them. The alternative here would have been for Santander to 
have refused the payment attempts which may have caused Mr D inconvenience.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with agreed terms and conditions and hasnt 
made a mistake. I can see Mr D says he is considering alternative action to recover the 
£100,000 but this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman