DRN-1651116
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that TSB Bank plc gave her incorrect information when she changed her 
direct debit payment date - which then caused her to miss a payment, be charged fees, and 
receive arrears collections correspondence.
What happened
Miss H contacted TSB to change the date of a monthly direct debit payment. When she did 
so, TSB advised her that the change meant that no direct debit payment would be applied 
for that month. However, TSB did attempt to take a payment that month, and because Miss 
H hadnt accounted for it - because shed been told by TSB that she didnt need too - the 
direct debit attempt failed.
Miss H was then sent letter by TSB advising her that the account was in arrears and that she 
was being charged a fee because of this. The letters also explained that TSB would record 
an instance of a missed payment on her credit file.
Miss H wasnt happy with this, so she made a complaint. TSB looked at Miss Hs complaint. 
They agreed that there had been an error and that Miss H shouldnt have been told that no 
payment was due in the month that she changed the direct debit date. So, TSB refunded the 
fees that had been charged. TSB also credited Miss Hs account with £9 to cover the cost of 
the telephone calls she had had to make and a further £50 by way of an apology for the 
inconvenience caused. TSB also explained that they would make sure Miss Hs credit file 
wasnt adversely affected and that no missed payment would be reported.
Miss H didnt feel that the offer of compensation from TSB went far enough and she was 
also dissatisfied that she had continued to receive telephone calls from TSB while her 
complaint was being investigated by them. So, she referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they thought that TSB had correctly 
acknowledged their error and taken appropriate steps to put things right, including fairly 
compensating Miss H for her inconvenience, and so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Miss H remained unhappy and so her complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss H feels strongly about the standard of service she received from TSB 
surrounding this issue, and in particular that the amount of compensation that TSB have 
offered isnt commensurate with the amount of distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
I sympathise with Miss H, but its important to note that the remit of this service isnt to 
punish or fine companies for their actions of inactions, but rather to ensure that a consumer 
isnt treated unfairly or unreasonably by a company with whom they are in dispute.
In this instance, TSB have acknowledged that they didnt provide the standard of service that 
they would have expected, and theyve apologised to Miss H because of this. TSB also 
made sure that Miss H wasnt adversely affected by what had happened, including ensuring 
that no missed payment was reported to her credit file. They have also reimbursed the fees 
that shouldnt have been charged as well as an additional amount to cover the costs of the 
phone calls that Miss H had to make. Finally, TSB credited Miss H with a payment by way of 
an apology for her inconvenience.
TSBs response here is in line with what this service would expect, given these 
circumstances. Compensation is always a subjective issue, but while Miss H feels that 
amount of compensation provided by TSB falls short of what is appropriate, I must note that 
it is commensurate with what I would expect to see offered here, given what has happened, 
and so I cant fairly say that TSBs offer is unreasonable in this instance.
Miss H has also stated that she wasnt happy with the telephone calls that TSB were making 
to her while her complaint investigation was ongoing. I have asked TSB about this 
specifically, and the list of attempted calls that they provided confirms that multiple calls were 
made on several days. However, TSB have demonstrated that a number of these attempted 
calls were in relation to the ongoing complaint, and that repeat calls were only made when 
the initial calls were unanswered. 
Finally, Miss H expressed in her complaint that she felt that the standard of service she had 
received from TSB when she had called them had been poor and that she had been made to 
feel as though she was in the wrong. Again, this a very subjective issue, but I have listened 
to several call recordings where Miss H contacted TSB, and while there is a degree of 
confusion about what has happened and how best to resolve the issue moving forwards, I 
cant conclude that TSBs call handlers were rude or acted unprofessionally.
So, Im satisfied that TSB havent acted unreasonably here, and although I can understand 
how these attempted calls might have been unwelcome from Miss Hs perspective, many of 
the attempts appear to have been warranted, and not related to the issue of account arrears.
It follows that I dont think that TSB have acted inappropriately here, and so I wont be 
upholding this complaint. I understand this wont be the outcome that Miss H had hoped for, 
but I feel that TSBs actions and offer of compensation in response to Miss Hs initial 
complaint to them was fair and reasonable, and so I wont be asking TSB to take any further 
action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman