DRN-3081950
The complaint
Mr R complains on his and his daughters behalf that when British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BG) serviced Ms Rs boiler its engineer left it an unsafe state. He also complains about the 
delays in fixing the issue and that BGs engineers werent qualified to carry out work.
What happened
Mr and Ms R held a BG Homecare Emergency Insurance policy. In November 2019 the 
unvented hot water cylinder at Ms Rs home leaked and they called BG. BG sent an 
engineer who decided the cylinder needed to be replaced. The arrangements for the work 
took a long time to resolve due to issues with the installation, and Mr R complained to BG.
Mr R said a warning notice was attached to the cylinder stating only qualified engineers are 
to work on this type of installation. Mr R said that as a result of BG sending unqualified staff 
his daughter and family could have suffered serious health consequences. He said they had 
to leave their home over the Christmas period, and he attended to ensure the system was 
fixed, but it was left with parts missing and wires exposed. Mr R also said that BG caused 
damage to the ceiling when its engineer disconnected a fire alarm.
BG responded to the complaint by saying that the cylinder was installed by suitably qualified 
engineers and it thought all issues had since been resolved. BG didnt agree its engineers 
would have damaged the ceiling as they had no reason to disconnect the fire alarm. BG 
apologised for poor service and offered Mr and Ms R £750 compensation, but didnt pay this. 
Mr R said he had to arrange the replacement of the cylinder with a legal installation, in 
order to sell the property, but ran out of time. Mr R wanted the compensation but wasnt 
happy that the hot water cylinder hadnt been fixed by BG, and he had incurred costs from 
an experienced engineer of £2,352. Mr R referred his complaint to our service and said they 
wanted their expenses covered by BG and a refund of their premium for the policy.   
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said BG had given poor service 
and caused Ms R to move away over Christmas. He thought BGs offer of compensation 
was fair for this. He said BG should send an independent engineer to inspect the cylinder to 
ensure its safe and look at the damage to the ceiling. The investigator said it was fair for BG 
not to refund the policy premiums as Mr and Ms R had the benefit of the policy.
Mr R said BG had made false statements about its engineers qualifications and the status of 
the repairs and an example should be made of the organisation. Mr R paid an independent 
engineer £2,352 to report and carry out certified repairs to the boiler at Ms Rs home. He 
said his daughters property was unsaleable due to the unsafe installation of the cylinder and 
she was seriously anxious about the safety of the installation. He said BG should refund the 
policy premiums for its poor service and negligence.
Our investigator said BG should pay for Mr Rs engineers report and the work carried out 
and pay further compensation of £250, totalling £1,000. The investigator said BG shouldnt 
have to pay compensation for the problems and expense Ms R faced in selling her home or 
refund the policy premiums as it wasnt possible to prove that the cylinder caused the failure 
of the transaction and he couldnt ask BG to pay for something that hadnt happened. 
BG agreed with the investigator, but Mr R did not. He said the investigators information was 
inaccurate and incomplete and didnt show BG had fabricated responses to avoid 
responsibility for its illegal and dangerous acts as demonstrated by his engineers report. Mr 
R said his daughters home was unsaleable while the stamp duty relief was in effect due to 
the illegal installation and she would now have to pay £13,000 stamp duty to buy a new 
property. Mr R said BG should compensate his daughter for this, the legal fees incurred for 
an abortive sale of her home and other costs as a direct result of BGs illegal installation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered photos, emails and calls between the parties, reports and work sheets.
Mr R previously complained about the boiler. I think the boiler has been working satisfactorily 
for some time now, but Mr R hasnt confirmed this. The area of work which Mr R has 
described as being dangerous in the present complaint concerns the cylinder which stores 
hot water. Mr and Ms Rs policy with BG covers their boiler and controls on a service and 
repair basis.
Mr R has made a series of detailed submissions about his experiences with BG concerning 
the work to his daughters hot water cylinder and the impact this has had upon them both. I 
hope he doesnt view it a discourtesy that Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the 
main points at issue. Some of Mr Rs concerns understandably involve what might have 
happened had the installation of the cylinder caused his family harm. I can see that they 
found these risks to be traumatic, but our service can only consider what has happened, not 
what might have happened. 
I should also make clear that our service isnt the financial regulator, that is the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). And so, we cant tell a business how it should operate in order to 
be in compliance with the regulations or penalise it so as to make an example of it or deter it 
from future actions. Our role is to determine whether a business has treated a consumer 
fairly in all the circumstances of a complaint brought to us and where it hasnt, to determine 
the redress appropriate to the complaint and the consumers circumstances. 
Mr R has recently asked if we could add to his complaint that BG has given false information 
to the public via its advertisements. This is a matter for the Advertising Standards Authority, 
and I understand that Mr R has been in contact with them. 
Ive looked carefully at BGs records of the repairs to Ms Rs boiler and its communications 
with Mr R. BG acknowledged that, the work took longer to complete than planned, this was 
primarily due to lack of experience for the engineer carrying out the replacement of the 
cylinder. They should also have drained the tank down during the first visit. BG also 
acknowledged it had caused a breakdown of communications and a poor experience. 
I think this is an important acknowledgement of poor service and that this lack of experience 
was manifested when BGs engineer failed to drain the hot water cylinder when called in 
response to the cylinder leaking. Mr R wasnt told about this and it appears to have led to the 
cylinder leaking again and concerns about much greater potential damage. I can see that the 
cylinder had then to be drained and then needed to be re-plumbed and wired in. Mr R said the work that BGs engineers carried out showed that they didnt hold the legally 
required qualifications to install an unvented hot water cylinder. A notice fixed to the cylinder 
states that, Installation and servicing must be carried out by a competent installer or 
engineer. BG said its engineers have the training and qualifications to complete the work to 
the required standard. BGs statement on this point is somewhat undermined by its previous 
acknowledgement about lack of experience, but not rendered false as Mr R suggests. I 
understand that BGs engineers are competent to complete the tasks involved in Ms Rs 
repair and can self-certify their work on water cylinders. 
I can see from Mr Rs communications that he has strongly held views about the way that 
BG has dealt with the repairs at his daughters home. He has said that the boiler system has 
been illegally installed by BG and that BG then acted fraudulently in making false statements 
and has acted with deception. I can see from Mr Rs engineers report that the engineer was 
surprised that a BG installation was so poor and that the original (non-BG installation) was 
not completed according to regulations.  
The engineer considered the installation of the replacement cylinder by BG to be dangerous 
and not carried out by competent person. He set out the failings of the new system and said 
that BG had failed to resolve this within a reasonable amount of time. From the evidence Ive 
seen, BG failed to ensure that the work at Ms Rs home was carried out to a satisfactory 
standard. I think the state in which the boiler was left was potentially dangerous and its 
understandable that Mr R was very concerned about his familys safety. Mr Rs engineer 
replaced the cylinder and I think its fair for BG to reimburse Mr R the cost of this work and 
the report. Mr R has provided receipts which show this amounted to £2,352.
Without doubt BG could and should have communicated more accurately and effectively 
with Mr R so that he knew what the situation with the boiler was, and had his concerns 
properly addressed. BG needed to respond more quickly to Mr Rs concerns and should 
have arranged oversight of the repairs to ensure safe standards were achieved. From what 
Ive seen BG failed in these respects and assumed it had successfully replaced the cylinder, 
when in reality its work was sub-standard and potentially dangerous. I think this amounted to 
very poor service by BG. But I havent found evidence that BG engaged in fraudulent 
conduct, as Mr R states. And I dont agree with Mr R that BGs communications have shown 
that it employs engineers to carry out installations who are not legally qualified to do so.
I have thought about the appropriate compensation in Mr and Ms Rs circumstances. 
Needless to say, it was very unfortunate that the period of poor service from BG took place 
against a backdrop of Ms R attempting to move house as it certainly didnt help with this. 
However, there are many reasons why the sale of a property may or may not proceed and it 
isnt possible to say with certainty in this case that Ms Rs sale didnt take place due to the 
problems with her boiler. And so, I dont think its fair to require BG to pay the stamp duty 
and fees that Ms R has incurred or may incur for this. 
BG has now paid compensation of £750 for its poor service, including failed appointments 
and poor communications and the disruption this caused to Mr and Ms R. Mr and Ms R have 
said that the compensation fall far short of an amount that would reflect the dangers BG 
caused to them. I can understand Mr and Ms Rs concerns about the potentially dangerous 
situation the boiler was left in, but we dont award compensation for what might have 
happened only the effects of what has taken place. Their policy with BG limits BGs liability 
to damage it has actually caused. 
I have concluded that overall the sum of £1,000 recommended by the investigator is a fair 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mr and Ms R have had to endure during this 
unfortunate, drawn-out process. This would include compensation for the visits by BG staff 
to Ms Rs home and the inconvenience she and Mr R suffered through these visits and being without hot water and heating for a prolonged period. This means that BG must now pay Mr 
and Ms R further compensation of £250 if they accept this decision.
In his first assessment our investigator recommended Mr R obtain a professional report 
about the potential damage to Ms Rs ceiling concerning her alarm. BG has consistently 
denied causing this damage and Mr R is very adamant that they did. Mr R has recently said 
he has paid for the repair but doesnt have all the receipts. I sympathise with Mr and Ms R 
for this problem, but I havent seen evidence to show that BG caused the damage described. 
However, if this remains of concern then Mr R could obtain an expert report about the 
damage and send this to BG along with any receipts that he holds. And BG should take 
action in accordance with any findings of a report. If Mr and Ms R remain dissatisfied by the 
outcome of this issue, they may bring a further complaint to BG.
I dont think its fair to require BG to refund Mr and Ms Rs policy premiums as they have had 
the benefit of the policy, albeit in frustrating circumstances, and could have made a claim at 
any time. I understand that Mr and Ms R are likely to be disappointed by this outcome to 
their complaint. If Mr R rejects this final decision other options in pursuing this complaint 
remain open including legal action should he wish. He may also wish to consider bringing his 
concerns about the legality of BGs actions to the financial regulator, the FCA.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Ms R a total of £1,000 compensation 
(less any amount that it has paid already) for the impact upon them of the very poor service 
they have received.
I also require British Gas Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr R £2,352 for his engineers 
report and this includes the work his engineer carried out to Ms Rs boiler system. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to add interest at 8% simple to the sum of £2,352 from the 
date the amount was paid until British Gas Insurance Limited makes payment to Mr R. 
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022. 
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman