DRN-3579142
The complaint
Mr U complains through his representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) lent money 
to him irresponsibly on a high cost loan, such that he couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Avant provided Mr U with a loan for £6,000 on 5 June 2018. The loan was repayable over 36 
months at a rate of about £266 a month. Mr U complained that he had difficulty making the 
repayments but eventually paid off the loan in full within 5 months.
Avant said it carried out all the necessary verification checks, including carrying out a credit 
check, and obtaining a recent bank statement and payslip. It assessed that the loan was 
affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our adjudicator said that Mr U was heavily 
reliant on borrowings and was unlikely to be able to sustainably afford the loan.
Avant disagreed, pointing out that the loan was partly for consolidation of existing loans and 
it was reasonable of it to expect Mr U to pay off certain borrowings. It also pointed out that 
the mortgage was a joint one so it could discount half of that in assessing his disposable 
income. It maintained that Mr U could afford the loan, also pointing out that he had no 
problems paying the loan instalments and managed to pay off the loan within five months.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Avant complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr U would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr U would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Us ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr U undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr U. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There is a big difference between the investigators and Avants calculations of Mr Us credit 
commitments and his outgoings. This decision is based on Avants calculations.
To take Avants point about debt consolidation, it says it doesnt know what debts Mr U was 
going to pay off but has made assumptions. I would have thought that that would have been 
looked at more closely if debts were to be paid off. Indeed Avant could have paid off some of 
the debts before releasing any balance to Mr U, something quite within its power to do. 
Nevertheless, the debts that Avant suggests Mr U could have paid off by its calculations 
reduced his credit commitments by about £34 a month (taking into account the new loan 
payment). When considering this brought those commitments down to about £1,303, any 
debt consolidation had no appreciable saving for Mr U on his credit commitments. Assuming 
two debts were consolidated these still amounted to around 31% of Mr Us stated monthly 
income of £4,224. This was high, and a possible indicator of lack of affordability, depending 
on Mr Us disposable income left after paying the new loan.
Avant calculated that Mr U would have had a monthly disposable income of around £722. 
But it accounts for this by removing half of his mortgage payment from his declared 
expenses, on the basis that this was a joint loan with his partner. The total monthly mortgage 
payment was £1,849. It also says that it would expect Mr U included some if not all of his 
credit expenses in the total expense figure, so it believes he would have much more income 
available to him. I should emphasise that I am considering the affordability assessment at 
the time of taking out the loan, not a subsequent justification for lending the money. Mr U 
produced a bank statement at the time of the application. From this, its clear that the total 
mortgage was paid from his bank account. No details of his partners income or contribution to any expenses have been produced, so I take it that the possibility of a contribution to the 
mortgage was assumed by Avant after the fact.
I think the full mortgage payment has to be taken into account, as firstly this is what appears 
on Mr Us application, secondly it was paid from his bank account and thirdly theres no 
indication that his partner was paying towards this. As for whether credit commitments were 
included in his normal outgoings again this is an assumption by Avant, not backed up by his 
bank account statement. Based on that, rather than having a disposable income of £722, 
Mr U would have had a negative disposable income of over £200. On that basis I dont think 
the loan was affordable, and Avant didnt make a fair lending decision.
In respect of Avants argument that the loan was repaid within 5 months is an indication of its 
affordability, I dont think thats the case. The affordability assessment at the time was based 
on the loan being for 36 months. I have no information as to how Mr U repaid the loan so 
quickly but on the evidence I have seen, it wasnt because he was able to put together 
sufficient income to do this.
Putting things right
Mr U has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Avant should refund all interest and 
charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr U as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr U has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information, if appropriate, about the loan from Mr Us credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr U 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman