DRN-3972310
The complaint
Ms M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford. For simplicity I will refer to the 
business as Tesco.
 
What happened
On 5 January 2017, Ms M applied for a credit card account with Tesco. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £250. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Ms M complained to Tesco to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for her because it wasnt affordable and that Tesco ought to have made a better effort to 
understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Tesco didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 2 February 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Ms complaint is that Tesco made credit available that was unaffordable. Tesco has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Ms M provided at the time of application to 
assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Ms Ms name to assess Ms 
Ms level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been managing that debt. With 
that information and using their own scoring metric, Tesco decided to agree to the credit limit 
of £250. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the lending decision. 
The Tesco checks showed that Ms M already had a significant amount of existing 
borrowings. And that may explain why the initial credit offered to Ms M was so modest. I 
have considered the expenditure analysis that was done at the time. It used information from 
Ms Ms application, Bureau data and assumptions made by Tesco. From this, Tesco 
considered the new credit was affordable. 
I have considered the affordability check in some detail. There was a discrepancy in the 
reported figures for the existing borrowing. The two credit reference agencies provided 
figures that differed for the amount of any loans and for the revolving balances. And Tesco 
has remained silent on how it used that information to populate its affordability data. For 
instance, its not clear how Tesco made its assumptions from the data it received. Tesco has 
been asked to explain these but at the time of writing I have not seen an explanation. And 
this could have been significant in this case but for the following.  
Ive also considered that Ms Ms credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. 
When I say this, I mean that Ms Ms management of her existing credit showed no recent 
history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. The credit check revealed there was a 
default but that was over five years prior to this application and there was no other adverse 
information on the credit file. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the 
lending decision was made, Ms M was affording her existing credit. And so, Tesco were not 
put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the 
information that Tesco had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel 
they ought to make more searching enquiries of Ms Ms financial situation. I consider the 
checks Tesco performed to have been proportionate for such a modest amount of credit. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Tesco at the time it made its lending 
decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Tesco acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, 
would have led them to think that the credit they were offering was unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Tesco provided to Ms M was unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 16 February 2023. Both parties to the complaint have 
acknowledged receiving the provisional decision. Tesco has agreed with my provisional 
findings. Ms M was disappointed with those findings as she has had other complaints 
upheld. But each case is considered on the merits of its own particular circumstances. As 
both parties have responded, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons 
(above) for not upholding Ms Ms complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman