DRN-3591677
The complaint
Company C complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have unfairly refused to refund 
money its director lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything in 
detail again here. In summary, Cs director (Miss G) held both a personal account for 
herself and a business account for C with Starling Bank. She says she fell victim to an 
investment scam in April 2021 where she transferred money from Cs business account to 
the broker EverFX in relation to a personal investment she was making (the transactions of 
which have formed the subject of a separate complaint against Starling).
After Miss G felt she had been scammed, she paid £6,000 from Cs business account in 
June 2021 for a company (PCS) to recover the money she had invested with EverFX. 
However, Miss G said this also turned out to be a scam as she says she never received the 
services she paid for. Starling refused to provide C with a refund or to process a chargeback 
claim, so the matter was referred to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Miss G had withdrawn money 
from Cs business account for her own personal use, such that it could be viewed as an 
arrangement she had made with her company for the money to be loaned to her, which she 
would then owe back to the company. As such, the investigator didnt consider that C had 
sustained any loss, given the money was still owed to it by Miss G. 
C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its important to note that this decision and complaint is not considering any transfers or 
payments that may have been made from Miss Gs personal bank account with Starling. The 
eligible complainant in this instance is Miss Gs company (C), as the payments were made to 
the merchant directly from Cs account. So, I will only be considering the disputed payment 
made to PCS from Cs account as part of this complaint. 
It isnt in dispute that C authorised the disputed payments made from its account using its 
Starling debit card. The payments were requested by Cs director using the companys 
legitimate security credentials provided by Starling, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to 
be made as instructed.
In this instance, the money was paid from the limited companys account for personal  
reasons  i.e. to recover the money Miss G had lost through her personal investment with 
EverFX. She has not provided any evidence to demonstrate that the payment to PCS was 
made for business purposes, for example, and has said that she didnt have sufficient funds 
in her personal account to make the payment. Im therefore satisfied the money was 
withdrawn for the purposes of Miss Gs own personal gain rather than for any business-
related purposes.
Miss G initially told this service that the money spent from Cs account was borrowed and 
would have been returned as a directors loan. She later said that the money transferred was 
her own personal funds, and she has provided an email from her accountant which states 
that the money in Cs account had been taxed and would be treated as dividends for Miss G 
as the only shareholder. There is no other documentary evidence confirming this was the 
position. But I have nevertheless considered both scenarios. 
If it was the case that the money in Cs account was due to be paid to Miss G as dividends, 
then her withdrawal of the money from the company account would be treated as it having 
discharged this debt. As a result, C cant be said to have suffered a financial loss in this 
situation as it has effectively paid money that was owed to Miss G as the sole shareholder 
(which she has then gone on to dispose of in her own personal capacity by paying PCS for 
its services). So, even if Starling ought to have intervened in the payment being made, it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask it to refund the money to the company in these 
circumstances as C has not actually sustained any loss. 
I understand that Miss G does not consider PCS to have provided the services she paid for, 
and that she has been unable to recover the £6,000 she sent to the merchant. But as Ive set 
out previously, this complaint is only concerned with any loss that C may have sustained as 
the company. C is the eligible complainant in this case, not Miss G. So, if she has lost 
money in her personal capacity, it isnt something that can fall to be considered under this 
complaint as she is not the eligible complainant.   
If, however, the money did in fact belong to C and was not owed to Miss G as dividends, I 
still dont consider it would be fair and reasonable for Starling to refund the payments. That is 
because Im not persuaded it would have been reasonably foreseeable to Starling that Cs 
director would transfer money out of the company account for her own personal use (rather 
than using it for business-related purposes). The cause of any loss from Cs account was 
therefore Miss G using the money for non-business purposes, because if she hadnt done 
so, the money would still be in Cs account. 
Miss G originally told this service that the funds from Cs account was borrowed money or a 
directors loan that would have to be returned. So, if the money did belong to the company 
and was borrowed by Miss G for personal gain, she would be liable to repay that debt to the 
company and reinstate the asset she has borrowed (with it effectively being treated as a 
loan). Cs money therefore cannot be said to have been lost to a scam in this scenario 
either, as it would still be owed the money by Miss G as the debtor in these circumstances. 
So, even if Starling did fail to intervene in the payment being made from Cs account, I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to reimburse the money, because its failure 
to act did not cause any loss in this instance. This would be the case in either scenario of 
whether the money was owed to Miss G as dividends, or whether it belonged to the limited 
company. As a result, I will not be asking Starling to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman