DRN-1843181
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the way in which Covea Insurance Plc handled a claim she made 
under her motor insurance policy. She is also concerned with the settlement amount Covea 
has offered for her car.
What happened
In August 2019 Ms S needed to make a claim under her motor insurance policy, after being 
involved in a car accident. Covea accepted Ms Ss claim. It said Ms S car was beyond 
economical repair. So, it offered a cash settlement to her  noting this was based on the pre-
accident value of the vehicle.
Ms S didnt agree that the settlement offer provided by Covea was fair. Covea increased this 
a couple of times  before noting that its final settlement offer for the car was £7,699 minus 
the relevant excess. It said it had come to this figure based on an average of the two highest 
values given in the trade guides for Ms S car. Ms S remained of the opinion this wasnt a fair 
settlement  and has explained she thinks an amount of £8,995 would be more reflective of 
her loss. And that it would allow her to buy another car, at a reputable dealer.
Ms S has also raised concerns with the way the claim was progressed by Covea. She has 
said she needed to call Covea in order to make sure her claim moved forward. She noted 
there was a delay in her car being picked up from the police  and when it was picked up it 
was taken to a salvage yard around 100 miles away from her property. And that 
communication with Covea largely took place verbally  when she felt it should have sent 
more to her in writing.
Covea has said it is satisfied the settlement offer it has provided to Ms S for her car is fair. In 
respect of the service Ms S received  Covea said it was satisfied it had followed the correct 
process when dealing with the claim. But it offered Ms S £200 compensation  because it 
said the service provided to Ms S had fallen short at times. 
Because Ms S remained in disagreement with Covea she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the settlement 
offer now provided for the car by Covea was fair, given it was in line with the information 
provided in the relevant trade guides. And he felt the compensation offered for the trouble 
and upset Ms S experienced was too. So, he didnt recommend that Covea do anything 
more.
Ms S didnt agree. She felt the way her vehicle was valued was unfair. Because Ms S didnt 
agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained my reasoning for 
this below.
Ive reviewed Ms S policy documentation. And I can see the policy booklet does explain that 
Covea will pay the market value of the relevant car, when looking to cash settle a claim. This 
is the case with many other motor insurance policies we see.
The market value of the car is the amount the car was worth, immediately before the car was 
deemed beyond economical repair by the insurer. When coming to this figure several factors 
are considered, such as the age and condition of the car, as well as the mileage the car had 
completed. 
This value is generally arrived at using motor trade guides. This is because it is an 
independent way of arriving at the cars value, based on likely nationwide selling prices of a 
particular vehicle. And because it considers factors such as the condition and mileage of the 
vehicle when sold, it is a good indicator of the cars market value. 
I appreciate Ms S is unhappy that trade guides have been used when considering the value 
of her car. But this isnt uncommon in the insurance industry. And Im aware Ms S policy 
booklet does explain what it will take into account when coming to the market value of a 
vehicle. Including trade guides. So, I dont think Covea did anything wrong by making use of 
these to value Ms S car.
Our service doesnt value vehicles. Instead, we look to see whether the insurer has made a 
fair and reasonable settlement offer in the circumstances. And whether its offer is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Ive thought about this in Ms S case.
Covea valued Ms S car in the way it said it would within her policy terms. And on checking 
the trade guides I can see they provided a range of values from £6,903 and £7,908. Covea 
took the top two values within the trade guides  which were £7,490 and £7,908, and took an 
average of these figures, arriving at a settlement of £7,699 (less the policy excess). Given 
that this offer of settlement is in line with the ranges provided with the motor trade guides, 
and Ms S policy terms, Im satisfied Covea has acted fairly in the settlement figure it has 
offered. And, Im not requiring it to increase this.
Ms S has also said she experienced problems with the handling of her claim. She has 
highlighted needing to contact Covea to progress her claim  and the lack of information 
provided in writing. Ive considered this element of Ms S complaint too. And because Covea 
has accepted some delays and poor service Ive thought about whether its offer of £200 
compensation is fair.
I am satisfied the offer of compensation provided in this case is reasonable. There were 
points during the claim where delays were unavoidable. For example, when the car was 
impounded by the police. But, as Covea has said there were times when the level of service 
provided to Ms C could have been better. And where Ms S did need to chase for information 
on the progress of her claim.  I can appreciate that for Ms S this would have been 
inconvenient and frustrating. So, I think it is reasonable for Covea to provide compensation. 
But I think the amount of £200 already offered fairly recognises this trouble and upset of. So, 
I dont think Covea needs to increase the compensation any further. 
Ms S has said her car was taken to a salvage yard that was too far from her home. Covea 
has given some explanation for the reason the vehicle was taken to this particular yard. It 
said it did this because it was the nearest salvage yard to where the car was being held at the time. Im satisfied this is a reasonable explanation as to why the car went where it did. 
And Im aware Covea did provide Ms S with the option of delivering the car back to her. But 
this wasnt accepted. Im satisfied Covea acted fairly based on this information. And 
therefore, I don't require it to do anything more in this respect.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied Covea 
Insurance plcs offer in respect of Ms S car is fair, as is the £200 compensation offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman