DRN-2441487
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with an offer made by Vitality Corporate Services Limited to put 
things right for a mistake that was made on their life insurance plan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a VitalityLife Essentials Plan after speaking to their financial adviser in 
late 2015. In early 2016 their financial adviser asked Vitality to make some changes to the 
policy. He asked for the inclusion of the indexation option and for the removal of the 
Optimiser option. 
The Optimiser option gives lower premiums in the first year of the plan. Theres also the 
potential for lower premiums in the future depending on how much the plan holders engage 
in the Optimiser healthy living program. It also means that premium indexation increases are 
higher than they would be without the Optimiser option added.
In early 2020 Mr and Mrs Ls financial adviser noticed that the Optimiser option hadnt been 
removed from the plan as requested as the premiums were increasing more than expected. 
Vitality looked into things and agreed to refund the Optimiser increases that had been 
applied to the plan. They also explained the options moving forward with the plan. Mr and 
Mrs L were unhappy with the offer of a refund and options presented by Vitality so brought 
their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the offer. She thought that the options presented were 
fair and reasonable resolution. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so the complaint has come to me for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L are being represented in their complaint by their financial adviser. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mr and Mrs L.
Mr and Mrs L have provided a lot of information about their complaint and why they are 
unhappy with the offer from Vitality. I want to assure Mr and Mrs L that Ive read, and given 
careful consideration, to everything theyve submitted. If I havent mentioned something, or 
answered a particular point, its not because Ive ignored it. Ive condensed what happened 
into a short summary which reflects the informal nature of our service.
In order to say whether I think the offer made by Vitality is fair, I think its important to talk 
about the issue that gave rise to problem.
All parties agree on two things:
- Mr and Mrs L didnt want the Optimiser added to their plan and on the application 
form they ticked the no box.
- When Vitality set up the plan the Optimiser option was added when it shouldnt have 
been. 
Mr and Mrs L say they asked for the Optimiser to be removed from the plan. Because of a 
lack of records due to I.T. issues Vitality are unable to confirm this, but say they are willing to 
accept that Mr and Mrs L asked for it to be removed. Though they note that all of the quotes 
provided showed the plan had the Optimiser added on including the one which was selected 
and placed on risk. 
After the request for the Optimiser to be removed, and for the indexation option to be added, 
Vitality provided a new schedule for the plan. Mr and Mrs L say that this schedule shows the 
Optimiser being removed. Because of this they didnt question the matter further until 2020.
Having looked at the revised schedule I dont think it does confirm the Optimiser had been 
removed. It says, in part,: If you do not wish to continue with Vitality Plus you have the option 
not to, however if your remove Vitality Plus you will need to remove Vitality Optimiser as 
well. I think this indicates that the Optimiser is still attached the plan. Mr and Mrs L disagree 
saying that this is a generic wording which is on all plans of this type.
After the revised schedule was issued Vitality sent annual anniversary letters to both Mr and 
Mrs L and their financial adviser. 
An anniversary letter was sent in November 2016. On the first page of the letter under the 
heading Your savings with premium Discount it said Vitality Optimiser gave you an upfront 
discount on your premiums. I think this makes it clear that the Optimiser was still on the plan. 
In November 2017 another anniversary letter was issued. On the front page of this letter was 
a heading in bold Your premiums with Vitality Optimiser followed by information about how 
the Optimiser worked. This bold heading and information were also included in the 
November 2018 and November 2019 anniversary letters. 
Even if I agreed that the revised schedule in early 2016 wasnt clear about the Optimiser 
being removed, Im satisfied the anniversary letters made it clear this wasnt the case.
These letters are important as they made Mr and Mrs L, and their financial adviser, aware 
that the Optimiser option was still on the plan. This matters because the main reason Mr and 
Mrs L dont accept the offer from Vitality is because they now cant obtain cover from another 
provider on similar terms and premiums that they wouldve been able to obtain back in 2016 
had they been aware of the problem. 
Mr and Mrs L say in their submissions that they were under the impression they had 
purchased a contract for life and there was no need to review the terms annually. Mr and 
Mrs Ls financial adviser said that they were set to review the plan in 2020 and thats when 
they discovered the problem. I can understand this, but I must balance it against the 
anniversary letters which made clear that the Optimiser was still attached to the plan. Mr and 
Mrs L and their financial adviser might not have read the anniversary letters, but Vitality 
provided them, and Im satisfied they make the features of the plan clear with the Optimiser 
being shown on page 1.
When coming to a decision about whether the offer is fair I need to consider both sides. Its 
agreed Vitality made an error, but I think the error was made obvious on more than one 
occasion through the schedule and anniversary letters. 
Because the Optimiser option was added to the plan premium indexation increases were 
more than they wouldve been without the option added. As a resolution of the complaint Vitality have offered to refund these increases along with 8% interest. Im satisfied this is a 
fair outcome for what happened as those increases would not have been charged had the 
plan been set up correctly. So this puts Mr and Mrs L back in the financial position they 
would be in had the Optimiser not been added.
Vitality gave two options for the plan moving forward:
- Leave the plan as it is so that the premium remains the same, the only requirement 
would be that Mr and Mrs L engage with the Optimiser program to benefit from 
reduced premiums
- Remove the Optimiser from the plan which would result in an increase to the 
premiums. The Optimiser discount would be removed, however the premium 
discount agreed between Vitality and Mrs and Mrs Ls financial adviser would still 
apply.
Neither of these options are acceptable to Mr and Mrs L. They want the revised schedule of 
March 2016 to be kept in place with the Optimiser option removed and with the same level of 
premiums. Because it has been some 5 years since the plan was taken out any policy with 
another provider will now cost significantly more. With these two things combined they dont 
think the offer is fair.
Im satisfied that the offer is fair and I wont be asking Vitality to do anything else. 
Vitality did make a mistake. But they also made Mr and Mrs L sufficiently aware, on several 
occasions, that the mistake hadnt been corrected. Mr and Mrs L say they now cant obtain 
equivalent cover elsewhere for the price they wouldve been able to do in 2016 had they 
been aware of the problem. But I think Vitality did make them aware of the problem in 2016, 
and in the years following. Even if the problem wasnt clear on the March 2016 schedule, it 
was made clear in the first anniversary letter towards the end of the year. Its then Mr and 
Mrs L couldve taken action. Seemingly neither Mr and Mrs L nor their financial adviser read 
the anniversary letters, but the important thing is that Vitality sent the letters, and the 
Optimiser was made clear on Page 1. 
Im satisfied that Vitality made clear the Optimiser option had been added to the plan and 
that they made Mr and Mrs L sufficiently aware of this. Im happy the offer made by Vitality is 
a fair way of putting things right.
Putting things right
Vitality should refund Mr and Mrs L the Optimiser increases applied to the plan with 8% 
simple interest.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs L to decide what to do about the plan moving forward with either of 
the options provided by Vitality.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that Vitality Corporate Services Limited 
should make payment to Mr and Mrs L as Ive outline above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman