DRN-2316038
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK plc has not properly compensated him for a mistake it 
made in connection with his credit card account.
What happened
Santander wrongly made a balance transfer from Mr Ns credit card account. Mr N noticed 
the transaction late at night, and contacted Santander to find out what was going on. 
Santander couldnt make a full investigation at that time, but it blocked Mr Ns card for 
security and asked him to call back the following day.
Santander accepted it had made the transfer in error. It refunded the money and offered Mr 
N compensation of £25. 
Mr N didnt consider the compensation was enough. Mr N suffers from a particular medical 
condition, and the nature of Santanders mistake had aggravated the symptoms. In light of 
the distress Mr N had suffered, he considered Santander should increase its compensation 
substantially.
Our investigator recommended Santander should increase its compensation to £150. He 
accepted that Santander had acted promptly when it realised its mistake, and it hadnt been 
aware of the condition Mr N suffers from. But the investigator recognised the impact of 
banks mistake on Mr N in his particular circumstances, which was why he considered the 
compensation should be increased.
Santander accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr N didnt. He didnt consider 
the increased compensation properly reflected the significant distress Santanders mistake 
had caused. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Santander made a mistake in connection with Mr Ns credit card 
account. So I have to decide whether the compensation recommended by the investigator is 
fair and reasonable in light of what happened. 
When Mr N contacted the bank it took immediate steps to protect his account, and returned 
the money promptly once the mistake was identified. But Mr N says that in the meantime he 
suffered considerable distress and the symptoms of his medical condition were aggravated.
While Santander was investigating the transaction in question, Mr N didnt know whether his 
account had been compromised. Keeping in mind the nature of the medical condition Mr N 
suffers from, I dont underestimate the considerable worry and distress the banks mistake 
will have caused. So I can understand why he might consider the suggested compensation 
of £150 isnt enough. 
Given the amount of compensation Mr N is seeking, I would also like to reassure him that 
the lower amount suggested by the investigator isnt a measure of how this service views his 
condition. I would also add that our compensation awards arent designed to punish a 
business. Our approach is to look at the impact of a banks mistake on an individual, in their 
particular circumstances. 
When I take account of the mistake, the way in which it was corrected, and the impact on Mr 
N in his particular circumstances, Im satisfied that compensation of £150 is fair and 
reasonable. So I wont be asking Santander to pay any more than that. 
Putting things right
Santander should pay £125 to Mr N in addition to the £25 it has already paid.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK plc should pay compensation to Mr N in line with the 
instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman