DRN-1735694
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ald Automotive Limited (Ald), trading as Mazda Contract Hire, 
wouldnt allow his car to be collected on a Sunday when his hire period ended.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Mr R so please let me explain.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.   
The terms of the finance agreement said that the car should be returned before the 
end of the agreement. It was Mr Rs responsibility to deliver the car to any address 
specified. Ive not seen that he offered to do this. It seems he was trying to arrange a 
collection of the car.
The agreement said the business may agree to collect the car. It didnt say they 
would collect the car. It was a free and complimentary service and, whilst I 
understand that the agreement didnt explain collections couldnt take place on a 
Sunday, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ald not to offer this service. It was 
outside of the normal working week and they werent obliged to provide it.
Its clear that the business did try to accommodate Mr Rs request as they eventually 
offered a Saturday collection, but I understand that by that point Mr R had made 
alternative arrangements. I think Ald had been fair when trying to make alternative 
arrangements. 
Mr R says that if he had to arrange collection of the vehicle at a point after the 
contract had terminated, and because a Sunday collection wasnt possible, hed have 
to pay extra charges and MOT the car. That may have been the case, but the 
collection of the car wasnt a contractual obligation and Ive not seen evidence that 
Mr R offered to return the car himself on the Sunday. So, it would be unfair to 
suggest Ald did anything wrong.
I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Ald to take any further action as I think their 
approach here has been reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman