DRN-3645125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that CB Payments Ltd failed to prevent them from falling victim to a 
cryptocurrency scam in November 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H say they were tricked into sending money via Coinbase as part of an 
investment scam, which they had converted into cryptocurrency from their CB Payments e-
money account. 
Mr and Mrs H complained when Coinbase failed to refund the digital currency they had lost 
to the scam. In summary, theyve said:
Coinbase didnt alert them to a potential scam, neither did they attempt to recover 
their cryptocurrency after it had been lost. It also failed to carry out adequate 
KYC/AML checks on the merchant they were sending money to. 
CB Payments should have picked up on the unusual activity taking place within their 
e-money account and should have prevented the payments from being made. 
Our investigator said that CB Payments is a regulated business and one this service can 
consider complaints against. But the vast majority of what Mr and Mrs H complained about 
concerned the handling of their cryptocurrency by Coinbase UK, who the investigator 
explained was an unregulated business.
He went on to explain that the only activities CB Payments are responsible and regulated for 
are in relation to e-money. The only aspect of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that related to their 
e-money account was in regard to CB Payments failing to pick up on unusual activity, which 
the investigator didnt uphold. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
Coinbase cryptocurrency
The rules under which we operate are set out in the FCAs Handbook and are collectively 
known as the DISP rules. Particularly relevant to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is DISP 2.2 
which states:
DISP 2.2: Which complaints can be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman 
Service?
2.2.1 The scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service's two jurisdictions depends on:
(1) the type of activity to which the complaint relates
Those activities are then listed in DISP 2.3 (although I will not list all of them here). But 
having considered that list, most of what Mr and Mrs H are complaining about is not 
considered a regulated activity. 
Mr and Mrs H had entered into an agreement with CB Payments with a view to trading 
cryptocurrency. They agreed to terms and conditions set out in its user agreement. In doing 
so, they also entered into an agreement with a separate, but very closely linked, limited 
company  Coinbase UK. The agreement contains terms that are exclusive to CB Payments 
and Coinbase UK respectively. But, at the same time, the two companies are often jointly 
referred to as Coinbase.
Mr and Mrs H made transfers into their CB Payments account, where they then purchased 
cryptocurrency. At this point, the money was transferred from their CB Payments account to 
their Coinbase UK cryptocurrency account. It was then the cryptocurrency that was sent 
from this account to the scammer.
Theres little in the form of cryptocurrency that is regulated in the UK at this point in time. 
Which means there is very little scope for us to consider a complaint against a business that 
provides services linked to such activities. Coinbase UK wasnt regulated and didnt need to 
be because it only dealt in unregulated activities. So, I therefore cannot consider any of Mr 
and Mrs Hs complaint points regarding Coinbase failing to prevent the scam, to carry out 
checks on the scam merchant or recovering the digital currency they lost. 
CB Payments e-money account
CB Payments is a regulated business and it does carry out regulated activities. But, those 
activities are isolated to e-money and include the placing and withdrawing of cash from an 
account. 
Mr and Mrs H have raised the concern that CB Payments should have picked up on the 
unusual activity taking place within their e-money account, such that it should have 
prevented the payments from being made. However, Im not persuaded there was anything 
unusual about the funds they were depositing into their e-money account and converting into 
cryptocurrency, which appear to be fairly typical for electronic money accounts of this nature. 
So, I dont think CB Payments were under any obligation to question Mr and Mrs H about the 
funds or to have prevented them from converting their money to cryptocurrency. As a result, 
in relation to the small part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that I can consider, I will not be 
upholding it.  
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, and Im sorry to hear 
theyve fallen victim a scam. But, for the reasons given above, I wont be asking 
CB Payments to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman