DRN-2696447
The complaint
Mr K and Ms S say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr K and Ms S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995. Mr K and Ms S paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr K in case he 
was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K and Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Ms Ss case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr K and Ms Ss mortgage application offered them the choice to take PPI or turn it down. 
Its recorded that they chose the option to buy PPI and picked what kind of cover theyd like. 
Then they signed the application to confirm their choices. Ive not seen any wider problems 
with Bradford & Bingleys sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr K 
or Ms S were misled here. They didnt have to take out a policy, and as far as I can see it 
was presented as an optional extra. So I think its most likely that Bradford & Bingley made 
Mr K and Ms S aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
This was a non-advised sale  Bradford & Bingley didnt give Mr K and Ms S tailored 
advice about buying PPI. That means Bradford & Bingley did not have to check whether the 
policy was right for them or look into their other methods of keeping up payments. Bradford 
& Bingley was only required to give Mr K and Ms S clear information about the PPI, then it 
was up to Mr K and Ms S to decide for themselves whether it was right for them. Similarly, 
Bradford & Bingley was not required to do annual suitability checks, as Mr K and Ms S have 
suggested it should have. Again, Im afraid it was up to Mr K and Ms S to review their own 
needs as time went on.
In terms of the key information, the cost and benefit of the policy were set out clearly. So 
I think Mr K and Ms S wouldve understood how much the PPI would cost and what it could 
pay out in turn.
It is possible that Bradford & Bingley didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt 
cover. But Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things, so I dont think 
that better information about this wouldve put Mr K and Ms S off buying the PPI.
Lastly, Mr K and Ms S mentioned that many other policies had been aggressively sold or 
otherwise mis-sold, and I understand why they raised this. But different policies worked in 
different ways, were sold using different methods at different times, were suitable in different 
circumstances, and so on. So though some PPI policies were mis-sold, others were not. We 
look at each case on its individual merits. Ive explained above why Ive not found this 
particular policy to have been mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr K and Ms Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman