DRN-3627860
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund a transfer made from his 
account, that Mr B says he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 6 December 2021, a direct debit indemnity claim was submitted to Barclays which Mr B 
says he wasnt aware of and didnt make. As a result, around £1,700 was credited into 
Mr Bs account. 
Following this amount being credited, there were two transfers out of Mr Bs account on 
6 December 2021 that he says he didnt authorise. The first was for £850, and the second 
was for £950.
Barclays stopped the second payment of £950 for questioning  with Mr B advising that he 
wasnt aware of and hadnt carried out any of the disputed activity.
Mr B says his phone and bank card remained in his possession. And he hadnt shared any 
of his security details with anyone. Mr B doesnt know or understand how the activity has 
happened. 
For the first transfer (of £850), Barclays say it was completed through Barclays mobile 
banking and made through Mr Bs registered mobile device associated to the mobile 
banking. Barclays say that a new payee was set up and the process for setting up a new 
payee also required Mr Bs card details to be entered. Barclays also say the Internet 
Protocol address (often referred to as I.P address) was an I.P address that was commonly 
used by Mr B. 
The second transfer (of £900) which was stopped, was attempted through a different mobile 
device that was registered on the afternoon of 6 December 2021. 
Barclays consider there was no other way for anyone other than Mr B to have authorised the 
activity he is disputing. Because of this Barclays have held Mr B liable for the transfer of 
£850 that was made.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised 
they were persuaded that the evidence showed that it was more likely than not that Mr B or 
someone with his knowledge and consent carried out the disputed activity.
Mr B responded disagreeing with the Investigators opinion. As the matter hasnt been 
resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
the disputed activity was more than likely carried out by Mr B or by someone with his 
knowledge and consent or whether it was carried out without his knowledge or consent 
meaning it was unauthorised. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Barclays actions, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. But, in weighing everything up, I dont 
think Barclays acted unfairly in its answering of the complaint or that it needs to reimburse 
him. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case Barclays) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. 
PSR 2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mr B says he didnt carry out the direct debit indemnity request and didnt consent to or 
authorise the transfer and is seeking a refund of the transfer made from his account.
Barclays considers the evidence suggests the disputed activity was authorised by Mr B. 
Because of this Barclays consider Mr B is therefore liable for the amount transferred from his 
account. 
So, in this case, I need to think about whether the evidence I have seen suggests the 
disputed activity was more likely than not carried out by Mr B or someone with his 
knowledge and consent or whether it was carried out by an unknown party without his 
knowledge and consent.
The disputed transfer  was it authenticated?
Barclays has provided records to show what mobile device Mr B had registered at the time. 
Barclays has also provided records showing the dates and times Mr B logged into his mobile 
banking and also how access was gained  so either through the pass code or through other 
means such as touch ID or Face ID. 
Ive looked at the technical evidence provided by Barclays. The disputed transfer of £850 
was made through mobile banking and this was accessed through Mr Bs registered mobile 
device  an android mobile. The records also show that when mobile banking was accessed 
for the transfer to be made, Mr Bs correct security details were entered to gain access to the 
online banking. And this was through Mr Bs pass code being entered. So Im satisfied from Barclays technical evidence that Mr Bs registered mobile device was 
used when the disputed transfer was made, and that the transfer was authenticated as 
Mr Bs correct security details were entered to make the transfer. 
This means I now need to determine whether I think its more likely than not that Mr B or 
someone with his knowledge and consent carried out the disputed activity, or whether I think 
it was carried out without his knowledge and consent. 
In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mr B could have 
carried out the disputed activity without Mr Bs consent.
Could an unknown party have carried out the disputed activity without Mr Bs consent?
In short, Im not persuaded the disputed activity was carried out by an unknown party. Ill 
explain why.
Im satisfied the disputed transfer was conducted through mobile banking on Mr Bs 
registered mobile device. 
Mr Bs mobile device remained in his possession at the time in question. And Mr B says no-
one knew his banking security details and he hadnt shared them with anyone. Mr B has also 
explained that he wasnt called by anyone and didnt download any software to his mobile. 
Given this, it is unlikely that an unknown third party gained access to Mr Bs mobile phone 
without his knowledge to carry out the activity. And Im also mindful that a new payee was 
set up, and this required Mr Bs card details to be entered into the mobile banking to 
complete the payment. So I think it is unlikely an unknown third party obtained Mr Bs mobile 
and knowing Mr Bs security details and bank card details made the disputed transfer and 
then returned his mobile device and bank card. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to suggest an unknown party carried out the disputed activity.
Could a known party have carried out the disputed activity without Mr Bs consent?
For much the same reasons Ive set out above, I dont find it likely that a known party 
obtained Mr Bs mobile device and card and made the disputed transfer without his consent. 
Again, the mobile device and card would have to be obtained and returned without Mr B 
realising. And the known party would have had to have obtained Mr B pass code at some 
point. But Mr B has said that his phone and card remained in his possession and no-one 
knew his security details and he hadnt shared them or his card details with anyone.
Taking into consideration the above, I find that I agree with our investigator  that is to say 
its more likely than not that the disputed activity was carried out by Mr B or was carried out 
by someone with his knowledge and consent. I say this because his registered mobile 
device was used, from an I.P address used commonly and frequently, and with the security 
pass code and card details being used that Mr B says no-one else knew. 
Because of this, and because the transfer out of Mr Bs account occurred shortly after a 
credit of direct debit indemnity refund had come into the account leads me to conclude that 
is more likely than not that Mr B was aware of and had knowledge of the direct debit 
indemnity request.I am also mindful that Barclays say the direct debt indemnity claim would have only been 
able to be requested once a customer passes the verification process in place for security. If 
over the phone, this would require a caller to know significant information about Mr B. Or if 
through the mobile banking application it would require someone having access to Mr Bs 
mobile and knowing his security pass code. And I cant see how either a known or unknown 
party to Mr B would have the knowledge of Mr Bs security details, which Im mindful that 
Mr B says he hadnt shared, or that they would have access to Mr Bs mobile device which 
Mr B says remained in his possession. Based on this, I think it is more likely than not that 
Mr B or someone with his knowledge and consent carried out the direct debit indemnity 
request. 
Mr B has commented on phone hacking and cloning and that his social media account had 
been hacked and has provided some messages he received from someone on social media. 
But I have to weigh up, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened. Mr B has remained of the opinion that he didnt carry out any of the activity 
and that his mobile and card remained in his possession and no one knew his security 
details or pass code. But the evidence as set out above leads me to conclude that Mr Bs 
registered mobile device was used, with the mobile banking being accessed using Mr Bs 
pass code and the new payee set up using Mr Bs card details. I havent seen anything to 
suggest another scenario is more likely here. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration, its hard for me to see how somebody other 
than Mr B or someone with his knowledge and consent, carried out the disputed activity Mr B 
is now disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to reimburse 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman