DRN-4330017
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc withheld a declined transaction for five working 
days.
What happened
Mr M made a payment of £3,500 to a merchant. HSBC authorised the payment, but the 
merchant didnt claim the payment or cancel the transaction. 
This meant that HSBC had to withhold the £3,500 as pending for five working days, until the 
transaction had effectively timed out. Mr M wasnt happy about this and wanted HSBC to 
have released his money to him sooner. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr M and explained what had happened and reiterated their position. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Mr M has provided several detailed submissions to this service 
regarding his complaint. Id like to thank Mr M for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services 
role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr M notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr M and HSBC. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr M is unhappy that the £3,500 in question was withheld by HSBC for 
five working days, and I dont dispute that this would have been frustrating and inconvenient 
for Mr M. However, I dont feel that it was unfair.
I say this because Im satisfied that the explanation that HSBC provided to Mr M as to why 
theyd had to withhold the money for five-working days was correct. And Im therefore 
satisfied that the fact that Mr Ms money was held as pending for five working days by HSBC 
was an unfortunate but necessary consequence of the merchant neither claiming nor 
cancelling the payment in question.
Mr M is unhappy that when he questioned why his money was being withheld, he was asked 
to search for the relevant rules and guidance himself. But HSBC were acting in accordance 
with rules and guidance pertaining to the card provider  the company whose logo is on his 
credit card. And given that the card provider is a company separate to HSBC, it seems 
reasonable that HSBC would ask Mr M to search for the relevant information at a more 
appropriate source. And I dont feel its unfair or unreasonable that HSBC werent able to 
directly provide Mr M with a copy of the third-party rules which were influencing their actions.
Mr M notes that when he searched for the relevant rules and guidance, he found information 
which included that, generally, when a transaction is declined, the funds should be released 
back to the customers account promptly, usually within a few business days. And Mr M 
notes that this didnt happen in this instance, and that this is the basis of his complaint.
Notably however, the paragraph that Mr M has quoted here continues as follows: The exact 
timeline may vary depending on the specific circumstances, the payment processor, and the 
card issuer involved. And, as explained, Im satisfied that in this instance, HSBC did only 
withhold Mr Ms money for as long as was necessary, and no longer.
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly towards Mr M as he feels 
is the case here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing HSBC to take any further or alternative action. I realise this wont be the outcome 
Mr M was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman