DRN-3805444
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that she told the broker Barry Grainger Ltd the type of tracking device 
on her car when she changed it under her car insurance policy - but when her car was stolen 
the insurer rejected the claim as her car didnt have the tracker required. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs E changed her car and told the broker who sold her car insurance 
policy to her. The agent at Barry Grainger Ltd told Mrs E that the underwriter of the policy 
required Mrs Es car to have a Category 5 tracker fitted to it. 
Mrs E said she had written down what the tracker was - and said it was the one her previous 
car had - and so she said she thought it would be covered. 
The agent said; OK thats fine then - that shouldnt be a problem. 
Mrs Es car was stolen and she made a claim to the insurer. The insurer rejected the claim 
as Mrs Es car didnt have a Category 5 Thatcham approved tracker fitted at the time of the 
theft. This was an endorsement set out under Mrs Es policy schedule as a condition of 
cover in the event of a theft claim. 
Mrs E complained to Barry Grainger Ltd. But it didnt uphold her complaint. So Mrs E asked 
us to look at things for her. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He listened to the call 
recording where the tracker was discussed. He found that Mrs E had made a statement that 
she believed the tracking device attached to her car would be covered. He found that the 
agent had explained what was required. And the policy set out the same. And he explained 
that the onus was on Mrs E to check that her cars security met the conditions of the policy. 
Mrs E didnt agree. She wants an ombudsman to decide. She says that because the agent 
made an error in quoting the excess that applied, this shows the agent wasnt paying 
attention and was incompetent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the key call recording where Mrs E changed her car and the security of her 
car was discussed. 
I think the agent made it clear what level of security was required by the underwriter of the 
policy - and therefore it was for Mrs E to check her cars security met the requirements. 
The policy documents sent to Mrs E on the change of vehicle set out under the policy 
schedule in capital letters the endorsements that apply to all drivers under the policy. The 
key endorsement was set out as follows:
E223 - Cat 5 tracking device - It is a condition of this insurance that a Thatcham 
approved Category 5 tracking device is fitted to the insured vehicle and that it is 
operative. In the absence of any operative Thatcham approved Category 5 tracking 
device all theft cover under the policy is inoperative
The agent also highlighted to Mrs E during the call that a Category 5 tracker was a 
requirement of the underwriter, which Mrs E acknowledged and commented that her current 
car had the same tracker as her previous one, which she thought would be ok. 
This is something Mrs E would know. As a broker, Barry Grainger Ltd let Mrs E know what 
was needed in order to meet the conditions of cover under the policy. Insurers have different 
appetites for risk - and set out conditions of cover in order to satisfy that risk. So any terms 
and conditions that applied to previous insurance - or a previous car - isnt relevant to the 
information given to Mrs E in this key call and the policy documents provided to reflect this 
change. 
Any error in relation to other parts of cover which were discussed during the call are 
separate. If Mrs E raises a complaint about this - or if she had raised a complaint about a 
separate error - the outcome of that complaint doesnt change my decision on whether Barry 
Grainger Ltd acted unfairly when discussing the tracker security requirement. 
Im very sorry to read of the impact the declined claim by the insurer has had on Mrs E. But I 
cant safely conclude that Barry Grainger Ltd acted unreasonably. So this means Im not 
asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman