DRN-3710067
The complaint
Mr G has complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim under 
a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr G contacted IPA to send an engineer to deal with an issue in his home. IPA contacted an 
engineer to arrange a visit. Mr G called IPA again a few hours later because he hadnt heard 
anything further. IPA contacted a different company to send an engineer. 
The following morning an engineer from the first company visited and repaired the issue. A 
few hours later, an engineer from the second company arrived at Mr Gs home. Mr G told 
him the leak had already been repaired.
Mr G complained to IPA because of the issue with him getting call backs, the engineers 
visits and the impact on him because he didnt have water. When IPA replied, it accepted 
there had been issues with sending engineers and that this had left Mr G without water for 
an extended period of time. It offered £200 compensation as an apology.
When Mr G complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said IPA had 
accepted there were issues with how the claim had been dealt with. He said the 
compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said IPA should have got in touch to arrange the engineers visit and that it broke its 
service level agreements in how it dealt with the claim. IPA has accepted that someone 
should have been in touch to arrange the visit and that it didnt comply with the timescales it 
set for dealing with issues.
When Mr G phoned to find out what was happening about the engineers visit, IPA offered to 
pay for alternative accommodation. Mr G didnt think this was acceptable because he would 
have to pay for it himself and then claim it back. Ive looked at the policy wording. This said it 
would reimburse up to £100 towards alternative accommodation. I havent seen evidence 
that persuades me IPA acted unfairly in what it advised Mr G.
Mr G also thought IPA should have known the first engineer had visited. IPA accepted there 
was confusion over the engineers visits and that it didnt realise the first engineer had visited 
and that the second engineer could be cancelled. 
Mr G said the compensation IPA offered wasnt enough because his house wasnt liveable, 
he didnt have funds to pay for a hotel himself and they should have appointed a plumber 
who worked 24 hours a day. Ive thought about this carefully, including our services 
approach to compensation. I can understand that Mr G thinks he has been let down by IPA. 
IPA agreed there were a number of issues with the service it provided. Thinking about 
everything that happened, I think the £200 offered by IPA was fair in the circumstances to 
reflect the issues with dealing with the claim and the impact on Mr G. As a result, I dont 
require IPA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman