DRN-1700294
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about being charged £750 by Allianz Trust Savings Limited for moving his 
ISA holdings to a new provider.  
 
What happened
Mr H decided to consolidate his investments by transferring his holdings to a single provider, 
but only Allianz charged him for this process. He thinks this is unfair and wants a refund of 
the fees.   
Mr H thought that hed only be charged a flat fee of £100 (plus VAT) in accordance with 
section 3.1 of Allianz charging document, but was shocked and surprised to find that he was 
being charged £9.99 plus £50 for each of his 15 line items of stock. 
He feels the charges are excessive and unfair as Allianz probably sold his shares 
electronically online. 
Allianz hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it says:
Its sorry Mr H is unhappy about the dealing charges applied to the sale of his 15 
investments when transferring to a new provider.
It received an electronic request from the transferee on 15 January 2018, as part of 
the request it was instructed to sell 15 of Mr Hs investments and transfer the cash.  
These investments were sold (as instructed) and a £50 charge was applied to each 
trade. Because it was instructed to sell shares for Mr H, this was classed as an offline 
trade which attracted the £50 charge to each trade.  
The other charge only applied when the client makes the trade online, which wasnt 
the case here. 
Because it received instructions directly from Mr H it wouldnt have queried them.  
Its sorry this wasnt something Mr H was expecting but it hasnt done anything 
wrong.   
 
Mr H disagreed with Allianz and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr H held a self-managed account with Allianz which provided an execution-only 
service.
Section 3.1of the charges document makes clear that if you are transferring out your 
account to another provider in its current form (and existing Investments are 
transferred in-specie), because it is a one-off process for us, you just pay a one-off charge regardless of how many Investments you hold in each Account. The charge 
for this is £100 (plus VAT) and was what Mr H was expecting. 
Section 3.1 also makes clear that if Mr H decided to sell his investments, but didnt 
carry out the sales himself online, a postal/phone dealing charge would apply  the 
charge for which is £50 per transaction as outlined in section 2 of the charges 
document. 
In order to make the transfer into his ISA with the new provider, his investments had 
to be sold first for which Allianz received the instructions in January 2018. But 
because Mr H didnt conduct the transactions himself, postal/telephone dealing 
charges were applied. 
In conclusion Allianz hasnt done anything wrong.     
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, he made the following key 
points:
The charges are misleading. They dont make clear that itll be £100 (plus VAT) plus 
£750 for 15 investments which he held but didnt himself sell online, before he sent 
Allianz instructions to sell in order to transfer to another provider.  
He feels hes been treated unfairly because he wasnt told that the transfer would 
cost him another £750 if he instructed the business to sell.  
Hes unhappy that he wasnt told hed need to press sell 15 times  which wouldve 
taken him 2 minutes  when he instructed Allianz to sell the shares for him. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im not persuaded that 
Allianz has behaved unreasonably by charging him for selling his shares before the transfer. 
 
But before I proceed, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise Mr Hs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by him and Allianz, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr H says, I think Allianz made 
reasonably clear the charges that would apply when it came to transferring holdings to 
another provider. Im reasonably satisfied that it also made clear that higher rates would 
apply if it was instructed to sell shares on Mr Hs behalf before transferring the cash.  
I note that that this was a self-managed account, and Allianz provided an execution only 
service, therefore I think it was entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement  to charge fees as well as set reasonable rates for any activities that 
it was instructed to perform. 
In the circumstances, on balance Im not persuaded that it was obliged to advise Mr H 
about the charges having made it clear in the documentation provided beforehand. 
I dont think Allianz is suggesting that Mr H made an application on the telephone/post, I 
think its simply saying that by instructing it to sell his shares for him, his request was classed 
as an offline request, and therefore it was entitled to charge £50 for every trade which I think 
is reasonable as this wasnt an in-specie transfer. 
I dont think its relevant whether or not it was simply pressing sell on an online platform, it 
was performing a service and was entitled to charge for it. I appreciate Mr H thought the 
process wouldnt cost more than £100 (plus VAT), but Ive seen nothing to suggest that this 
would be the cases where Allianz was instructed to sell the shares. 
I appreciate Allianz, as a business, can decide not to charge Mr H a penny for the 
transaction, as its entirely within its gift to do so. But Im unable to say that it has done 
anything wrong by applying the fees in the way that it has. In other words, despite what Mr H 
says, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that the fees were applied incorrectly. 
I appreciate Mr H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything else.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman