DRN-4298442
The complaint
Miss P complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2017, Miss P fell victim to a romance scam and as a result made two payments from her 
Metro account  both were made on 14 August 2017 and were international payments for 
£10,000 each. When she tried to make the third payment on 17 August 2017, the scam was 
uncovered by Metro, and no further payments were made. 
Miss P raised a fraud claim with Metro, but they declined to refund her. They told Miss P that 
theyd contacted the beneficiary banks, but no funds had been recovered.
Miss P wasnt happy with their response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint and upheld it, recommending that Metro fully 
refund Miss P and pay simple interest at 8% per year on that refund.
Metro disagreed with the investigators recommendation, for the following reasons:
For the first two payments, Miss P told them she was paying solicitors fees for a 
friend. Metro considered this to be a genuine payment purpose and arent convinced 
further questioning was required.
They asked further questions when Miss P made the third payment, because a 
pattern had formed. But dont believe they shouldve been concerned when she 
made the first two payments.
Romance scams were less prevalent in 2017.
As the case couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent considered Metros obligations for reimbursement under the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) because the payments 
were made prior to the introduction of the CRM Code in 2019, and we cant apply the CRM 
Code retrospectively. Also, the CRM Code doesnt apply to international payments. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Metro are expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And its not disputed that Miss P made and authorised 
these payments, although I accept that she did so, as the result of a scam.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having reviewed Miss Ps previous account use, Im satisfied that both of these payments 
were unusual and out of character, and that Metro shouldve been concerned and identified 
a potential scam risk. I say this because Miss Ps account was rarely used for payments over 
£1,500. The only other large payment she had made was a £20,000 transfer between her 
accounts, which occurred three months prior to the scam payments. Also, Miss P didnt 
regularly make international payments, and both of these payments were made on the same 
day, to two different payees, and meant Miss P was sending a total of £20,000.
 
As I think Metro shouldve been concerned that Miss P might be the victim of a scam, I 
wouldve expected them to ask appropriate questions in relation to the payments. I dont 
agree with Metros position that they shouldve accepted the payment purpose she gave 
without further questioning.
When Miss P made the third payment, Metro asked additional questions, despite her giving 
the same payment reason as for the first two payments. As a result, Metro uncovered the 
scam. Based on this, I think its more likely than not, that had Metro asked similar questions 
for the first two payments, they wouldve uncovered the scam and prevented Miss Ps loss.
 
Metro say romance scams were less prevalent in 2017, and that Miss P didnt tell them she 
had met the friend through a dating website. However, Metro are the professionals in this 
situation and where a scam risk is identified or shouldve been identified, the onus is on them 
to ask appropriate questions to satisfy themselves with regards to the reason for the 
payment and whether the customer may be the victim of a scam. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Metro should refund Miss P for both payments she 
made as a result of the scam.
I have considered whether Miss P should share responsibility of her loss with Metro. 
However, Im not satisfied that I can fairly make a deduction in this case. Miss P has told us 
that she hadnt used a dating website before and based on the information she was given by 
the fraudster, I dont think it was unreasonable for her to believe that the person she was 
dealing with was genuine She was provided with numerous photos which appeared to 
support his place of employment, his travel overseas, that he had a son, and that he was 
staying in hotels while abroad. Also, they had talked on the phone extensively and 
everything the fraudster told her was backed up with what appeared to be reliable evidence. 
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied that there were obvious red flags that Miss P should 
reasonably have identified or steps she shouldve taken to mitigate her losses.On that basis, Metro should refund 100% of the payments Miss P made and pay interest on 
that refund at 8% simple interest per year, calculated from the date she made the payments 
until the date of settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right Metro Bank PLC should refund Miss P in full for both payments she made 
(totalling £20,000) and pay interest on that refund at 8% simple interest per year, calculated 
from the date she made the payments until the date of settlement.
*If Metro considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss P how much its taken off. It should also give Miss P a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to reimburse 
Miss P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman