DRN-3655151
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by KBFS Financial Limited (KBFS) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In August 2017 scheme members were told that, if the Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) was approved (under pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring 
mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its liabilities in 
respect of a DB pension scheme) they would have a choice - either move into a new scheme 
(BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF.
Mr B was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so around July/August 2017 he contacted his existing financial 
adviser for advice. Because they didnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions to advise on 
DB pension transfers, they referred Mr B to KBFS.
Mr Bs existing financial adviser completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr B was 51 years 
old; he was married; he had an outstanding mortgage on his property of around £56,000; he 
had around £60,000 in savings; his wife ran an on-line shop which earned around £15,000 a 
year; she had a DB pension with 23 years service; Mr B had a cautious attitude towards 
investing; and he wanted to retire at 55 and use his tax-free cash to repay his mortgage and 
buy a property overseas  his expenditure need was £1,200 net a month.
KBFS also completed a fact-find. There are some differences  notably Nil is recorded 
against any mortgage liability and total savings amounted to around £7,500. There is no 
reference here to Mrs Bs pension details. KBFS also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced.
On 6 September 2017 KBFS advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a portfolio of investment funds, which KBFS 
deemed matched Mr Bs balanced attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the 
reasons for the recommendation were: to provide Mr B with flexibility in how much income 
he took from his pension; to provide control  Mr B didnt trust his employer and wanted to 
ensure his pension didnt end up in the PPF; and to allow Mr B to retire at 55 because of his 
concerns over his long-term health working in his industry and to enable him to work 
alongside his wife with her online shop.
Mr B duly accepted the recommendation and in November 2017 around £562,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr B complained in 2021 to KBFS about the suitability of the transfer advice using the 
services of a representative. Mr B said he doesnt believe the advice was right for his 
circumstances at the time and believes hes lost out as a result.
KBFS didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it was satisfied the pension transfer was 
suitable for Mr B. In summary it said:
Mr B understood what guarantees his existing scheme offered as well as what the 
potential new scheme and the PPF offered  but Mr B didnt want these because of 
the lack of flexible benefits.
Mr B wanted to retire early because of the length of his shifts on top of travelling.
Mr B wanted to use his tax-free cash to repay his mortgage and buy a property 
abroad  staying in the scheme meant Mr B couldnt afford to commute some of his 
pension to do this at 55.
Mr B wanted to ensure his family could inherit all residual funds in his pension upon 
his death.
Mr B wanted to take advantage of the higher transfer value.
Since transferring, Mr Bs pension has gained allowing him to realise his goals.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr B asked us to consider his complaint. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required KBFS to pay compensation. In summary they said the 
transfer wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. They said the transfer wasnt financially viable 
because of the high critical yield  they said there was limited opportunity for Mr B to 
improve on his DB scheme benefits by transferring. They said this was based on a 
retirement age of 65  but no analysis was done at age 55. Based on retirement at age 55, 
they said the critical yield was likely to be higher.
They said Mr B wanted to retire early and he already had that option available to him. They 
said while he wouldve incurred a reduction in income, they thought this was still better for 
Mr B in the long-term. They said theres nothing to indicate KBFS told Mr B what income he 
could receive from the scheme at 55. And neither did KBFS carry out any analysis to show 
how his existing provision would meet his income need from age 55 or how the proposed 
transfer would meet his income needs after taking his full tax-free cash, in a simple and clear 
format.
In addition they said, Mr B already had flexibility through his DC scheme and they thought 
KBFS couldve done more to reassure Mr B and allay his fears about the scheme and 
moving to the PPF. They said while Mr B wanted to use his tax-free cash to repay his 
mortgage and buy a property, KBFS didnt show how much he could take from either the 
new scheme or the PPF so he wasnt in an informed position. 
They highlighted the apparent errors in the suitability report, which quoted a tax-free cash 
sum that was far greater than Mr Bs pension could provide and which also referred to Mr B 
wanting to grow his buy-to-let portfolio. They concluded by saying that suitable advice ought 
to have been for Mr B to remain in the scheme and move to the PPF because he was 
looking to retire early and the benefits were more generous in these circumstances.
KBFS disagreed. In summary it said that the transfer to a personal pension met all of Mr Bs 
objectives. It said that the difficult circumstances at the time surrounding the scheme and the 
significant financial difficulty Mr Bs employer was in should not be dismissed out of hand  more weight should be placed on them. They said Mr B was anxious about the uncertainty of 
both the old and any new scheme and so wanted to take control  he wanted to be able to 
make his own decisions. They said the investigator has overlooked the real possibility that 
Mr B would not be able to transfer out in the future  the fallback of the PPF would not have 
allowed the option. They said any advice can only be based on the facts at the time, not 
what might happen and that the advice was right.
They said the critical yield of 7.67% based on the existing scheme was irrelevant because 
remaining in the scheme wasnt an option. The more realistic comparison was with the PPF, 
where the critical yield was 4.03% which was well within the discount rate of 4.4%. 
They said as Mr B wanted to retire early, there was no way of knowing what value his DC 
scheme would be. And given he wasnt sure about the security of his employment, he may 
not have been paying into this until his retirement. They added that the investigator had not 
properly considered causation, which they said was not straightforward and they asked the 
investigator what steps theyd taken to question Mr B and any evidence theyd obtained 
about his broader circumstances at the time.
Mr Bs representative agreed with the investigators conclusion to uphold the complaint. But 
it added that there were some errors noted about Mr Bs circumstances at the time  it said 
Mr B didnt have a mortgage, he didnt have any savings and his wife did not have a pension 
with 23 years service, only her state pension.
It also questioned the investigators conclusions that suitable advice was to remain in the 
scheme and move with it to the PPF  it believed suitable advice was to opt into the BSPS2. 
It said, calculating Mr Bs losses as though he would have accessed benefits from age 55 is 
basing the calculation on actions that he has in fact taken in reliance on negligent advice, 
rather than what he would have done had he been suitably advised. It said Mr B would not 
have retired early at 55 if hed been suitably advised.
Mr Bs representative also said that, in relation to the notional deduction of income tax for 
any redress paid to Mr B as a lump sum, this should only be applied to the redress once the 
part of the redress intended to compensate for the product/adviser charges has been 
disregarded, as otherwise Mr B would be undercompensated by 15% in respect of those 
charges he is now incurring.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They added that they disagreed 
theyd used hindsight to formulate their view and in addressing KBFS point about causation, 
they said theyd addressed this in their findings, but they repeated their view that, if Mr B had 
been given suitable advice to remain in the scheme, they thought Mr B wouldve moved with 
it to the PPF because of the more generous benefits for early retirement.
Because the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KBFS actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, KBFS should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability
KBFS carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Bs existing 
BSPS scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice, Mr B didnt have the option to remain 
in the BSPS. So basing the analysis on the existing scheme was somewhat redundant and 
in my view wasnt helpful to Mr B. 
I can see KBFS has acknowledged the existing scheme analysis was irrelevant for this 
reason and says the more realistic comparison was with the PPF. I think ultimately the PPF 
comparison was more relevant to Mr B in his circumstances and given he said he wanted to 
retire at 55. Ill talk more about this later on. 
But I still think, given the announcement about the RAA in August 2017 and the timing of 
KBFS interactions with Mr B, knowing Mr B wouldnt have the option to remain in the 
existing scheme and that a new scheme was under proposal, it was fair and reasonable for 
KBFS to have waited until details of the new scheme - the BSPS2 - were available so it 
could take this into account in its advice and analysis. I accept the scheme wasnt 
guaranteed to go ahead at this time, but I think this wouldve been more helpful to Mr B and 
wouldve put him in the position of being able to make an informed decision.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
 
Mr B was 51 at the time of the advice and the paperwork records that he wanted to retire at 
55. The critical yield required to match Mr Bs existing benefits at age 65 was set out in the 
TVAS report of 18 August 2017 and was 7.67% assuming he took a full pension. No critical 
yield was produced assuming Mr B took his tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
4.03% per year if Mr B took a full pension and 3.58% per year if he took a lump sum and a 
reduced pension. 
But not only as Ive said above, was the analysis based on the benefits under the existing 
scheme, which wasnt helpful to Mr B, the analysis KBFS produced was only based on a 
retirement age of 65  the schemes normal retirement age. So while KBFS says the more 
realistic comparison was with the PPF, where the critical yield was 4.03% which was well 
within the discount rate of 4.4%, this was based on the benefits available to Mr B at 65. Mr B 
indicated that he wanted to retire at 55, so KBFS analysis shouldve based on the benefits 
available to Mr B at 55  both through the BSPS2 and the PPF  so it was relevant and 
meaningful to Mr B. Afterall, this was the advice Mr B was seeking.
The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat. And while the early retirement reduction factors wouldve reduced the benefits 
available to Mr B through both the BSPS2 and the PPF, given the significantly shorter 
investment period to age 55, I think its likely that the critical yields required to match Mr Bs 
benefits through the BSPS2 and the PPF at 55 were greater than the 7.67% and 4.03% / 
3.58% respectively based on a retirement age of 65 as above.
This compares with the discount rate of 2.8% per year for three years to retirement in this 
case (age 55.) For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
assessed balanced attitude to risk (Ill talk more about this below) and also the term to 
retirement. In my view, there would be little point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.
But here, given what Ive said above, I think the lowest critical yield based on Mr B taking a 
reduced pension and cash lump sum through the PPF wouldve been in excess of 3.58%, so 
greater than the discount rate. And in my view likely closer to if not greater than the 
regulators middle projection rate. Given this, I think its clear that Mr B would, at best, be no 
better off and likely worse off at retirement as a result of investing in line with a balanced 
attitude to risk.
That said, Id add here that I have some concerns about how KBFS arrived at the conclusion 
Mr B was prepared to take a balanced risk approach. Mr Bs existing financial adviser  
recorded that Mr B was a cautious risk investor and this information was available to KBFS.  
I accept it was reasonable for KBFS to carry out its own assessment. But the questions in 
the attitude to risk questionnaire do not, in my view, readily demonstrate how the resulting 
profile was arrived at and why it was a higher risk profile than his existing advisers 
assessment. Mr B did not hold any investments at the time of the advice and I think its clear 
he had little, if any prior investment experience. Mr Bs pension accounted for all of his 
private pension provision at the time and he indicated that he only had a short period of time 
before he wanted to access his benefits. Taking all of this into account, together with his answer to what I consider was a key question asked of him at question 10 in the attitude to 
risk questionnaire: I am willing to bear some risk and chance for loss in an effort to achieve 
higher returns, but prefer a significant portion of my portfolio to be invested in cautious 
assets. I think a cautious approach to risk was more suitable here.
In any event, based on financial viability alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in 
Mr Bs best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as KBFS has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this 
below.
Flexibility, tax-free cash and income need
KBFS recommended the transfer so Mr B could have a flexible income  to enable him to 
take more from his pension at age 55 and then reduce the amount he took when his state 
pension became payable.
But Im not persuaded that Mr B had a real need for flexibility in retirement  in my view the 
reference to flexibility was simply a consequence or a feature of transferring to a personal 
pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Bs.
Mr B was 51 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork records that he wanted to 
retire at 55. I think its clear from whats recorded about Mr Bs objective  he wanted to work 
with his wife with her online shop and he had plans to use his tax-free cash  that hed given 
his retirement some thought and that he had what could reasonably be described as a plan 
for his intended retirement. I think in his circumstances he was in a position to have 
formulated a plan and that it was a real objective.
Of course Mr B already had the option of taking early retirement through his DB scheme  
he didnt have to transfer out to achieve things. Mr B couldnt take his benefits flexibly. And 
while he could commute some of his income for a cash lump sum, he had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But nothing suggests that Mr B needed to access his cash lump 
sum and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also cant see evidence that Mr B had a 
strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. KBFS recorded what Mr Bs likely 
expenditure need was and this appears to have been fixed. And just because Mr B might 
have more income than he needed once his state pension became payable, does not in my 
view demonstrate in and of itself a genuine need for flexibility.
I can see that Mr B indicated he had plans to use his tax-free cash lump sum  he wanted to 
pay-off his mortgage and purchase a property abroad. It was recorded that Mr B would need 
£160,000 to achieve this. So perhaps a transfer to a personal pension arrangement would 
enable Mr B to achieve the sum he needed? But Im not persuaded KBFS clearly 
demonstrated this was the case. 
In the suitability report it recorded that Mr B could take some of his tax-free cash to achieve 
the repayment of his mortgage, his intended property purchase as well as using some of the 
cash with his pension income to enable him to take his benefits as tax efficiently as possible. 
But KBFS didnt show how Mr B could achieve this at 55. Mr Bs transfer value was around 
£562,000, which would support a maximum cash lump sum of around £140,000. And even 
accounting for the potential for growth over the next three or four years, the fund would be 
unlikely to generate enough to support the amount Mr B said he needed. The illustration 
KBFS produced was based on a retirement age of 65. And this shows that, after the effect of 
charges and assuming the medium growth rate of 5%, Mr Bs fund could be worth around 
£619,000  so some way short of being able to achieve what KBFS said in the suitability 
report. And while later on in the suitability report reference was made to the amount of the tax-free cash sum available to Mr B, I think this was an erroneous reference to a different 
client - it said: a personal pension would give you the opportunity to take 25% tax free cash, 
you want access to this from age 55 to further grow your Buy to Let Portfolio, 25% of your 
current fund is calculated at £312,500. This bares no relation to Mr Bs circumstances or 
fund value.
Because KBFS did not carry out any analysis based on Mr Bs intended retirement age of 
55, it didnt show Mr B what tax-free cash he could take from the scheme and/or the PPF 
and so how he might have been able to meet his lump sum objectives by retaining his DB 
scheme benefits. And without this I dont think KBFS clearly demonstrated it was in Mr Bs 
best interests to transfer his pension benefits to meet his objective.
Based on KBFS analysis, at 65 through the PPF Mr B was entitled to a tax-free lump sum of 
around £130,000. So at age 55 this would be lower. But its recorded that Mr B had around 
£60,000 in savings (and its likely he could continue to add to this from his surplus income) 
and he was also contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme, which at the rate of 
contribution recorded had the potential to be worth around £26,400 not accounting for 
growth or increases in the contribution rate. So it seems Mr B had other means he could 
access flexibly to help support his capital expenditure objective. 
I can see Mr Bs representative has said Mr B didnt have an outstanding mortgage at the 
time. It also says he didnt have any savings. As I set out in the background section, there is 
a discrepancy between what KBFS fact-find recorded and Mr Bs existing adviser recorded 
against these two things. On the one hand, given the information was recorded by Mr Bs 
existing adviser it would seem unlikely it was wrong. I also think Mr B mightve challenged 
the information KBFS recorded in the suitability report if it wasnt correct - KBFS did make 
reference to an outstanding mortgage and savings here. But on the other hand, because its 
not clear when Mr Bs existing adviser recorded the information, its possible that given the 
balance KBFS recorded Mr B as having in cash / savings (£7,500) hed used the bulk of his 
savings in the meantime to repay his mortgage.
But whatever the true position, I think it seems likely Mr B could meet his objective by 
retaining his DB scheme benefits. 
Turning to Mr Bs income need  while KBFS income and expenditure analysis was not 
particularly granular or detailed, it was recorded that Mr B needed an income of £1,200 net a 
month. And based on Mr B not having any mortgage payment - his loan wouldve ended too 
- and a likely reduction in outgoings once he finished work, I think this figure appears 
reasonable.
Unfortunately, as I said earlier on, KBFS didnt produce analysis showing what income Mr B 
could expect from the BSPS2 or the PPF at 55 both on a full or reduced pension basis. 
KBFS has provided a one-page document, which shows under the existing scheme at 55 
Mr B would be entitled to a full pension of around £19,100. Given the reduced revaluation 
factors, under the BSPS2 this figure would be lower, but in my view still close to it. Based on 
taking a cash lump sum and a reduced pension it would be lower, but through the PPF its 
likely it wouldve been slightly higher than the BSPS2 due to the more favourable very early 
retirement reduction factors.
So given Mr Bs recorded income need was £1,200 net a month, I think his objective could 
be met by remaining in the DB scheme. Mr Bs income need appears to have been a 
household need, so given his wifes income from her online business was recorded as being 
£15,000 a year, it appears this together with Mr Bs DB pension income would be more than 
sufficient for their needs. Im mindful too that, because Mr B intended to work with his wife 
when he retired, this might have offered the potential for growth from the shop and so increased income. I think KBFS ought to have explored this possibility. Furthermore it was 
recorded that Mrs B intended to retire at the time same time as Mr B and she had a pension 
with 23 years service. I think this too wouldve been available to supplement their household 
income. Mr B and his wife would also receive their state pensions later on. 
I can see Mr Bs representative has said Mr Bs wife didnt have a pension as recorded  she 
was only entitled to her state pension. But again, it strikes me as odd that Mr Bs existing 
adviser made a mistake or that Mr B hadnt challenged or corrected this sooner. But in any 
event, Im not persuaded this makes a difference  I still think Mr B had a better chance of 
meeting his needs by retaining his DB scheme benefits and Im not persuaded it was in 
Mr Bs best interests to transfer out to achieve flexibility that Im not persuaded he really 
needed.
Death benefits
While not a primary reason for recommending the transfer, the suitability report refers to the 
improved lump sum death benefits available through a personal pension arrangement.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. And Im not 
persuaded KBFS explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr Bs 
wife might have had her own private pension provision, but I still think the 50% spouses 
pension wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr B predeceased her. I dont think KBFS 
made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. So if Mr B lived a long life and/or investment returns were poor, there 
might not be much if anything left to leave to his wife anyway. In any event, KBFS should not 
have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Mr B already had lump sum death benefits available  he had death-in-service benefit, which 
would pay out prior to his retirement and he also had his DC scheme he could pass on to his 
family  albeit not likely to be a significant amount.But if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think KBFS 
shouldve instead explored additional life insurance. I appreciate KBFS has referred to a 
quote for a whole of life policy with a sum assured of £731,000 - this appears to be based on 
the monetary or capital value of the schemes spouses benefits produced in the TVAS 
report (the lowest quote was around £690 a month.) I assume this was discounted on cost.
But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr B. Ultimately, 
Mr B wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr B how much he would ideally like to leave to his wife 
after taking into account existing benefits and means, and this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be more affordable to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
I understand that Mr B, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made an announcement about it plans and Mr B was 
likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were also lots of negative things 
circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr B was leaning towards the decision 
to transfer because of the concerns he had.
 
But it was KBFS obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests. Im not persuaded KBFS did that. As I explained earlier on, I think given 
the timing of Mr Bs request for advice, KBFS shouldve waited until details of the BPS2 were 
made available and properly taken the benefits available to Mr B through the BSPS2 into 
account in giving its advice. I think this wouldve alleviated some of Mr Bs broader concerns 
about the scheme as a whole moving to the PPF and him ending up there by default.
But I think that KBFS shouldve done more to reassure Mr B that the scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or had been led to believe given Mr Bs specific 
case and circumstances. Importantly, Mr B still had the option of taking early retirement at 
age 55 through the PPF. And while Mr B wouldve faced a reduction in benefits, there was a 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement (age 55 for example) and the tax-free 
cash available to Mr B was also likely more favourable than the BSPS2 at this age. I think 
the income Mr B would receive through the PPF at age 55 wouldve likely been sufficient to 
meet his needs when taking account of the other household income Mr B and his wife could 
likely generate, and crucially I dont think he was likely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. While the annual indexation in payment was lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr B might not have been able to 
later transfer out of the PPF  but given what I said earlier on, I dont think there was an 
apparent need for him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Bs concerns about the scheme was a compelling reason to 
recommend a transfer out of the BSPS altogether.Suitability of investments
Because Im not persuaded Mr B was a balanced risk investor, I think the recommended 
investment funds were not suitable. But as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr B, it follows that I dont need to consider 
the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr B should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I accept that Mr B was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But KBFS wasnt there to just transact what Mr B 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme for flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed,  and the potential for higher 
death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension arrangement.
So, I think in the circumstances and if things had happened as they should have, KBFS 
ought to have advised Mr B not to transfer out but to remain with the scheme and move with 
it to the PPF.
Because I think Mr B had an early retirement plan and he was intent on retiring at 55, while 
he wouldve faced a reduction in benefits by the scheme entering the PPF, I think that it 
would've been in his best interests to accept this reduction in benefits as it would be offset 
by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against KBFS 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against KBFS advice if things had happened as they should 
have and theyd recommended he not transfer out. I say this because, while as Ive already 
said, Mr B was likely motivated to transfer when he approached KBFS given the broader 
circumstances at the time, on balance, I still think Mr B wouldve listened to and followed the 
advice. I say this because Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr B was an experienced investor 
who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice he was 
given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Bs pension accounted for all of his private 
retirement provision at the time and in my view, his attitude to risk was low or cautious. So, if 
KBFS had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about his employer, the scheme or the PPF were so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if KBFS had explained that Mr B could likely meet his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr B 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if KBFS had given suitable advice that he 
not do so and that he should remain with the scheme and move with it to the PPF.
In light of the above, I think KBFS should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see Mr Bs representative has argued that Mr B would not have retired early at 55 if 
hed been suitably advised. It says Mr B shouldve been advised to continue working and so 
suitable advice was to opt into the BSPS2. It says, calculating Mr Bs losses as though he 
would have accessed benefits from age 55 is basing the calculation on actions that he has in 
fact taken in reliance on negligent advice, rather than what he would have done had he been 
suitably advised.
But for the reasons Ive detailed above, I think Mr B had a clear intention to retire at 55 and 
so suitable advice shouldve been for him to remain with the existing scheme and move with 
it to the PPF. For this reason, and because Mr B did in fact retire at 55 and start to take his 
benefits, I think it is fair to base the redress, which I will detail below, on Mr B accessing 
benefits at age 55 and that the comparator should be the benefits available to Mr B through 
the PPF.
I've thought about Mr B's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr B would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr B 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr B for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr B. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
KBFS  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr B. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr Bs retirement provision is of greater importance to him given its significance in his overall 
retirement income provision and because he has now retired and is taking his benefits, I 
think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £200 is fair 
in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF if 
suitable advice had been given. 
KBFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. KBFS should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr B retired in July 2022 at age 55 and started taking his pension benefits. So, 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of 
Mr Bs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, KBFS should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts KBFS offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, KBFS may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
KBFS should also pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice 
has caused. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require KBFS Financial Limited 
to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
KBFS Financial Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on KBFS Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman