DRN-2626522
The complaint
Mrs G complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) passing her 
personal information to a firm of solicitors in the course of a car insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs G was involved in a road traffic accident in late June 2019. She submitted a claim to LV, 
with whom she had a motor insurance policy. LV wrote to Mrs G in late June 2019 and 
informed her that her file had been passed to LVs solicitors, Company A, to help it recover 
costs from the other driver, who it felt was at fault. Company A then outsourced the claim to 
another firm of solicitors  Company B. 
Company B contacted Mrs G by phone on 5 November 2019. Mrs G wasnt expecting a call 
from Company B and was surprised that it knew her personal details, as she thought the 
claim was being dealt with by LV. 
Mrs G phoned LV on the same day to query why Company B contacted her. It seems LV 
was unaware the claim had been outsourced to Company B and told Mrs G the call was 
probably a scam. However, Mrs G told LV that she knew of Company B in a professional 
capacity. She said she asked LV to find out why her details were sent to Company B and 
what details it held. Mrs G later received another phone call from Company B and was told it 
had closed the file in relation to her claim. 
LV sent an email to Mrs G on 8 November 2019 and confirmed it made an error by 
incorrectly instructing Company A in relation to Mrs Gs claim. It said claims originating in the 
area where Mrs G lives should have been sent to a different firm of solicitors  Company C. 
It said Company A outsourced the claim to Company B because it didnt deal with claims 
relating to the area where Mrs G lived. LV apologised for the confusion. 
Mrs G complained to LV in February 2020. She said she had not heard from LV after 
speaking to it in November 2019 about her details being passed to Company B. She asked 
to know what personal information had been passed to Company B and wanted confirmation 
that the information had been destroyed. 
LV responded on 16 April 2020. It said when managing claims, it will pass details to 
suppliers such as garages, hire car companies and solicitors, all of whom can help with the 
claim. It said it will always let consumers know in advance which suppliers will be in contact. 
It said it didnt know how Company B got Mrs Gs contact details and said the calls she was 
receiving from Company B were vishing  potential scam - calls.  
LV then emailed Mrs G again in June 2020. It acknowledged the miscommunication 
regarding the solicitors involved with her claim. It reiterated what it said in the email from 
November 2019. 
Mrs G remained unhappy and so complained to this service in July 2020. She said she did 
not want her personal information to be shared with Company B, given her contact with it on 
a professional level. She said LV didnt let her know in advance who her details were being 
sent to, as it said it usually would. Mrs G asked to know what information had been sent to 
all third parties and asked for it to be destroyed, if it wasnt needed by them. 
 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Gs complaint. She said that the conflicting information provided 
by LV, namely that it thought the call to Mrs G from Company B was a vishing call when this 
wasnt the case, didnt help an already stressful situation. Our investigator asked LV to pay 
compensation of £100 to Mrs G. Our investigator also let Mrs G know that LV had emailed 
Company A and Company B and asked them to delete all files in relation to Mrs G. 
Mrs G largely agreed with what our investigator said but felt the amount of compensation 
offered was too low. So this has come to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
I want to first of all clarify that I am only looking at the actions of LV here, and whether it 
made any errors in relation to how it handled Mrs Gs complaint about the contact she had 
with Company B. I am not looking at the actions of any of the firms of solicitors involved. 
Theres no doubt that confusion was caused here by LV instructing the wrong firm of 
solicitors and the claim then being outsourced. It seems LV instructs solicitors based on the 
geographical location of the consumer. But its important to note here that LV did nothing 
wrong in instructing solicitors to deal with this claim. It was always going to be the case that 
it would be passed to solicitors, whoever they might be. And although I make no findings 
about this, because as Ive already said I can only look at LVs actions here, it seems likely 
that outsourcing between firms of solicitors is part and parcel of the claims process. 
So what has gone wrong here is that when Mrs G called LV on 5 November 2019 to query 
why she had received a phone call from Company B, LV told her it was most likely a vishing 
call, when that wasnt the case. I think at this stage Mrs G knew it wasnt a vishing call, given 
that she knew Company B in a professional capacity and so knew they were a legitimate firm 
of solicitors. However, she was understandably keen to know why Company B had her 
personal information and LV should have been able to explain that to her at this stage, but it 
didnt. And I agree that this is likely to have caused Mrs G some distress. 
Having said that, I can see that LV sent an email to Mrs G within three days of her call to it. 
It clarified the situation and let Mrs G know why Company B contacted her. I can also see 
that Mrs G said she didnt receive this email, which is why she contacted LV again in 
February 2020, as she hadnt heard from them. But Im satisfied, based on the information 
provided by LV, that the email was sent to Mrs G on 8 November 2020. While I appreciate 
Mrs G said she didnt receive the email, I think LV did what it could back in November 2019 
to clarify its error. 
LV said that it is its usual practice to inform consumers of the various individuals or firms that 
might be involved in dealing with their claim. So LV made an error when it didnt inform Mrs 
G that shed be contacted by Company B. Its important to note here that this service doesnt 
penalise businesses for errors made  we look at the impact an error has had on an 
individual and will ask the business involved to compensate if we think thats appropriate. 
LV caused some confusion when it told Mrs G that Company Bs phone call was most likely 
a scam. It also didnt let Mrs G know in advance which firm of solicitors it had instructed and so she was surprised to be called by Company B. So, I think LV should compensate Mrs G 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to her and I agree that the amount of £100 
suggested by our investigator is fair, in the circumstances. 
At this stage, Mrs G wants confirmation that any personal information that Company A and 
Company B were provided with by LV is destroyed. I can see that LV made contact with both 
firms and asked them to do this. And, to my mind, thats all LV can do. It cant take any 
further action to compel either firm to delete information in its possession. And neither can 
this service, as its outside our remit. If Mrs G continues to have concerns about whether 
Company B has fully complied with her request to delete her information, then she will need 
to take this matter up with the Information Commissioners Office, as they are responsible for 
data privacy for individuals.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited should pay Mrs G £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman