DRN-2771335
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Using information from Mutuals records supplied to us here is a brief loan table to show the 
approved loans for Mrs F.
Loan Capital Date taken Date repaid Weekly 
instalmentsWeekly repayment 
(combined sum)
1 £500 07/11/2015 19/10/2016 51 £13.72
2 £500 15/10/2016 06/09/2017 51 £13.72
3 £300 17/06/2017 17/07/2019 102 £4.55 (£18.27)
4 £1,000 02/09/2017 outstanding 102 £15.19 (£19.74)
5 £300 13/07/2019 outstanding 102 £4.55. (£19.74)
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things
right for Mrs F for loans 3 to 5. He thought that the pattern of lending was unsustainable from
loan 3. Mutual disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 April 2021 and invited both parties to respond by 7 May 2021. 
We have not heard from Mutual. Mrs F has responded to say that she thinks it is loan 3 
where she was mistreated and explains some personal elements about her life at the time 
which I have not duplicated here. Mrs F explains that loan 3 was refinanced into loan 4 and 
she indicates that the agent persuaded her to do this. Then repayments on loan 4 became a 
problem. She is still repaying loans 4 and 5 at £20 a week. I address this in the main part of 
the decision.
The provisional decision findings are set out below in italics.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our general
approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail
about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutuals original response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points 
and issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published
documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the
provision of graphs to compare its repayments with high cost short term credit lenders.
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions.
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Mrs Fs circumstances or complaint I have
referred to them where necessary.
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything
else in making my decision.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time,
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
My provisional decision findings 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mrs F, with a view to seeing if there 
was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. Given the circumstances of Mrs Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. 
I explain why I think this in the following paragraphs.
One part of Mutuals submissions about which I disagree is that it has said that there were
gaps between the lending with Mrs F and that is simply not the case. And despite itssubmission it has produced a chart which clearly demonstrates that many of the five loans
overlapped showing a continuous period of lending from November 2015 to late 2019 and
the last two loans remain outstanding and so Mrs F remains indebted.
I have little evidence from Mutual about exactly what it did know about Mrs Fs financial
situation when approving the loans. Its final response letter to her describes a number of
application checks it did or would have done. And the agreements include Mrs Fs declared
income and outgoings together with her partners income as well.
Mutual refers to carrying out credit reports but no details have been provided for us to see
and in its FRL to Mrs Fs representative, it has said that it relied on an August 2017 credit
report for the loan applied for in July 2019  almost two years later. In that same FRL,
Mutual has accepted that it knew Mrs F was in arrears with some other credit commitments.
So, although I have not been given the credit search results it does seem likely that Mrs F
had other debts and Mutual knew of them.
Mutual says that it relied on her repayment record to assist it in carrying out the credit
worthiness assessment but no records have been sent to me and so I have no evidence of
what they showed. So, I discount this submission.
It does appear that Mrs F has told her representative that proof of earnings were checked for
the first loan. But Ive not seen any examples or copies and so Mutual has time to send
these additional documents to me together with credit search results too in the provisional
decision deadline.
By the time Mrs F applied for Loan 4 she had been in debt to Mutual for almost two years.
The overlapping nature of some of the loans meant that her weekly repayment sums had
increased. Loan 4 was for a larger sum (£1,000) and by the loan 4 approval she had only
paid off loan 1, so she had two other loans outstanding. And Mrs F was returning for
additional debt relatively soon after receiving loan 3 and for over three times the amount of
loan 3.
The proximity in dates between receiving the loan 4 capital and paying off loan 2 suggests
that its likely she used the money from loan 4 to assist her with repaying of loan 2, or
certainly to plug that gap inevitably left after repaying loan 2. Borrowing to repay debt is a
clear indication of unsustainability.
I think that Mrs F lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan four
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Fs indebtedness by allowing her
to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Mrs F borrowed was likely to have had negative
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Ill go on to set out what
Mutual should do to put things right.
Having reviewed what Mrs F has said, and as I am upholding loans 4 and 5, then I am not 
persuaded to uphold loan 3 as well. Mutual has sent me nothing in addition to the substantial 
submissions received by it before my provisional decision. And so I repeat here my 
provisional findings and come to the same conclusions for the same reasons. 
Kerrigan v Elevate Credit international Ltd
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a loweramount than this to Mrs F, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair.
But the court in this judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit
rather than home collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different
products with different considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its
products from those of short term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges
conclusions about a differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint. As nothing has 
been received since issuing my provisional decision then my view remains the same.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs F from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For
example, having been declined this lending Mrs F may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs F in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mrs F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs F loans 4 and 5. If it has sold the outstanding debts Mutual
should buy these back if its are able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mutual is
not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the
results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs F towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including
anything Mutual has already refunded; and
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs F
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made thepayments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs F as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.
If this results in Mrs F having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mrs F.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an
affordable repayment plan with her.
Mutual shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already
written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mrs Fs borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Mrs F s 
credit file.
Mutual do not have to remove loans 4 and 5 from Mrs Fs credit file until these have been
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HMRC requires Mutual to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs F asks Mutual for a certificate
showing how much tax its taken off, Mutual should provide this.
If Mutual intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mrs F owes, it must do this after tax.
Mutual cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part, and direct that Mutual Clothing 
and Supply Company Limited does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman