DRN-3132399
The complaint
Mr C believes Moneybarn No.1 Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan hed applied 
for. He also believes they treated him unfairly by not offering him a payment deferral.
What happened
On 8 August 2017, Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. The 
agreement was for £10,900; with 59 monthly repayments of £347.21. 
Mr C has complained that Moneybarn didnt act responsibly when approving the finance, 
because it wasnt affordable at the time. Hes also said that, in March 2020, he was 
struggling financially after his father passed away and he had increased expenses, such as 
funeral costs, to pay. And he doesnt think that Moneybarn acted fairly by refusing his 
request for a payment deferral.
Mr C complained to Moneybarn. But they didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly when they 
approved the finance. And, because Mr C was substantially in arrears at the time, they also 
thought theyd acted reasonably by refusing the request for a payment deferral. So, Mr C 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Moneybarn hadnt been able to evidence all the checks they did at 
the time they approved the finance. But they did validate Mr Cs income and the monthly 
repayments were around 22% of this income, which didnt breach Moneybarns internal 
lending criteria. Mr C was unable to provide any information of his financial situation at the 
time of the application. And, given this, the investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to 
say that Moneybarn had acted unreasonably by approving the finance.
The investigator also said that, at the time Mr C asked for a payment deferral, he was more 
than £3,400 in arrears. While the investigator appreciated that Mr Cs finances were further 
strained by his fathers unfortunate death, and by the Covid-19 pandemic; he said that a 
payment deferral may not have been in Mr Cs best interests  it wouldve increased the 
required monthly repayment and put Mr C in a worse financial situation. So, he didnt think 
that Moneybarn had acted unreasonably by not agreeing to this.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that he was suffering from mental health issues and wasnt in a 
position to be chasing documents from years ago. He didnt think it was fair to give 
Moneybarn the benefit of the doubt in a situation like this feels the investigator took there 
{sic} side. So, Mr C asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Affordability
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr C would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Moneybarn didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Cs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Moneybarn said they carried out credit check when they assessed Mr Cs application. And, 
while they havent been able to provide us with a copy of the check itself, they have provided 
the credit reference agencys reference number for this search.
Unfortunately, were unable to obtain a copy of the search from the credit reference agency, 
even with the reference number. But Ive no doubt that Moneybarn wouldve carried out this 
check, as to lend to any customer without doing even this basic check wouldve been 
extremely risky.
Moneybarn have also said C provided them with bank statements for July and August 2017, 
which they assessed as part of their checking procedures. While Moneybarn havent been 
able to provide copies of these bank statements, Mr C hasnt disputed that he provided them 
at the time.
Moneybarn have said Mr Cs income, as shown by the bank statements, was £1,574.40 a 
month. And, when assessing the credit search and the bank statements, they considered the 
monthly payments of £347.21 to be affordable.
Because Moneybarn havent been able to provide evidence of the checks they carried out at 
the time, Im unable to say if those checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
For me to assess what any reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown, I need to 
see some evidence of Mr Cs financial situation at the time of his application. And this 
information can only be provided by Mr C  Im unable to obtain a credit check of copies of 
his bank statements from the credit reference agencies or his bank.Ive seen that Mr C has been asked for this evidence. And while, in his comments on the 
investigators view, he said he wasnt able to provide this information due to his mental 
health issues; in an email dated 29 October 2021, he said that he was now able to send in 
an up to date copy of his credit file, and copies of his bank statements from the time of his 
application. However, he hasnt done so.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an 
alternative to the courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We 
dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and 
weigh up all the information were given. But, where there is a lack of specific evidence, as is 
the case here, I need to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
Moneybarn have been able to provide some information to show they checked Mr Cs 
income and affordability when assessing his application. And Mr C hasnt disputed that he 
provided some information to them. Moneybarn have also provided the figures they used to 
show Mr C could afford the agreement, and these figures show that to be the case.
So, for the reasons stated above, I havent seen anything that shows me that Moneybarn 
acted irresponsibly when approving the finance agreement.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to show me that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way when they approved the agreement Mr C applied for. So, I wont be asking 
Moneybarn to unwind the agreement and refund any interest or charges to Mr C.
Payment deferral
Mr C has explained how his finances were affected in early 2020, due to the death of his 
father. Hes also explained that he worked in retail, so his income was affected by the 
national lockdowns - he says he didnt work from March to November 2020. Because of this, 
he thinks Moneybarn acted unfairly by refusing his request for a payment deferral.
On 27 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to financial 
businesses about how they should deal with requests like that from Mr C This guidance says 
a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a payment deferral for 3 months 
unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers 
interest to do so.  
Mr Cs agreement first went into arrears in January 2018. And, between April 2018 and 
February 2020 he agreed eight separate payment plans with Moneybarn. From what Ive 
seen, each of these failed because Mr C didnt keep up with the repayments. And his arrears 
increased from £821.53 in April 2018 to £3,436.99 in March 2020. So, Im satisfied that Mr 
Cs financial difficulties werent because of either the Covid-19 pandemic, or the financial 
pressures resulting from his fathers death.
If Moneybarn had agreed a payment deferral, then this wouldve resulted in the deferred 
payments being split across the remaining term. And Mr Cs required payment increasing. 
As he was in long-term arrears, caused by long-term financial difficulties, Im in agreement 
with Moneybarn that it was not in Mr Cs interests for a payment deferral to be granted. So, I 
dont think they did anything wrong by refusing his request.
However, the FCAs rules also say that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.Ive seen that Mr C made Moneybarn aware of his medical condition in August 2019. And, 
because of this, Moneybarn didnt terminate his agreement in 2019 or 2020, despite issuing 
both default and termination notices. Whats more, they continued to work with Mr C to agree 
payment plans to help him clear his arrears, based on the income and expenditure 
statements he completed. 
Given this, Im satisfied that Moneybarn acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr 
Cs arrears. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman