DRN-4071546
The complaint
Mr I complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax inconvenienced him when trying to 
send a payment to another bank.
What happened
Mr I wanted to send a payment to another of his accounts at a different bank. Mr I had to try 
several times to access online banking, but was eventually able to make the payment.
But the payment didnt leave Mr Is account, so he called Halifax. Mr I spoke to a person and 
they transferred him to the fraud team. The person in the fraud team confirmed the payment 
had been made, but could take two hours to go through.
Mr I asked to log a complaint, and spoke to a third person. This person confirmed Halifax 
had experienced a problem with its online banking, and payments were being delayed and 
logging in was taking longer than it should.
Halifax said the other staff members could probably have told him this, and initially offered 
£30 compensation, before increasing this to £40. Unhappy with this offer, Mr I asked to 
escalate the complaint.
Mr Is payment left Halifax and was received by his other bank.
A complaint manager spoke to Mr I and explained the issues with online banking on the day 
and apologised for these. The complaint manager also said he was upholding Mr Is 
complaint, and felt the £40 previously offered was fair. Mr I didnt accept this offer.
Mr I asked to speak to the complaint managers manager, but was told he couldnt. The 
complaint manager explained they were authorised to issue a final response and Mr I could 
refer his complaint to this service if he still wasnt happy.
Mr I brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Is complaint should be upheld. The investigator said Halifax had 
made a mistake, but the £40 it had offered was enough to compensate for this.
Mr I didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Halifax made an error here. Halifaxs online banking wasnt working for 
some time on the day Mr I tried to make the transfer. And when Mr I did make the transfer, it 
prompted a message to say the payment could take two hours.
Mr I was told, by the fraud department, the payment had gone out and it could take two 
hours for it to credit his other bank. Mr I was then told, by the first complaint handler, there 
were issues with online banking.
I think Halifax should probably have told Mr I sooner there were issues with online banking, 
and it accepts this too. Mr I spoke to two Halifax staff, neither of whom told him about the 
issues, and Mr I had to make a second call to complain.
Mr I is unhappy he was transferred to the fraud department, when it couldnt answer his 
questions. Ive listened to the calls Mr I had with Halifax, and I think the fraud department did 
answer his immediate issue, it confirmed the payment had gone through.
The fraud department explained payments could take two hours. The underlying legislation 
covering faster payments, the Payment Services Regulations, says payments must be 
credited by the end of the following business day.
When Mr I spoke to the first complaint handler, they explained the issues with online 
banking, that it was a temporary failing and offered £40 compensation. When Mr I spoke to 
the complaint manager, they repeated this and felt the previous £40 offer was fair.
Mr I has said the complaint manager was condescending, but I dont agree. I think the 
complaint manager was robust in their explanation of the outcome theyd reached. But I 
dont think they werent rude or spoke down to Mr I.
Mr I didnt feel the complaints manager grasped his concerns, and asked to speak to their 
manager. I dont think the complaint manager did anything wrong by saying they couldnt 
connect Mr I to their manager.
Once Halifax has issued a final response the choices for consumers are to accept the 
outcome or bring their complaint to this service. Mr I wasnt happy with the outcome of his 
complaint, so the next step was to come to this service.
I think the complaint manager was very clear on what Mr Is next steps were.
I think Mr I was caused some inconvenience by Halifaxs online banking issues. Mr I had to 
make a couple of calls, to check whether the payment had been successful and had to wait 
for a payment to go out thats usually immediate.
Mr I said on his first complaint call hed spent around an hour trying to sort things out, log 
onto his online banking and getting confirmation the payment had been sent.
Halifax paid Mr I £40 to compensate him for the inconvenience, and considering all the 
circumstances of Mr Is complaint I think this is a fair amount to pay. I wont be asking Halifax 
to increase the payment to Mr I.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 Chris Russ
Ombudsman