DRN-2126013
The complaint
Mr M complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) after they sent a large
amount of personal information to the incorrect address.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr Ms personal accounts were closed due to outstanding debt. These debts
were passed to a third party to manage and Mr Ms access to online banking was withdrawn.
Because of this, Mr M asked RBS to send him every statement that had been produced
since his accounts were set up in the early 1990s.
RBS sent these statements to the last known address they had on their system in July 2019.
But Mr M didnt receive these and he contacted RBS again to ask where the statements
were. After investigating this matter, RBS realised theyd sent the statements to the incorrect
address. They explained this was because the third-party managing Mr Ms debts had traced
a new address and supplied this to RBS, which had updated their system automatically. Mr
M was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
He was unhappy that he hadnt received his statements. But, more importantly, he was
unhappy that his personal information had been sent to another address which had left him
open to identity theft. He was also unhappy a new address had been registered against his
credit file. So, he wanted RBS to compensate him the inconvenience this caused.
RBS didnt uphold his complaint. They thought the third party had supplied the incorrect
address which had update their system and they didnt think they were at fault for this. But
they agreed there had been a data breach and recorded it as such. They also agreed to
amend Mr Ms credit file and resend the statements to the correct address. Mr M wasnt
happy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
When referring his complaint to us, he made us aware that hed now been the victim of
identity theft which had resulted in a CIFAS marker being made against him and all his
accounts being closed. So, he was now unable to take out another account and this had left
him in financial difficulty.
Our investigator considered this information, and the evidence available, and didnt uphold
Mr Ms complaint. He thought RBS were responsible for the actions of the third party and so
were responsible for the error in sending the statements to the wrong address. But he
explained Mr M hadnt provided evidence to support his claim that hed been financially
impacted or that hed been the victim of identity fraud. So, without this evidence, our
investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask RBS to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with this view. He didnt think it was fair or reasonable for him to gather the
evidence our investigator asked for to show hed been financially impacted. He maintained
that RBS had done something wrong and so should offer him compensation as a result.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 July 2020, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Ms
complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ms statements were sent to the incorrect address. So, it isnt in
dispute that an error has been made. RBS outlined in their response that they didnt think
they were responsible for this. But they appointed the third party to manage Mr Ms debts.
So, this third party were working on RBSs behalf. And the statements were sent from RBSs
internal systems. I think RBS have a responsibility to ensure the personal information they
have for their customers is correct, especially when sensitive information such as bank
statements are being sent. They didnt do so on this occasion, so I dont think theyve acted
reasonably.
As I dont think RBS have acted reasonably, Ive then considered what actions I think they
should take to recognise this.
Im aware Mr M believes the information RBS sent to the wrong address has led to him
being a victim of identity fraud. Hes explained this has impacted him financially and has left
him unable to take out a new account. But Mr M hasnt provided evidence to support this,
despite previous requests. Without this evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct RBS to
cover these financial losses as I have no way of knowing how much they are worth. And it
wouldnt be fair for RBS to compensate Mr M for more than the losses hes incurred. So, Im
unable to consider these as part of the remedy.
But I do think RBSs error has caused Mr M trouble and upset. Ive no doubt realising a large
amount of personal information has been sent to the wrong address would be worrying and
stressful. From the correspondence Ive seen, it seems as though Mr M has spoken to the
individual who received the information as he explained they were considering making the
press aware of the situation. I think Mr M having to contact the individual wouldve been time
consuming. Mr M has also explained hes concerned that individual may have passed his
statements to another third party and I can appreciate how worrying that would be.
So, I think RBS should compensate Mr M for this. After considering the inconvenience Mr M
has experienced, I think RBS should pay him £100 to recognise the impact their error has
caused.
I understand Mr M was looking for substantially more than this. But as Ive explained, without
evidence to substantiate his claims regarding financial losses and identity theft, I think thislevel of compensation is a fair one.
Responses
Mr M didnt accept the decision. He didnt think the £100 was enough to cover the cost of the 
petrol he used when driving to the branch to try and sort the issue. He also didnt think it was 
enough to acknowledge the stress and inconvenience hes suffered as he maintained his 
bank accounts had been closed, leading to missed payments and other financial 
implications. RBS provided no further comments.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reasons to change my conclusions. I understand Mr M is unhappy 
with the £100 payment I recommended as he doesnt feel this takes into consideration the 
financial losses hes incurred. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im unable to 
consider these without the evidence to support them. So, without evidence to show his bank 
accounts have closed and payments have been missed, I cant consider this as part of any 
compensation I award. This means Im also unable to consider the petrol costs, as I have no 
receipts to see the petrol Mr M bought and that this was used solely for trips to his local RBS 
branch.
And I understand Mr M doesnt think £100 is enough to recognise the stress and 
inconvenience hes been caused. But I think this is a fair offer that reflects the worry hed 
have been caused when realising his personal information had been sent to the wrong 
person. It also reflects the fact Mr M was able to get in touch with the person who received 
them, which I think negated some of this stress, but takes into account the effort and time it 
took Mr M to do so. So, I think RBS should continue to pay Mr M £100 in recognition of the 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr M £100 to recognise the stress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman