DRN-4009112
The complaint
Mr I is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has 
asked him to repay his Bounce Back Loan, even though his business hasnt recovered 
following the coronavirus pandemic.
What happened
Mr I borrowed £5,000 from NatWest under the government-backed Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme in May 2020. He later borrowed an additional £1,250 by way of a top-up loan. 
Under the terms of the Bounce Back Loan agreement, Mr I didnt have to make any 
repayments during the first 12 months. 
Prior to the first repayment falling due in June 2021, Mr I successfully applied to NatWest for 
a six-month repayment holiday available through the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) flexible 
repayment options. This meant that no repayments would be due until December 2021. Mr I 
also extended the term of the loan, from six years to ten, to lower the monthly repayment 
that would be required.
Mr I says he couldnt afford the repayments when the time came to begin making them, as 
his business hadnt yet recovered following the pandemic. He raised a complaint, as he 
didnt think it was fair for NatWest to be holding him to these amounts until his business 
recovered to its pre-pandemic state. He also said the bank had ignored his requests for help. 
NatWest apologised that it hadnt responded to the emails that Mr I had sent, and offered 
£100 for the stress caused by its poor service. The bank offered to discuss other PAYG 
options with Mr I, but he declined this request. It also said that its financial health team would 
be in contact to discuss other support that might be available.
Mr I still didnt think NatWest was treating him fairly, so one of our investigators reviewed the 
complaint. She didnt think that NatWest was doing anything wrong in expecting Mr I to 
repay the loan in line with the terms of the agreement, which wasnt dependent on how his 
business was performing. And she thought the bank had taken reasonable steps to assist 
Mr I, noting that its specialist team had attempted to reach him on a number of occasions to 
discuss the matter without success. While there had been some instances of poor service 
along the way, she thought the £100 that NatWest had already offered was fair 
compensation for any upset and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr I didnt accept our investigators view. He said NatWest hadnt tried to contact him, and 
felt that the unanswered correspondence hed sent to the bank had been overlooked. To 
move matters forward, he wanted the bank to provide him with a named point of contact at 
the bank  rather than require him to deal with a call centre or wait in a queue.  
NatWest agreed to reach out again to Mr I in an effort to resolve the issue, but it didnt 
manage to speak to him. Mr I said the bank didnt call at the time it had agreed.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Is position to be that it isnt fair for NatWest to expect him to repay the loan, 
as his business hasnt recovered from the effects of the pandemic. Im sorry to read of the 
difficulties that he and his business have experienced. But I dont think that this, in and of 
itself, is grounds for NatWest to simply write off the loan as Mr I is seeking. Hes had the use 
of the money that NatWest lent him, and I think  as a starting point  it is reasonable for 
NatWest to expect him to repay it, in line with the terms of the agreement he signed.
I would, however, expect the bank to provide Mr I with appropriate forbearance and support 
on becoming aware of the difficulties hes experiencing.
In the first instance, such support is available through the PAYG options available under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Mr I has made use of some  but not all  of these, by 
obtaining a six-month repayment holiday and a term extension that lowered the repayments 
hed need to make.
Unfortunately, I understand from what Mr I has told us that his circumstances hadnt 
improved to the extent that he could afford the loan repayments when they became due in 
December 2021. He says that he made a number of attempts to contact NatWest about this, 
which went unanswered. Ive not seen evidence of this, but the bank has accepted what he 
said and I see no reason to do otherwise. It is regrettable that NatWest didnt respond to his 
correspondence.
That said, once the issue was escalated by way of complaint in January 2022, NatWest did 
reach out to Mr I. The bank offered to discuss other PAYG options with him, which he 
declined. And its specialist business team attempted to contact him to discuss the matter 
and other support that may be available, but was unable to reach him. Mr I disputes this 
contact was made, but the banks records show a number of attempts by phone and text 
message in addition to letters sent in the post. 
Following our investigators view, NatWest has also made further attempts to discuss the 
matter with Mr I without success. While I appreciate one call was made 30 minutes later than 
it had been scheduled, in the round I think the bank has made reasonable attempts to move 
matters forward. There is also some onus on Mr I to engage with NatWest about the matter, 
and he has been told the number that he needs to call in order to do so. While I can 
understand his preference for a direct point of contact, this isnt something that the bank is 
obliged to provide.
I understand Mr Is concern at the prospect of being asked to make repayments to the loan 
that he cant afford. But the bank may be able to work with him to arrange a mutually-
acceptable payment arrangement. It cant, however, assess this  or consider what other 
support it might be able to offer  unless and until it speaks to Mr I to gather information 
about his circumstances. Without that, I dont think there is any further action I can 
reasonably expect NatWest to have taken. I also note that there remains a further PAYG 
option open to Mr I, which would reduce his monthly payment temporarily, but that he has 
opted against taking it up.It is, therefore, only a matter of compensating Mr I for the impact of NatWests error in failing 
to respond to his correspondence. I cant see that things wouldve turned out any differently 
even if this had been picked up at the time  given that the bank wouldve needed to speak 
to Mr I in order to move matters forward one way or another, and as the evidence suggests 
that it wouldnt have been able to reach him had it attempted to do so. I do appreciate that 
the absence of a response from NatWest wouldve been frustrating for Mr I, but I think the 
£100 that it has already offered to pay him is fair compensation for this.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay £100 to Mr I.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman