DRN-3404217
The complaint
Mr M complains about a Self-Administered Personal Pension (SIPP) he holds with Embark 
Investment Services Ltd (EISL). He says he thinks money has gone missing from the SIPP, 
and this is down to EISL taking fees from the cash part of the SIPP. He is also not sure that 
EISL has paid him everything out of the SIPP, and feels the general position is unclear. 
Background
Mr M opened his SIPP in 2014. Two amounts of cash were paid into it, from his existing 
personal pension schemes. The majority of that cash was then paid to an investment 
platform called EPS, and investments were made for Mr M by EPS.
Mr Ms SIPP was originally provided by Avalon Investment Services (Avalon). Avalon went 
into administration in 2016. At that time Mr Ms SIPP was taken over by EISL. EISL 
appointed a sister business, Rowanmoor, to administer the SIPP on its behalf. In 2020 
Embark Services Limited (ESL) took over this job from Rowanmoor. 
The investments Mr Ms SIPP held in the EPS platform ran into problems, and some became 
illiquid (meaning they could not be sold). In 2016 Mr B asked EISL to sell the investments 
which were not illiquid, and some cash was paid into his SIPP in May 2016. In December 
2018 Mr M withdrew some of this cash from his SIPP  partly as tax free cash and partly as 
a taxable income payment. 
In 2019/2020 Mr M made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
about Avalon. The FSCS concluded Mr M had a valid claim, and paid him compensation in 
February 2020. Following this Mr M transferred the remaining cash in his SIPP to another 
pension. His EISL SIPP remained open, holding only the illiquid investments on the EPS 
platform. 
I have seen the full transaction history for Mr Ms SIPP, and the details of the compensation 
calculation carried out By the FSCS. 
In response to the complaint EISL said: 
It did not accept liability for Avalons business. If Mr M has an outstanding matter with 
Avalon in relation to his SIPP, this should be directed to the FSCS.
When Embark took over Mr Ms SIPP, it held a small cash balance and the 
investments with EPS. By February 2016, the EPS portfolio was already 
experiencing issues and had mostly been suspended. But there was some liquidity 
available within the portfolio.
When an asset is considered suspended or distressed it reviews the likelihood of any 
return on the investment before applying administration charges. On Mr Ms SIPP 
there were indications of the possibility of repayment of some of the investment in the 
future. So it continued to apply their annual administration fees to the SIPP.
Avalon previously applied monthly charges based on the value of the SIPP in 
addition to an Annual Administration fee, Embark stopped applying such charges 
with effect from June 2016.
It also took the decision to reduce the annual administration fee from £495.00 plus 
VAT to £250.00 plus VAT per annum.
It had not found any billing errors and believes its charges have been raised correctly 
and in line with the Terms and Conditions.
When Mr M asked if he could transfer the remaining cash out of his SIPP it agreed 
the SIPP could retain the EPS investments and it would make the SIPP dormant, 
resulting in no further fees. It also agreed to waive the transfer out fee.
EPS investment remains suspended and it has been recorded as holding a nil value 
at present. 
Our investigators view 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said, in summary: 
She had not seen any evidence to show EISL had failed to pay Mr M any amounts 
hed asked to be paid out of the SIPP. 
Following the FSCS payment of compensation to Mr M (which included a refund of 
fees), EISL had effectively only taken two fees  one annual administration fee of 
£300, taken after the FSCS compensation had been paid, and one fee of £420 for 
the payment of benefits (i.e. the cash paid to Mr M in 2018).
EISL had reduced its fees to reflect the circumstances. She thought the fees charged 
were fair and in accordance to the Terms and Conditions Mr M would have signed 
when he took out the SIPP.
So she did not think EISL had done anything wrong, and the fees paid were fair and 
reasonable for the work involved in administrating Mr Ms SIPP.
The SIPP still currently holds the EPS investments but EISL is making no further 
charges to Mr M. She understands further information will be provided to Mr M if the 
position changes. EISL has acted reasonably by not charging further fees, and this is 
in the best interest of Mr M.
Mr M did not accept the investigators view. He said he thinks he never got the full amount 
back from the FSCS. He thinks the payment from the FSCS is £12,000 less than what he 
had, as his overall pension was £36,000 to begin with. He added that he did not think EISL 
should have taken any fees from the cash held in his SIPP. He asked for an ombudsman to 
look at things, as he still felt he was losing out.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that I can only consider EISLs role as administrator of Mr Ms 
SIPP from 2016, when it took over from Avalon. EISL is not responsible for events before 
2016, such as the acceptance of the original business in 2014. That was the subject of       Mr Ms claim to the FSCS and the basis on which he was paid compensation. Its also not for 
me to comment on how the FSCS approached Mr Ms claim or calculated compensation 
(save for the extent to which the latter impacts the complaint against EISL). If Mr M does not 
agree with how the FSCS approached his claim or calculated compensation that is 
something he will need to speak to the FSCS about. 
I understand Mr M is concerned he has lost or is missing money from his SIPP and fees 
should not have been taken by EISL. But, like the investigator, I have not seen any evidence 
to show EISL has made an administration error or has otherwise not acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
I have carefully considered the full transaction history for the SIPP (which covers the period 
from its inception in 2014 to date and so partly pre-dates EISLs involvement) and the 
calculation carried out by the FSCS. Having done so, I can see no evidence of money being 
unaccounted for. 
I know Mr M feels money has gone missing from his SIPP. Mr M mentions a figure of 
£12,000. But, based on the evidence I have seen, all the money is accounted for and I think 
Mr M may have over-estimated how much money was initially put in the SIPP, and have not 
taken account of the tax free cash and income payment which was made to him by EISL in 
2018 and the sum he transferred out to another pension in 2021.  
The transaction history shows £32,690.62 (rather than the £36,000 Mr M mentioned when 
he spoke to the investigator) was paid into Mr Ms Avalon SIPP in 2014, from which fees 
were then taken, with £30,477.90 then being paid to EPS (and I note is the sum the FSCS 
used in its compensation calculations). I also note the history shows £10,404.81 was paid 
back to the SIPP by EPS in May 2016 (which then funded the tax free cash and income 
payment, and the sum Mr M transferred out to another pension), and this sum is also used in 
the FSCS compensation calculation.  
I note the total amount of fees refunded by the FSCS is equal to the total shown in the 
transaction history (taken by both Avalon and EISL), less the £300 annual administration fee 
taken by EISL after the FSCS had paid compensation and the £420 fee taken by EISL for 
paying cash to Mr M from the SIPP.
So, although I am only concerned with the period from 2016 here, I think this full transaction 
history shows there is nothing missing or otherwise unaccounted for. Mr M has effectively 
got back what he put into the SIPP, less the two EISL fees mentioned. 
Like the investigator, I do not think EISL has acted unfairly by taking these fees. The £420 
was for the work involved with crystallising Mr Ms SIPP and paying him a tax free lump sum 
and income. And the £300 was the only fee EISL took after the FSCS paid Mr M 
compensation in February 2020. EISL waived the fee for transferring the cash out of the 
SIPP and, once this transfer out completed, gave Mr Ms SIPP a dormant status, meaning 
he will not pay any further fees. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So I have reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator, and I do not think EISL 
needs to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman