DRN-2902020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited mishandled a
claim on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
In 2014, Mrs W bought a new sports car.
For the year from early December 2016, Mrs W had her car insured on a policy with LV. She
was the policyholder and the main driver. Her husband Mr W was a named driver of her car
on her policy.
In late October 2017, Mrs W was in hospital. Mr W reported that someone had broken into
their home and taken her car keys and her car.
In a call to validate the claim, Mrs W told LV that Mr W had been the last (authorised) driver
of the car. In November 2017, LV paid Mrs W about £55,000.00 for the pre-theft value of the
car.
As hed driven the car last, LV recorded a claim against Mr W rather than Mrs W. LV didnt
make that clear to Mr or Mrs W at the time.
Months later, police recovered the vehicle and LV sold it for about £40,000.00.
Mr W or his company owns three commercial vehicles. When he insured one of those
vehicles with another insurer in June 2019, Mr W didnt mention the October 2017 theft
claim. After that insurer found out about that claim, it gave notice to cancel the policy.
Mrs W contacted LV. In mid-June 2019 it wrote a letter to Mrs W as follows:
 [Mr W] was incorrectly listed as the last driver of the vehicle for the claim where
the vehicle was stolen and [Mr W] was a named driver on the policy.
The claim was correctly listed as a fault claim but [Mr W] was not involved.
The insurer of the commercial vehicle reinstated the policy.
In early June 2020, Mr W had a webchat with another insurer. It told him that the theft claim
was still showing against him on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) motor insurance
database. Mrs W complained to LV about that. In early July 2020, LV said it shouldnt have
agreed in 2019 that Mr W was incorrectly listed as the last driver before the theft. LV paid
Mrs W £100.00.
LV wrote a final response dated 6 July 2020 but sent it to an old email address and Mrs W
didnt receive it. So she chased LV in mid-July 2020.
In late July 2020, Mrs W brought her complaint to us. She said Mr W had last driven her car
about a week before the theft  so it wasnt fair for him to carry the can. She also said that
she had declared the theft to her insurers and paid extra when she didnt need to.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that LV
hadnt told Mr or Mrs W that it would attribute the claim to him. After LV agreed in 2019 that
Mr W had been incorrectly listed as the last named driver, LV didnt update CUE, the
investigator said. The investigator recommended that LV should:
1. write to Mrs W (by letter) to confirm that CUE has been updated to show Mr W is 
no longer showing as being associated with the theft claim, and that he will no 
longer need to declare this to current or future insurers; and
2. pay Mrs W, in addition to the £100.00 already paid, an additional £250.00 
compensation for stress and inconvenience; and
3. compensate Mrs W with an additional £500.00 to account for the sums Mr W has 
had to pay in extra insurance costs during the period.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs W and to LV on 1 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
I hadnt seen enough evidence of the motor insurance policies taken out by Mr or
Mrs W after November 2017. So I couldnt draw any conclusion that LV caused either 
of them to pay premiums higher than they would otherwise have been.
But LV gave Mrs W conflicting information in 2019 and 2020. The conflicting 
information caused her and Mr W distress and increased the time they had to spend 
on sorting out motor insurance.
I didnt agree with the investigators recommendation of a further £250.00.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs W or from LV, my provisional decision 
was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W (jointly)  in addition to the £100.00 already paid  a 
further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
LV says it has no further submissions to make in response to the provisional decision.
Mrs W generally agrees with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
The one thing she would like to emphasise is the time scale involved - it wasnt just a 
year of mis- quoted insurance prices on a total of four vehicles. The first year it 
happened she started to think it strange that she couldnt get quotes on some of their 
vehicles. The second year it came to light and LV sent that letter saying they will 
amend CUE but didnt. Then the third year where she had had enough and brought 
the complaint to us.
Also, the £100.00 she received from LV was simply paid into her account and when 
she discovered why, she understood it to be an ex gratia payment.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurers record claims on CUE. I agree with LV that its not standard practice for
an insurer to tell an individual about information it has given CUE. But an individual may
make a data access request to CUE for information stored about them.
Motor insurers base their quotes on information provided by the proposer customer. Keeping
in mind the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act, we expect insurers
to ask clear questions and customers to take reasonable care to give correct answers.
The incident in October 2017 was the theft of Mrs Ws car. The claim was a claim on her
policy.
From the validation call, I find that it was Mr W who had last driven the car. I dont think LV
treated Mr or Mrs W unfairly by telling CUE  correctly  that he had been the last driver of
the car before its theft.
Theres no evidence that the incident and the claim were his responsibility. So I dont
consider that Mr or Mrs W had any reason to regard the theft as a claim by Mr W.
Notwithstanding that LV named Mr W on CUE, he and Mrs W still had to take reasonable
care to give correct answers to questions from new insurers about claims and incidents. And
Mr and Mrs W werent likely to forget the circumstances of the theft. So I dont consider that
LV caused Mr or Mrs W any detriment by not telling them in late 2017 about what was
recorded on CUE.
When he took out a policy for one of his commercial vehicles in mid-2019, the insurer
mustve asked questions about claims and/or incidents. I havent seen any evidence of those
questions and Mr Ws answers. And Ive only seen part of the cancellation letter. So Im not
persuaded that LV caused the cancellation and the embarrassment and inconvenience that
went with it.
I dont condone LV writing a letter saying  incorrectly  that Mr W hadnt been the last driver
before the theft. But the letter helped Mr and Mrs W to get reinstatement of the policy for the
commercial vehicle. I havent seen any evidence of an increase in the premium. I dont
consider that the letter caused Mr or Mrs W any detriment.
I havent seen any letter from LV in 2019 that said it would amend CUE.
When he took out a policy for another of his commercial vehicles in mid-2020, the insurer
mustve asked questions about claims and/or incidents. I havent seen any evidence of those
questions and Mr Ws answers. So Im not persuaded that LV caused the embarrassment of
the webchat with that insurer.
Mr W didnt proceed with that insurer. Mrs W says he engaged a broker. Theres not enough
evidence that Mr W actually paid a higher premium than he shouldve had to pay at that
time. But in any event, LV changed the CUE entry. So Mr W can ask the broker to get a
review of the premium.
Overall, I havent seen enough evidence of the motor insurance policies taken out by Mr or
Mrs W after November 2017. So I cant draw any conclusion that LV caused either of them
to pay premiums higher than they would otherwise have been.
But I conclude that LV gave Mrs W conflicting information in 2019 and 2020. I accept that theconflicting information caused her and Mr W distress and increased the time they had to
spend on sorting out motor insurance.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct LV to pay Mr and Mrs W (jointly) compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
I note that LV has already paid £100.00. Its unfortunate that LV sent the final response to an 
old email address. I think thats why Mrs W received the £100.00 without an explanation that 
it was by way of apology. But in any event, I find it fair and reasonable to take that payment 
into account in assessing compensation for distress and inconvenience.
  
Putting things right
Keeping in mind the nature and duration of the distress and inconvenience, I dont agree
with the investigators recommendation of a further £250.00. I conclude that a further
£100.00 (to make a total of £200.00) is fair and reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W (jointly)  in 
addition to the £100.00 already paid  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman