DRN-3574729
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) terminated his 
hire agreement.
What happened
Mr E acquired a new car under a 36 month hire agreement with VWFS in March 2019. 
Under the agreement, Mr E was required to make one advance rental payment of £1,504.44 
followed by 35 payments of £250.74.
In March 2020, Mr E emailed VWFS and said he was impacted as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic and he wanted VWFS to freeze or postpone his repayments, without any 
applicable interest being charged. VWFS responded and said information about the support 
it was providing during the Covid-19 pandemic was available on its website. Mr E responded 
and said he had cancelled his payments and would restart after three months, unless VWFS 
had more options at the time.
On 3 March 2021, due to arrears owed by Mr E under the agreement, VWFS issued Mr E 
with a Notice of Default. It said he needed to pay the arrears of £752.22 by 22 March 2021. 
In April 2021, VWFS let Mr E know he owed arrears of £802.22 under his agreement. This 
included a £50 payment for the initial registration. But Mr E said he had been making his 
payments by Standing Order and that because VWFS had provided him with an incorrect 
agreement number, the payments hadnt been allocated to his account. Following this, 
VWFS terminated the agreement in June 2021. So, Mr E complained to VWFS.
VWFS issued its response to Mr Es complaint in July 2021. It said when Mr E first contacted 
it, it wasnt offering payment deferrals (PD). It said in his email, Mr E told it he would be 
cancelling his Direct Debit. It said whilst it accepted it could have let Mr E know he shouldnt 
cancel his Direct Debit, it did tell him that a PD wasnt in place. It said Mr Es Direct Debit 
had never been reinstated, but it received payments from Mr E by Standing Order. It said 
despite this, his agreement was in three months of arrears and so it terminated the 
agreement correctly, as Mr E didnt make the outstanding arrears payment.
Unhappy with this, Mr E referred his complaint to this service. He said the agreement was 
terminated incorrectly as the three missed payments were covered by a PD. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said that because a PD hadnt been agreed 
and three monthly payments had been missed, VWFS hadnt acted unfairly when it 
terminated Mr Es agreement.
VWFS agreed. But Mr E disagreed. He said he hadnt been told a three month PD hadnt 
been accepted, he accepted hed received letters from VWFS that said he owed it money 
but every time he checked his Standing Order, the money had been paid, he had made a 
number of calls to VWFS to discuss the account and VWFS didnt tell him the arrears had 
accrued from the time he was in a PD.
As Mr E remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr E has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether VWFS fairly terminated Mr Es agreement or 
not. If it didnt, Ill need to think about whats fair to put things right.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance on 24 April 2020, that 
came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties 
as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as VWFS to grant a three-
month payment deferral to people like Mr E. The guidance said that a firm should grant the 
customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) 
that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. The guidance also said that 
firms should not report a worsening arrears status on the customers credit file during the 
payment deferral period.
In this case, Mr E contacted VWFS around a month before the FCA issued guidance to 
motor finance providers about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a 
result of Covid-19. When VWFS responded to Mr E before the FCA guidance was issued, it 
said, I can confirm that VWFS is offering enhanced forbearance options to support 
customers during this challenging time such as arrangements to pay and breathing space. 
This information can be found on the VWFS website. Mr E responded to this to say, Ok 
thank you very much. Ive cancelled my payments & will start again in 3 months unless VW 
have more options if needed at the time. 
Mr E says he followed a link VWFS sent him and filled out a three month PD form online and 
sent this to VWFS. However, VWFS has said PDs were only made available to its 
customers on 27 April 2020. In addition, when PDs were granted a lender would discuss 
with its customer how an agreement would be restructured following a PD ending. Mr E 
hasnt provided any supporting information to suggest he received confirmation that a PD 
request had been accepted or what the terms of his hire agreement would be following a PD. 
So on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr E didnt request a PD through VWFSs 
online channel on 27 March 2020, as this wasnt an option that was available at the time. I 
think this is supported by the email Mr E sent VWFS around 15 minutes after VWFS had 
emailed him, as it doesnt mention that he filled out an online PD form, instead it mentions 
that Mr E has cancelled his payments. In addition, Mr E hasnt provided any supporting 
information to suggest that VWFS confirmed he had been granted a PD. So Im satisfied that 
Mr E wasnt granted a PD by VWFS.
Ive gone on to consider whether I think Mr Es agreement was terminated fairly. 
In February 2021, VWFS sent Mr E a Notice of Sums in Arrears letter. This confirmed his 
account had arrears of £752.22. The statement suggested Mr E had missed three payments 
between October and December 2020. As VWFS didnt receive a payment, or contact from 
Mr E about the arrears, it sent him a Notice of Default in March 2021. It said Mr E needed to 
pay the outstanding arrears before 22 March 2021, or it would consider terminating the 
agreement.
Mr E contacted VWFS in April 2021 and it was established that hed made four payments by 
Standing Order which hadnt been applied to his agreement. Mr E said he had made his 
payments and he was up to date with his agreement. But this wasnt correct as Mr E hadnt made the monthly payments in March, April and May 2020 and so any payments he made 
towards his agreement from June 2020 were allocated to the outstanding arrears in calendar 
order. So VWFS applied the missing payments to Mr Es agreement and said any further 
arrears letters could be ignored. 
Following this, VWFS carried out a review and called Mr E in May 2021 to explain why 
arrears were owing under his agreement. System notes from the call confirm that Mr E told 
VWFS he wouldnt engage with it and would delete any further correspondence he received. 
After this, VWFS sent Mr E regular arrears text messages and emails. But because Mr E 
didnt pay the outstanding arrears, his agreement was terminated in June 2021. 
Having thought about this carefully, when VWFS told Mr E his account was in arrears and 
detailed the months it hadnt received payment for, it did so correctly as a PD hadnt ever 
been agreed or applied to Mr Es agreement and so any payments he made were allocated 
to the arrears. In addition, Mr E hasnt disputed that he didnt receive the arrears 
correspondence or contact from VWFS. Instead hes said his payments were up to date 
because when he checked the corresponding monthly payment on his bank statement, a 
payment had been made. But he also missed three monthly payments between March and 
May 2020, which VWFS hadnt ever agreed to him missing. 
Given that VWFS attempted to engage with Mr E to explain why his agreement had accrued 
arrears and he didnt make the arrears payment before the agreement was terminated, Im 
satisfied VWFS fairly terminated Mr Es agreement.
Overall, Im satisfied VWFS didnt tell Mr E it had granted him a PD and I dont think it 
unfairly terminated his agreement.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman