DRN-1608058
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Capital One (Europe) plc defaulted his account and then sold it to a debt 
collection company.  
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card with Capital One in November 2006. In March 2017 Mr Ms 
account was passed to its collection department after he fell behind on his payments. In 
March 2018 Mr M agreed to pay £194 every month for four months.  
In June 2018 Mr Ms account was defaulted. Capital One said this was because he had 
failed to make payments within the agreed plan. Mr M was unhappy with the default being 
applied so he made a complaint. Capital One reviewed the complaint and sent a final 
response letter  dated 20 June 2018  saying the default had been applied fairly. 
Mr M contacted Capital One after the final response letter. He felt it had told him the default 
had been added incorrectly. Capital One sent another letter to him  dated 4 July 2018  
telling him it had already investigated the complaint and he should escalate the matter to this 
service. 
On 10 July 2018 Mr M set up a payment plan with Capital One for £100. In May 2019 Capital 
One then decided to sell his account to a debt collection company. Mr M was unhappy so he 
made a complaint. Capital One spoke to Mr M on the phone. It told him it made a business 
decision to sell the account and the debt collection company should keep the payment plan 
of £100 per month with him. Capital One reviewed his complaint and sent a final response 
letter  dated 25 June 2019  not upholding it. It said it could sell Mr Ms account as its within 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. So it wasnt willing to buy his debt back. 
On 23 December 2019 Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He added that he should 
be paid compensation as Capital One had breached his data by selling the debt to another 
company.   
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. He said this service couldnt consider whether the 
default had been applied fairly as Mr M hadnt brought his complaint to us in time or 
mentioned any exceptional circumstances explaining why the complaint was referred to us 
late. And Capital One hadnt given this service its consent to look into the matter. He added 
that Capital One hadnt done anything wrong when it sold the debt because the terms and 
conditions allowed it to do so. So Mr M wasnt entitled to any compensation. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the terms and conditions dont allow Capital One to sell his debt 
to a third party. And they werent valid because the second page didnt have a barcode like 
the first page. So he didnt think Capital One could rely on these. 
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr M feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Why I cant look into the complaint about the default
Our rules say that, without business consent, I cant consider a complaint which is referred to 
this service more than six months after the date the business sends its final response letter 
to the customer. This rule is called Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R (1). It can be found in 
the regulators handbook of rules and guidance (available on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) website). Capital One sent its final response in relation to the default on  
20 June 2018. The letter said if Mr M wasnt happy with the response, he had up to six 
months to bring his complaint to our service. So he had to bring the complaint to us by
20 December 2018. But we didnt hear from Mr M until 23 December 2019. So the complaint 
was referred to us too late.
Mr M hasnt specified why he didnt bring the complaint to this service in time. I can help with 
complaints referred outside of the usual time limits where Im satisfied that this was due to 
exceptional circumstances. But because Mr M hasnt said any apply here, I cant consider 
these. So I believe he could have brought the complaint to us within the six month 
timeframe. 
My decision on whether this service can consider the default
My decision is that I dont have the power to consider Mr Ms complaint about his default 
because its been brought to us outside the time limits set out in our rules. And Im not 
persuaded that failure to complain within the time limits was due to exceptional 
circumstances.
Capital One selling Mr Ms debt to a third party
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of the account. Having done so, Im 
satisfied Capital One does have the right to sell his account. These state Capital One can 
transfer their rights, benefits and obligations under the agreement without telling Mr M. I 
believe this means Capital One can sell the account to a debt collection company if it wants 
to. 
Mr M says he doesnt believe the terms and conditions are valid. But I dont agree. Mr M has 
signed the agreement and I dont believe that the second page of the agreement not having 
a barcode invalidates it. 
Mr M believes Capital One has breached his data under the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) by selling this account. But this would need to be reviewed by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the authority which deals with 
members of the publics data and whether someone has suffered a breach. Its not this 
services role to decide if Capital One has breached Mr Ms data.  
This service can consider whether its fair and reasonable to tell Capital One to pay 
compensation to recognise the impact of the debt being sold. I note that the first page of the 
terms and conditions do mention Capital Ones right to release information to a third party 
who takes over its rights and obligations. And if Capital One no longer wants to hold the debt 
then this is its business decision to make. Capital One has provided letters it sent to Mr M - dated 31 January 2018 and 4 June 2018 -  
to this service. These made Mr M aware of the possibility of the account being sold to a debt 
collection agency. The letters were addressed correctly to Mr M and Im satisfied they were 
sent. 
Ive also considered that selling the account hasnt financially disadvantaged Mr M.
Capital One told him his payment plan of £100 per month was still valid with the debt 
collection company. It would now be up to Mr M and the debt collection company to review 
any future payment arrangements. 
As a result, I dont think Capital One has treated Mr M unfairly here. So Im not going to ask 
it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman