DRN-4075961
The complaint
Mrs S complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her deferred defined 
benefit (DB) Occupational Pension Scheme, to a type of personal pension plan 
recommended to her by a financial adviser. She further complained that in the same 
transaction, she was also advised to transfer 3 small existing defined contribution (DC) 
pension schemes to the same new personal pension arrangement. 
City Financial Planning Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to CFPL.
What happened
It seems Mrs S had dealings with CFPL over quite some time. This isnt particularly unusual 
and we know she originally made contact with the business, first in early 2016, and again in 
the following months. A number of fact-finds and information gathering exercises took place 
during 2016 about the possibility of transferring Mrs Ss pensions to a new personal plan. 
Mrs S didnt transfer her pensions in 2016 but the dialog continued periodically. For 
example, analysis of her financial situation and the transfer options of her DB pension 
continued. It also seems an original cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mrs Ss DB 
scheme was requested in 2016 showing a transfer value of around £123,000. As this 
valuation was time-limited and it lapsed, another was requested in early 2017 (the CETV had 
by this time increased to £139,000) and again, later in 2017 (£136,000).
CFPLs recommendation was eventually set out in a suitability report of 29 August 2017 with 
the final transfers of all the schemes taking place in early 2018. To help demonstrate Mrs Ss 
financial situation and other circumstances of around that time, Ive used the documents 
from the advice to show:
Mrs S was a deferred member of the DB scheme in question, having been a member 
from the late 1980s. She ceased employment with the relevant company in the mid-
1990s. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the pension  the one Im using in this 
decision - was around £136,000. The 3 DC pensions comprised of relatively small 
values of around £1,619; £16,283; and £8,141 respectively. These values changed 
daily as determined by stock prices. 
The normal retirement age (NRA) of the DB pension was 60. The other 3 had 
targeted retirement ages of 66, 65 and 65 respectively. 
Mrs S was born in 1966 so by the time of the suitability report she was then aged 51 
years. She was married and with no-one else financially dependent on her. Shed 
had a previous and significant health issue, but the evidence shows that all this was 
well behind her when she met with CFPL about her pensions.
Mrs S earned around £50,000 per year and Mr S earned £28,000. They appeared to 
have sound finances with £41,000 in various savings accounts attributed to Mrs S, an 
affordable mortgage and substantial equity in their house which was valued at 
around £450,000. Mr S had savings of £6,000 attributed to him, again in a deposit 
account.
CFPL set out its advice in a suitability report in August 2017. It advised Mrs S to transfer out 
of her DB scheme and also out of her 3 existing DC schemes. The total value involved 
ended up being around £165,000. It recommended she invest the funds in a new personal 
pension arrangement with a large and well-known pension provider. Mrs S accepted this 
advice and so transferred from her DB and DC schemes to a personal pension thereafter. 
Mrs S complained to CFPL first, in 2022. In response, CFPL said it hadnt done anything 
wrong as regards the transfer of both the DB and the DC elements of Mrs Ss pensions, and 
it said it was acting on the financial objectives Mrs S had at the time. It did, however, accept 
that it had told Mrs S it would provide her with ongoing financial advice after the transfers. 
CFPL charged her for this ongoing advice but failed to provide it. It has offered her £3,800 
for this failing as full and final closure of the whole complaint. It offered £250 in addition as a 
goodwill gesture. 
Mrs S declined to accept the closure of the complaint and referred her case to our Service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. As CFPL 
hasnt agreed and the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CFPL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, CFPL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Ss best interests. 
Ive also considered what CFPL said in its first final response report (FRL)  the one it 
originally sent to Mrs S when responding to her complaint. Ive considered too, everything 
else it said including in its response to our Service and the View issued by our Investigator. 
And Ive thought carefully about everything said by the legal firm CFPL later asked to act on 
its behalf, dated 23 May 2023. However, what I am focussing on in this Final Decision is the 
relevant facts and aspects of the information which have a meaningful bearing on the 
complaint. So, Im not going to address every single issue raised by or on behalf of CFPL, 
but of course, Ive considered everything thats been said with great care. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB and 
DC schemes to a new personal pension arrangement was in Mrs Ss best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding her complaint in full.
Financial viability
As was required by the regulator at the time, CFPL referred in its transfer recommendation 
to a critical yield rate. Ive noted CFPLs view that use of the critical yield has little merit 
when assessing these types of pension transfer. But as Ill explain, the critical yield is only 
part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a transferred personal 
pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth for a transfer-out to become 
financially viable. It was mandated that the critical yield should be included in the transfer 
analysis and Ive noted that CFPL referred to it on a number of occasions in its own 
suitability report. Ive also looked at the much wider data, indicators and transfer implications 
of all the advice, as opposed to the one-dimensional comparisons which CFPL says weve 
carried out in this case.
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In Mrs Ss case, despite issuing its suitability report on 29 
August 2017, the transfer analysis the report referred to was over a year old. 
CFPL said that the critical yield required to match the benefits of the DB scheme she was in 
at the time, at her NRA of 60, was 8.1% if eventually retiring on a full pension, and 6.04% if 
taking a reduced pension and a tax-free lump sum. Of course, as Mrs S was still over 8 
years from the NRA, we cant realistically say what she would have done and whether shed 
have elected to take a lump sum with this pension or just the full pension annually.
But this transfer analysis was originally carried out on 15 August 2016 when Mrs Ss CETV 
was only around £123,000 rather than the £136,000 it ended up as when the suitability 
report was published the next year. I think its therefore obvious that CFPL should have 
updated its analysis and Ive seen no explanation of why it didnt. CFPLs adviser seeks to 
persuade me that this doesnt matter. I disagree. Mrs S was paying for financial advice and I 
think she had every right to expect it was being carried out in a professional and timely 
manner. As Ive said, the CETV had, by 2017, significantly changed so the analysis clearly 
ought to have been refreshed.
Nevertheless, the advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman 
Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
was only 3.5% per year for 8 years to Mrs Ss NRA (age 60), which is well below the higher 
critical yield of 8.1% which Ive mentioned above. The discount rate is also markedly below 
the lowest critical yield figure of 6.04%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower 
projection rate was 2%. Ive noted though, that these rates hadnt been updated for some 
time and as of 2017 we were in a period of sustained and very low interest rates.
At the time, CFPL said Mrs Ss attitude to risk (ATR) was highest medium or level 7/10. I 
accept this was completed after she spoke with the adviser, but I think this ATR 
categorisation was too high. The notes from the time about ATR are part of a standard 
questionnaire. However, Id have expected the advisor to use their experience and 
judgement to make sure that the correct ATR was arrived at. Here, the advisor failed to 
elaborate on the reasons for such a categorisation. Ive also noted that Mrs S said she 
needed certain investments explaining to her and although she had some small DC pension 
funds in existence already, theres no evidence these were anything more than invested for 
Mrs S than by her - or simply invested in default investment strategies requiring little or no 
involvement / knowledge from her.  
Also, despite having what most people would say were significant savings, these were held 
only in a deposit account and a cash ISA in Mrs Ss case. For record, Mr S also held savings 
only in a deposit account too. To me, this implies a much more cautious approach to saving 
and theres not even any suggestion that Mrs S had any past investment experience at all to 
call upon. So, theres no indication at all that Mrs S was interested in investing in the likes of 
foreign shares, bonds or commercial property, all of which are listed as investment classes 
in the highest medium category. 
Following the raising of the complaint, CFPL says now that Mrs S was a trustor for a trust 
fund which demonstrated some investment experience. But this isnt right; Mrs S fell into this 
situation upon the untimely death of a close relative and the trust oversaw the financial 
security of the deceaseds children. It was managed by a specialist investment provider upon 
whom Mrs S completely relied for advice and direction. Its not easy to understand how or 
why CFPL now thinks this in anyway should affect her knowledge or investment experience 
and it has produced no such evidence to support this. All CFPL can say is that this shows 
she knew funds could go up as well as down  to me this implies only the most basic 
understanding of investments.
CFPL says I should use a growth rate of around 6.5% (between 5-8%) as being a 
reasonable assumption in this case. It implies this would make the transfer viable on this 
basis. But theres no justification for using this growth assumption. As Ive said, Mrs Ss ATR 
categorisation was too high, it was out of date and was being assessed against incorrect 
CETV data. The discount rate was only 3.5% - and so to agree that the transfer away was 
financially viable Id have to think that achieving somewhere over 8% year on year was 
possible until Mrs S retired. I find that highly unlikely.
I could, of course, take the most favourable critical yield rate for CFPL which was 6.04%, 
although Id have no real basis for doing this because Mrs S didnt yet know her retirement 
plans and neither did CFPL. But still, theres no credible evidence showing that exceeding 
even this lower figure for 8 years would be likely. In Mrs Ss case, a growth assumption 
towards the lower half of the regulators projections and closer to the discount rate was much 
more appropriate. Even in the highly unlikely scenario  looked at from the perspective of August 2017  of the lowest critical yield being matched, there would be little point in exiting 
a DB scheme only to achieve broadly similar financial benefits.
However, to be clear, everything Ive seen shows the much more likely and predictable 
outcome was for growth to be below even the lower of the critical yields above, and certainly 
very unlikely to exceed it, year on year, until Mrs S retired. 
CFPL produced (and has further produced since the complaint) a number of financial models 
to show Mrs S could have had various incomes in retirement if she transferred. The 
implication seems to be that she would meet her retirement needs. It also asked me to 
consider what it called stress tests which show (it says) how her retirement income could be 
favourably compared with that of the DB scheme. Ive looked carefully at all these models 
and tests and find them to be irrelevant. They do not compare like-with-like, are based on 
past performance which cannot be guaranteed and they do not reflect the substantial 
benefits and guarantees Mrs S was advised to give up by leaving her existing pension 
scheme. CFPL also didnt really know when Mrs S was likely to retire or what her financial 
retirement needs would be. According to CFPL, the stress tests also anticipate a medium 
rate of return of 7%. Of course, this is much higher than the regulators medium rate and to 
me, it merely demonstrates CFPL exaggerated approach to possible future growth.
Of course, according to CFPL, its recommendation that she should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with her current DB scheme alone. 
Rather, CFPL said Mrs S had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for her, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits Ive mentioned. 
Ive considered these below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
Ive used the documentation from CFPL at the time to help list some of the themes the 
recommended transfer-away was based on. Our investigator also highlighted some themes 
when he issued his view. These were:
To separate her DB pension from the old employer scheme
To consolidate most of her pension under one scheme
To achieve ownership and control of the DB pension moving forward and to improve 
the benefits
To achieve more pension flexibility including over the tax-free lump sum
CFPL implied the death benefits in a personal scheme were more appropriate for 
Mrs S
So, it seems the supporting reasons that CFPL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mrs S. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn.
Flexibility, ownership and control, consolidation
There seemed little point in transferring from the DB scheme simply to separate Mrs Ss links 
with her former employer. In my view, CFPL didnt even explain what this really meant or 
what the advantages of it were. Ive also seen there was a connected issue set out by CFPL in the suitability report and I 
think this was misleading. CFPL implied, for example, that Mrs S should be considering the 
solvency of her existing DB pension scheme, the implication being that she ought to be 
thinking about transferring away in case the scheme somehow got into difficulties. In my 
view, the language used by CFPL in the suitability report about a possible failure of the DB 
pension fund to meet its future liabilities was both alarmist and completely unnecessary. In 
reality, Mrs Ss former employer (and the associated scheme) could be reasonably referred 
to as one of the largest and more financially sound in the country, with a funding position of 
100%. But CFPL still said it considered her DB pension benefits were not guaranteed. These 
comments were without justification.
I also cant see that Mrs S required flexibility in retirement in the way CFPL implied. As Ive 
said, CFPL did a poor job at identifying what Mrs Ss retirement income requirements might 
be or whether she had any evolving plans. No doubt, even if CFPL tried to assess her needs 
in retirement, it would have been somewhat hampered by another problem: her still being 
only 51 years old and over 8 years from the schemes NRA. In fact, theres nothing to say 
Mrs S wouldnt have wanted to work beyond 60 as her DC target pension ages infer. So, in 
my view, it was still too soon to be making these types of judgement and I dont think Mrs S 
could have yet had any concrete ideas about her retirement years. 
What all this means is that there was simply no evidence to support that Mrs S needed 
flexibility at all, or why the better option simply wasnt for her to use this DB pension exactly 
in the way it was designed. In my view, had she retained the DB pension, she would have 
been able to enjoy the guarantees and benefits this had. But she then had four DC pensions 
to complement this and Mr S seems also to have had a meaningful DC pension. Also, the 
concept of flexibility wasnt really defined by the adviser and I think this was no more than a 
stock objective used to try and justify the recommendation. At Mrs Ss NRA, CFPLs own 
analysis showed what she might receive as an annual pension with the DB scheme. Theres 
no explanation as to why this would not have met her retirement needs in addition to her 
other pensions. 
However, in terms of so-called flexibility, portraying Mrs Ss DB scheme as completely 
inflexible would be wrong. There were already limited areas of flexibility she could have in 
her DB scheme and these would have included retiring earlier if she desired, or taking a tax-
free lump sum of between 0-25%. The resulting flexibility would change her annual pension 
as she saw fit and so she could effectively choose a particular annual income to complement 
anything she had in her DC schemes, Mr Ss pension(s), or other financial resources she 
had access to when retirement eventually came. She was also contributing to a current DC 
scheme with her present job  this doesnt form any part of her complaint, but if Mrs S had 
kept working until the age of 60 for example, shed be able to add over 8 years more 
employee and employer contributions to this.
Theres also no evidence showing that Mrs S had either the desire or capacity to manage 
her pension funds if she transferred to a new plan. As Ive said, theres nothing to really 
show she was knowledgeable enough in these pension related matters or that she had any 
past investment experience to call upon. Even if I accept she would have had an interest in 
her DC pension investments, transferring her DB scheme and then controlling these funds 
was stepping up into a different financial context.
I therefore think the issues of flexibility and control were used to merely help justify the 
transfer-away recommendation. And at around £136,000 in total value (for the DB scheme), I 
think Mrs S would have needed significant help and advice to manage the scale and 
complexity of the funds. Given their value, this would have come at an ongoing and 
considerable cost which she didnt have with the scheme she was already in.Tax-free lump-sum
CFPL promoted to Mrs S that she could access far more tax-free cash if she transferred to 
a personal pension plan. Again, this was somewhat misleading. Its usually the case that 
more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB 
scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But CFPL should have been telling Mrs S at the time that extra tax-free lump 
sums being removed from a personal pension also came with consequences in that the 
amount left for her later retirement years would obviously decrease. Therefore, this needed a 
careful explanation; Mrs S wasnt getting more money, it was just being dealt with differently.
Death benefits 
Like our investigator, I think the death benefits in the existing DB scheme were poorly 
considered. CFPL implied that death benefits were discussed at the time and that Mrs S was 
better off with the more flexible death benefits associated with a personal pension plan. In 
particular, it said money could be passed to whoever she wanted if she died, rather than 
being constrained by the rules relating to spouse benefits in the DB scheme. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mrs S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension partly because of this, the priority here was 
to advise her about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think CFPL explored to what extent 
Mrs S was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
The death benefits in Mrs Ss scheme were extremely good and I think she would have 
considered them to be of great comfort. But its clear to me that the death benefits attached 
to the DB scheme were substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the DB 
scheme was up to 66.6% of Mrs Ss pension and so would have been very useful to Mr S if 
Mrs S predeceased him and I dont think CFPL made the value of this benefit clear enough. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And if Mrs S had died 
within 5 years of her NRA, a lump-sum of up to 5 times her accrued pension could be paid. 
However, in any event, there may not have been a large sum left in a personal pension plan 
to pass on to anyone, particularly if Mrs S lived a long life or if investment returns were poor. 
So, CFPL should not have encouraged Mrs S to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement. 
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that CFPL took into account the fact that Mrs S could have 
nominated anyone she liked as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in her DC schemes. 
To this end, Mrs S could have ensured part of her pension wouldnt just die with her.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs S. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mrs Ss situation.
Other issues
HealthIn the final response letter of 5 September 2022, CFPL relies on file notes from the time of 
the advice which suggest Mrs Ss main motivation for transferring was the more favourable 
death benefits in a personal scheme. It also says she had a significant health condition 
which might have affected her life expectancy and it explicitly said the advice to transfer from 
the DB scheme was suitable and, based on your needs and objectives and your health 
concerns at the time which could not be ignored. However, this is quite clearly inaccurate as 
the health issue referred to was from 10 years prior to the advice. At the time of the advice, 
Mrs S had long since had an operation which thankfully put the serious condition right, so 
these previous major health concerns had subsided. Ive also seen a contemporaneous file 
note from an advice session which mentioned (15 February 2016) Mrs S hadnt previously 
wanted to consider pension advice due to past health issues, but now felt she should as her 
life expectancy looked much better. 
To me, this demonstrates a failure of CFPL to really understand Mrs Ss full circumstances 
of the time. CFPL was obviously made aware in 2016 that the health issues were in the past. 
So CFPL raising poor health as a reason to transfer was, and is, a fundamental 
misunderstanding of her health situation which it should have been able to quickly clarify.
The information Mrs S was provided with 
A case put forward by CFPL is that Mrs S was provided with information and indeed some 
warnings about transferring her pensions and it implies this means it shouldnt be held 
responsible for what eventually happened.
However, to say this is in my view, to miss the point. To be clear, it was CFPL which was the 
regulated party here. It was also charging a considerable sum for financial advice. Its job, 
therefore, wasnt to simply help transact what Mrs S may have thought sounded like a good 
idea. She went looking for advice. And so CFPLs job was to fully interpret and understand 
her needs and make recommendations that were in her best interests. In any event, 
although I accept Mrs S was given a certain amount of information, CFPLs specific 
recommendations were to transfer her pensions. That was what its advice was and 
unsurprisingly, Mrs S acted upon it. 
So, CFPL is wholly responsible for its advice and for the situation which emerged thereafter.
Inflation
CFPL in its recent defence of the complaint referred to todays high inflation environment. It 
says the DB scheme, although subject to indexation, was limited to a certain annual 
percentage rise. CFPL says todays high inflation outstrips those rises in the DB scheme and 
so makes the transfer advice look good.
However, Ive found this argument to lack credibility. Firstly, it uses the benefit of hindsight to 
say Mrs S was better off exiting her safe and guaranteed DB scheme. And I doubt the CFPL 
adviser at the time could have predicted the high inflation of today when the low inflation 
environment of 2017 had persisted for many years. In any event, if CFPL was really saying 
at the time that a coherent reason to transfer was the risk of future high inflation, then Id 
have expected it to prominently say this at the time.
On the other hand, theres certainly no guarantee that the transferred funds  moved to a 
new personal DC plan  would even match todays inflation or allow for any annual pension 
rises at all.
Transferring the 3 DC schemesOur investigator comprehensively set out the rationale behind upholding Mrs Ss complaint 
about the transfer of her 3 DC pensions to a new personal pension scheme, alongside the 
DB scheme. As Ive said, her ongoing work pension, also a DC scheme, isnt included in this 
complaint.
My findings are that the transfer of the DB scheme was unsuitable. For the 3 DC schemes, I 
also find the transfer recommendation to be unsuitable. 
In my view, the advantages of transferring the DC schemes were not clear. These schemes 
were already invested in money market type funds and they already allowed Mrs S to 
flexibly use them after the age of 55. So, when in the suitability report CFPL referred to the 
opportunity to grow these funds and take a tax-free element from them in due course, all of 
these features were already present. 
However, we know the charges relating to the new proposed personal plan, as 
recommended by CFPL meant that Mrs S would be paying more in fees for the 3 DC 
schemes she was already in. I accept that CFPL set out these charges for her on the 
suitability report. But in common with the DB scheme, it nevertheless recommended that she 
should transfer.
I think CFPL should have been clearer with Mrs S and cognisant of the fact that fee erosion 
was a relevant possibility here. This is especially important when it relates to small pension 
pots, as in Mrs Ss case. And I dont think CFPL put forward any persuasive reasoning for 
transferring the 3 DC schemes into a new plan. For example, her funds existing annual 
management charges ranged up to a maximum of 0.7%. Under the recommended new plan 
the annual management charged rose to 1.7035%. Additionally, there was an ongoing 
advice charge of a further 0.5%. So, the costs of the recommended arrangement were 
higher than Mrs S existing DC schemes. Im satisfied that without CFPLs encouragement 
she wouldnt have switched out of the existing DC schemes. I say this not only because of 
the costs, but also because the 3 funds themselves were all relatively small in size. And after 
deducting the initial advice fee, there was no real benefit in her transferring to the new plan 
and funds recommended by CFPL.
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice to transfer away from Mrs Ss DB 
scheme was in her best interests. She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income within her current deferred scheme. 
Mrs S was still over 8 years from her NRA. Ive explained why, in these circumstances, I 
thought it was too early to recommend that she transfer away from her DB scheme and there 
were no other justified financial reasons for transferring. The evidence shows she would be 
more likely to receive lower pension benefits in the longer-term as a result of transferring 
away.
As for the flexibility CFPL says Mrs S required, I dont doubt that this and the control CFPL 
said she could have over the transferred funds, would have sounded like attractive features 
to Mrs S. Similarly with the death benefits, where CFPL implied these suited Mrs Ss 
situation much better in a personal pension plan, rather than the DB scheme she was a 
deferred member of. 
But CFPL wasnt there to merely transact what Mrs S might have thought she wanted. Mrs S 
wasnt experienced in these matters and she went looking for regulated financial advice. She 
was also paying for the advice. So, even though CFPL says Mrs S was given a number of 
warnings about transferring, its important to remember here that it was CFPL which specifically recommended an irrevocable transfer based on a series of stock objectives 
which I believe bore very little resemblance to Mrs Ss situation.
I therefore think CFPL ought to have advised her against transferring out of her deferred DB 
scheme. In my view, Mrs Ss circumstances were much more aligned to her retiring from the 
DB scheme when she was ready to do so and drawing a regular income. 
As for her 3 DC schemes, I have explained that all that really happened here was that Mrs S 
incurred higher charges. CFPL failed to make a coherent case for transferring these funds, 
other than they were consolidated under one plan. However, they already had the flexibility 
often associated with these types of pensions and ultimately, the increase in fees eroded the 
overall values in these funds without any obvious benefit. 
In light of the above, I think CFPL should compensate Mrs S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's DB pension transfer redress methodology, and also the methodology for DC 
pensions. 
Putting things right
The DB Transfer 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs S, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs S would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
CFPL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs S has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (60), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CFPL should:
always calculate and offer Mrs S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs S before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs S receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs S accepts CFPLs offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs S for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CFPL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mrs Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The DC Transfer(s) 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs S should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs S would have remained with her previous providers, however I 
cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policies would have 
been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mrs S's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must CFPL do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly, CFPL must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
CFPL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
CFPL should pay into Mrs S's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CFPL is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs S's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs S 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CFPL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs S how much has been taken off. CFPL should give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs S asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aviva
Pension
PortfolioStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs S' investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. CFPL should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the DC schemes should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if CFPL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, CFPL will need to determine 
a fair value for Mrs S' investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs S's circumstances and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Distress and inconvenience
I have also considered the impact on Mrs S of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum should be paid to Mrs S by CFPL for what they 
referred to as the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mrs Ss age, circumstances and the amount shed built up in her pension to 
that date. Also, by retirement this DB pension would have been a very substantial part of her 
overall pension entitlement so I think the thought of losing any benefits would have 
negatively impacted Mrs S. 
Mrs S also told us about the affect this unsuitable advice has had on her and that she was 
told that unless she transferred her existing pension value could be reduced. In its 
responses, CFPL also referred inaccurately to Mrs Ss previous health issues. I think Mrs S 
interpreted these comments as lacking compassion and I can understand the distress this 
would have caused her. Also, in raising her complaint, Mrs S became aware shed been 
charged for an ongoing service she hadnt received.
So, I direct that CFPL should also pay Mrs S £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on her retirement planning.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct City Financial Planning 
Ltd to pay Mrs S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
City Financial Planning Ltd pays Mrs S the balance. If Mrs S accepts this decision, the 
money award becomes binding on City Financial Planning Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman