DRN-2633122
Complaint
Mr J has complained that TFS Loans Limited (trading as TFS Loans) unfairly accepted him 
as the guarantor on a guarantor loan for his son as he was never in a position to afford the 
monthly payments. 
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 11 February 2021
TFS provided Mr Js son with two guarantor loans (and Mr J acting as guarantor) in 
December 2014 and July 2015. As I understand it Mr J hasnt complained about the first 
loan. So all references to loan from here are made in relation to the loan for £7,500.00 
provided in January 2015. This loan was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of 
around £280. The total amount to be repaid was £16,755.00.
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint. He told TFS that the checks it carried 
out before accepting Mr J as a guarantor on this loan werent reasonable and proportionate 
and if such checks had been carried out it would have seen that it Mr J wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments in the event he had to. So he thought that TFS shouldnt 
have accepted Mr J as a guarantor on this loan and upheld the complaint. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
As this was the case the complaint was passed to me.
On 11 February 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Js 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that the rules and regulations in place when TFS lent to the borrower 
required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could 
afford to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. The existence of a guarantee and 
indemnity agreement and the potential for TFS to pursue Mr J, instead of the borrower, for 
the loan payments didnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
As the borrower wasnt a party to this complaint, I didnt have any evidence of the checks 
that TFS carried out, or the depth that they went into, before it agreed to lend to the 
borrower. But the lack of information from both TFS and the borrower on this matter didnt 
lessen the problem here, as TFS is seeking to enforce the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement. And Mr J had been called upon to make the payments. 
In any event, notwithstanding the conclusions reached by our investigator and for reason, I 
didnt think that this mattered too much in this case. And as this was the case, I didnt think it 
necessary for me to make a finding on whether the checks TFS carried out on the borrower 
were proportionate. I said this despite the considerable weight of information Mr J had 
provided about the borrower and TFS was seeking to enforce the guarantee against Mr J. 
And both of these factors were indications that the monthly loan payments may have been 
unaffordable for the borrower in the first place. 
The reason I didnt consider it necessary to make a finding on whether the borrower should 
have been provided with the loan was because I was satisfied that it wasnt fair and 
reasonable for Mr J to have been accepted as a guarantor on this loan. I said this because 
as well as checks to establish that the borrower could afford to make the repayments, I also 
considered it was fair and reasonable to expect TFS to have carried out enquiries into Mr Js 
circumstances to check that hed be able to make the payments to this loan in the event he 
had to.
As I understood it, TFS enquiries suggested that Mr J was self-employed and earning 
around £500 a week. During the course of its enquiries, TFS used an electronic verification 
system to check that a similar sum of money was going into his bank account. I understood 
that while it found out Mr J had accounts that were up to date, it also found out that Mr J had 
an overdraft which was reaching its limit and crucially hed also defaulted on a second 
mortgage. 
Given these circumstances, I confirmed that I would have expected further enquiries and for 
further evidence on Mr Js financial circumstances to have been requested in order for it to 
have been fair and reasonable to have proceeded with the application. I couldnt see that 
this was requested but I went on to consider whether further information would more likely 
than not have shown Mr J would be able to make the loan payments in the event he had to.
I thought that had this information been requested, TFS would more likely than not have 
discovered that Mr J was earning substantially less than he thought. The only possible 
reason why the electronic verification may have concluded that around £2000 a month was 
going into Mr Js bank account was because it was a joint account and benefit payments 
were going in for the joint party. When Mr Js expenditure was deducted from his actual 
income, there wasnt really enough for him to be able to make the payments to this loan in 
the event he has to.  
In these circumstances, I thought that TFS ought to have realised that Mr J simply wasnt in 
a position to act as a guarantor on this loan. And as this was the case, I thought that TFS 
failure to properly look into Mr Js circumstances meant that it didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr J when it accepted him as the guarantor for this loan.      
As Mr J was, at least, being expected to make payments to a loan that he was unfairly 
accepted as a guarantor on, I intended to issue a final decision that found that he had lost 
out as a result of what TFS did wrong. 
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Mr J, which I found addressed TFS 
failings and Mr Js resulting loss.
Mr Js response to my provisional decision
Mr J responded to confirm that he accepted my provisional decision and proposed 
settlement. And he made no further points for me to consider.
TFS response to my provisional decision
TFS responded to confirm that it disagreed with my decision. In summary, it said:
Verification checks were carried out to support the income Mr J declared;
For the period 13 May  12 July a total of £37,862.97 paid out of the account;The default was historic and should have no bearing on a lending decision made 5 
years later;
The credit search provided a very high credit score and a very low indebtedness, with 
no lender registering a missed payment to indicate the guarantor was experiencing 
current stress.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice related to guarantor loans  on 
our website. And Ive referred to this during my consideration of Mr Js complaint. 
Ive thought about what TFS has said about its verification of Mr Js income. It may have 
asked Mr Js bank to confirm that a certain amount went into his account each month. But 
this suggests all credits including deposits from loans or other unsustainable sources could 
be classed as income. And as the account was a joint account it clearly would have included 
payments going into the account for the joint party. 
Im also concerned that TFS now appears to be arguing that £37,862.97 was paid out of the 
account Mr J disclosed in a three-month period. There is no indication of what these 
withdrawals were made up of. But it does suggest payments far in excess of the £2,166 per 
month Mr J was apparently in receipt of going out of the account. And, in my view, this calls 
into question, even more whether Mr J had sufficient funds to make the repayments to this 
loan in the event he had to, once his own commitments were accounted for.   
So I while accept that TFS might have checked whether Mr Js account was in receipt of a 
certain amount of funds, as there was no verification of where these funds came from (and 
who they were for), I think that at best this can only be considered it cross-referencing the 
income Mr J declared against amounts being credited into his bank account. And Im not 
persuaded that carrying out these checks meant TFS went as far as verifying Mr Js income 
and employment. 
Ive also considered what TFS has said about Mr Js default being historic. I accept that it 
was initially registered a few years prior to Mr J having been accepted as a guarantor on this 
loan. But this default wasnt satisfied despite these few years having past and it was on a 
mortgage. Im not saying that this in itself meant that in was unfair for TFS to have accepted 
Mr J as a guarantor. 
What Im saying is that Mr Js outstanding default ought fairly and reasonably to have 
prompted TFS to carry out further enquiries into Mr Js finances before concluding he would 
be able to make the payments to this loan, in the event he had to. TFS arguments regarding 
Mr Js supposed very-high credit score dont persuade me otherwise. 
This is especially as the credit search also suggests hed been in some kind of arrangement 
to repay arrears on his main mortgage in 2014 and that he was hovering around the limit of 
his overdraft and had exceeded it relatively recently. These were both indications of potential 
stress and coupled with the amounts going out the account, I think that this merited further 
investigation.
So having considered all of the further points TFS has made, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision of 11 February 2021. I therefore find that TFS ought to have realised that Mr J wasnt in a position to act as a guarantor on 
this loan. And as this is the case, I think TFS failure to properly look into his circumstances 
resulted in it failing to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr J when it accepted him as the 
guarantor for this loan.      
As Mr J is, at least, being expected to make payments to a loan that he was unfairly 
accepted as a guarantor on, So I find that he has lost out as a result of what TFS did wrong 
and TFS now needs to put things right. 
  
Fair compensation  what TFS needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for TFS to put things right by:
releasing Mr J from all obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement and 
then terminating it;
refunding any loan payments that Mr J may have made;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they 
were paid by Mr J, if they were, to the date of settlement;
removing any information recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of this loan;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give    
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 11 February 2021, 
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. TFS Loans Limited should put things right for Mr J in the way 
Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman