DRN-4217195
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Miss S was looking to get some building work done at her property. She 
posted on a community message board and was recommended a builder by someone who 
said they had used them before. Miss S says she got quotes from several other companies 
but this builder was reasonably priced, so she went with them. Miss S and the builder then 
agreed the work to be done and a price, and Miss S made a number of payments from her 
HSBC account to the builder over the following months  totalling £18,375.
Miss S says the builder started the work but then would not show up on certain days and 
started asking for more money. She also says the work that was started wasnt finished to a 
good standard and her property was left in an unsafe condition. She then found out about 
other people who were dissatisfied with the work theyd had done by the builder. And after 
further delays, she asked the builder for a refund, but the builder stopped responding to her 
messages. Miss S then reported the payments she had made to HSBC as a scam and 
asked it to refund the money she had lost.
HSBC investigated but said it felt the builder was a legitimate company and this was a civil 
dispute between Miss S and the builder. And so it didnt agree to refund the payments 
Miss S had made. Miss S wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they thought the builder was 
most likely operating as a genuine business and they didnt think they had intended to scam 
Miss S when she made the payments. So they didnt think HSBC should have to refund the 
money Miss S lost. Miss S disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to refund the money Miss S 
has lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether HSBC should refund the money Miss S lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Miss S says she was recommended the builder by someone on a community message 
board who said they had used them before. But this isnt how I would typically expect a 
scammer to get in touch with someone.
The builder started the work at Miss Ss property. And Miss S has said the builder did what 
appears to be a significant amount of work, including ripping out the old kitchen, installing a 
new cooker, washing machine and sink, putting in cupboards, laying new flooring and 
starting to plaster the walls. Id usually expect a scammer to do as little work as possible, so 
it appears the builder did more work that Id expect a scammer who never intended to 
complete the work to have done.
The builder was also registered on Companies House at the time Miss S made the 
payments to them, which I wouldnt necessarily expect a scammer to have done either.
I appreciate how Miss S feels about this case, and that her property was left unfinished and 
she has had to pay for another builder to finish the work. And some of the information she 
has sent us does suggest the builder wasnt acting legitimately. But I must make a decision 
on what I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
think its more likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a legitimate business at 
the time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work wasnt completed. I dont 
think the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Miss S, or that Miss S 
has been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payments Miss S made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, 
or that HSBC should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss S has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible for 
the money shes lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman