DRN-3793736
The complaint
Mr P complains that due to a system outage he was unable to extend a stop loss for a 
contracts for difference (CFD) position on his eToro (UK) Ltd trading account. As a result, 
the position executed, and he incurred a loss of around $1,700, which he feels wouldve 
been avoided if the outage hadnt occurred. 
What happened
In August 2022 eToro experienced a technical issue on its platform that prevented some 
customers from carrying out certain trading actions on their accounts, including editing stop 
losses.
Mr P complained to eToro, providing screenshots that showed that he had been unable to 
edit the stop loss and that he had contacted eToros customer service team during the 
outage for help with the issue.
eToro acknowledged that there had been a technical issue. It explained that during the 
period in question the stop loss on the position had been triggered but due to the technical 
issue it had closed later, at a worse price. It said that to put matter right it had therefore 
refunded Mr Ps account based on the difference between the actual close price of the trade 
and the stop loss price that it shouldve close at. It had also credited him as a gesture of 
goodwill a small sum to reflect a spread not being charged.
Mr P didnt accept eToros response. He was of the view that as it had been responsible for 
the outage it should therefore pay him the amount of his loss on the position. He referred the 
complaint to this service.  
An investigator considered the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
said, in brief:
Mr Ps screenshots showed hed been unable to extend his stop loss on the position 
in question, but they didnt show what he had intended to adjust the stop loss to.
eToro had acknowledged the technical issue and adjusted Mr Ps account to reflect 
the position having been closed at the stop loss price Mr P had originally set. That is 
what she wouldve expected eToro to do in the circumstances.
Without evidence showing exactly what Mr P had intended to do she couldnt fairly 
say that eToro should further compensate him as she didnt know what he would 
otherwise have done, or whether it wouldve put him in a better or worse position.
eToros terms and conditions confirm that if there were platform issues it wasnt liable 
for any losses and Mr P wouldve agreed to the terms when he opened his account. 
eToro had acted in accordance with its terms by putting Mr P in the position he 
wouldve been in but for the technical issues experienced.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators opinion. He maintained that as eToro was responsible 
for the issue it should refund him, as he firmly believed that he wouldnt have incurred the 
loss on the position but for the technical issue.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. As such, theres not a great deal I can add to whats already been said. 
I do understand Mr Ps frustration with the technical issue. I note the evidence hes provided 
that confirms he was unable to edit the stop loss and shows his subsequent attempts to get 
the matter put right.
Theres no dispute that eToro experienced a technical issue on the day in question, meaning 
various types of orders and adjustments couldnt be made. Its accepted that was the case. 
The issue in dispute is how the impact of the issue on Mr P should be addressed. 
As noted, eToros resolution was to put Mr P in the position hed have been in had the issue 
not occurred and the stop loss been at the level at which it was originally set. I can 
understand why Mr P feels that wouldnt actually have been the position, as he wouldve 
edited the stop loss, as he feels his evidence shows. The problem is determining what the 
situation would ultimately have been if he had edited the stop loss. The evidence supports 
his intention to edit it, but it doesnt show what he intended to change it to, in terms of a new 
level and at precisely what point that wouldve happened.  
This being so, I dont think an alternative resolution to that which has already suggested by 
eToro can be fairly determined. Had the technical issue not occurred it is possible Mr P 
wouldve ended up in a worse position. And it cant be said with any certainty that he 
wouldve not incurred any loss at all on the position, as his proposed resolution suggests. 
As Ive said, I do appreciate that this type of situation, where a technical issue impacts the 
functionality of a trading service, is very frustrating. But its not an uncommon one, across all 
trading platforms of this type. And, as is the industry norm, eToros terms, which Mr P 
agreed to at the outset, take account of this and explain that its service is not guaranteed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, while I recognise Mr P will be very disappointed, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman