DRN-3304851
The complaint
Mr H complains PRAC Financial Limited arent reporting a debt on his credit file properly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
PRAC purchased a defaulted payday loan from the original lender on 22 October 2020. The 
original lender had defaulted the loan on 30 September 2020. PRAC have continued to 
report the account as in default since taking it over.
Mr H entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) on 1 January 2021, which he says 
means PRAC should only be reporting the debt as in default up to December 2020, with 
payments being made on time since January 2021.
A DAS is a statutory debt management tool introduced by the Scottish Government to help 
people repay their creditors. Under the DAS, people can apply for a debt payment 
programme (DPP). If approved, all interest, fees, penalties or other charges owed by the 
debtor are frozen. Each month, payments are made by the individual to the DAS 
administrator, who then distributes that out to the individual creditors.
Mr H contacted PRAC on 7 April 2021, and again on 6 June 2021, about his concerns but 
says he didnt receive a reply. So, in July 2021 he contacted our service.
Mr H had been contacting PRACs agent to raise the complaint, so we contacted them to ask 
for their file. They explained theyd passed it on to PRAC themselves  who issued a final 
response on 8 June 2021.
In this response, PRAC said theyve had responsibility for updating Mr Hs credit file since 
taking over the debt on 22 October 2020. Theyve continued to report the debt as in default 
as thats a true and accurate reflection of the account. Theyre not reporting a new late 
payment marker every month but are continuing to report the last status the original lender 
reported as its the same agreement. And they are correctly updating Mr Hs outstanding 
balance on the credit file with any payments hes sending. Because of that, theyre not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Our Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint but felt PRAC had acted fairly so didnt uphold 
it. 
Mr H felt our Investigator hadnt fully grasped his complaint. He said once a DAS is in place 
it supersedes the original agreement. He said the DAS is supposed to be registered on his 
credit file, and it stays there for as long as the DAS is in place  six years in his case. He 
said lenders need to report theyve received the new monthly payment from the DAS. He 
said if they dont do this and mark his credit file with anything other than on time then the 
debt will stay on his credit file forever which isnt the point of this kind of scheme. Mr H also 
provided links to websites which gave over more information regarding this. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the information Mr H has provided, paying particularly close attention to 
the evidence hes given since I became involved  as he says this shows what PRAC are 
doing is wrong.
But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I cant agree with his thoughts on this.
The Accountant in Bankruptcy (AiB) website which Mr H kindly provided contains the 
relevant information about how a DAS works. In the debtor guide, written for consumers 
such as Mr H, it says in the section Will it affect my credit rating?:
If you participate in DAS your details will be recorded on the DAS RegisterCreditors and 
credit reference agencies check this register on a regular basis and may update your credit 
file to reflect this information.
So, as can be seen this says creditors may update a credit file  it doesnt say they have to. 
Ive also read, in full, the creditor guide for someone who has a DAS  this would tell PRAC 
what theyre required to do. In this, theres no mention of them having to change the status 
of the account from whatever it was previously, to on time as Mr H has suggested. Ive also 
noted Mr H has said the account should be recorded as in default until December 2020  so 
hes seemingly not disputing the account did default. 
With all of this in mind, I cant agree PRAC have done anything wrong by continuing to report 
the account as in default. Ive noted Mr Hs concerns that this would go on forever because 
of how things are being reported  but defaults are generally removed from credit files six 
years after the date they were first reported. 
Mr Hs default was registered on 30 September 2020, so Id expect it to drop off his credit file 
six years from then  even if the debt hadnt been repaid by then. At this time, Mr Hs DAS 
will still be place  as that started in January 2021, and hes said thats also set for six years. 
If, when the default should have dropped off, Mr H then has concerns about how things are 
being reported on his credit file, hed be able to raise a new complaint about that.
Another factor Ive considered is that PRAC would be required to update Mr Hs balance  to 
show it was reducing in line with the payments he was making under the DPP. From the 
evidence Ive been provided with it does show the outstanding balance Mr H owes is 
reducing. I say this because on 19 October 2020 Mr H provided us with a screenshot showing the 
outstanding balance on his account with PRAC was £3,959. On 5 January 2022, Mr H has 
provided an updated version of the same screenshot, showing the outstanding balance is 
now £3,905  a reduction of £54. So, I think PRAC are reporting the updated balance 
outstanding  and appear to be doing so correctly when I compare Mr Hs screenshots to the 
information provided from PRAC about the outstanding balance.
Mr H has said PRAC arent reporting any information  and I think hes saying that because 
according to the explanation of how to read the screenshot a grey box means no data has 
been reported. And, only grey boxes are shown for each month. Im unclear on why this 
would be the case, and it may be more of a question for the credit reference agency. But, Im 
satisfied PRAC are reporting the updated balance as its reducing.
Ive also noted Mr H had concerns regarding PRAC not replying to his complaint. Financial 
businesses such as PRAC are allowed up to eight weeks to investigate and reply to a 
complaint. Based on what Ive seen Mr H originally contacted PRACs agent on 7 April 2021, 
and then received a reply to his complaint on 8 June 2021  slightly outside of the eight-
week time period. Although I can see this was frustrating for Mr H, Im satisfied he was 
aware he could refer the complaint to us  as he did so saying hed not had a reply and 
wanted us to investigate matters.
Overall, Ive found PRAC are continuing to report the status of the account as in default 
correctly, are updating the credit file with his payments  and arent required to do anything 
further regarding their time to reply on his complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H didnt accept the outcome Id reached. He said because Im not requiring PRAC to 
update his credit file as they should, in six years time he wont be able to rebuild his credit 
file. He said this is because credit files work on a rolling basis, so itll be 12 years before his 
credit file is eventually clear, and thats breaking the DAS.
PRAC didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs comments, but I cant agree. As Ive explained above, the 
default thats been added to his credit file will drop off six years after its been placed. And, 
based on what Mr H has told us, the DAS at this time will be complete. A DAS is designed to 
repay the entire debt in full.So, based on everything Ive been provided with, from what I can see Mr Hs credit file will 
be clear in six years time  assuming he keeps to the DAS, and doesnt have any other 
lenders add negative information on his credit file in the meantime. Im unclear what Mr H 
means by credit files working on a rolling basis leading to him not having a credit file for 
12 years. Ive seen nothing to suggest thatd be the case, and hes not provided any other 
evidence to show this is what will happen. As Ive set out in my provisional decision, and 
again above, Id expect his credit file to clear in six years. And, I say that because Im 
satisfied PRAC are reporting the default, and his payments, correctly. So, I still wont be 
requiring PRAC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman