DRN-3387855
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about Allianz Insurance Plcs refusal of two claims made under her pet 
insurance policy. Any reference to Allianz in this decision should be read as also including 
the agents that handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
In May 2021 Miss M made a claim for pre-authorisation of costs for a behaviourist as her 
dog was urinating frequently. Another claim was made in June 2021 for the cost of 
investigations into the same issue. 
Allianz refused the claims, as it says the vet notes record that the dog showed signs of the 
same problem within the first 14 days of the policy start date and as such this condition is 
excluded from cover. 
Miss M is very unhappy about this. She got the dog on 14 November 2020, as a rescue from 
abroad when it was around four months old, and took out the policy two days later. Miss M 
says the dog was urinating in the house randomly when it first came to her but this was due 
to the trauma of being transported from abroad and because it had not been properly house-
trained before it came to her but this was unrelated to the claim. Miss M also says:
After the claims were declined, she called Allianz at the beginning of November 2021 
as she wanted confirmation that no exclusions had been applied to her policy and 
assurance that if the issue arises again, it will be covered in the future. This would 
affect her decision about renewing the policy later in November 2021.
Alllianz told her there were no exclusions but after she probed, it told her that if 
similar issues arise any claims are likely to be rejected. This means an exclusion has 
been applied and she had no choice but to renew her policy with Allianz, as other 
insurers will likely now refuse any claims as well. 
Miss M says that one agent she spoke to was extremely aggressive towards her and 
was shouting at her that the dog would never be able to get cover for any urinary or 
behavioural issues. Miss M says the agent was implying she was being dishonest. 
There were no issues within the first 14 days of my policy. The vet didnt diagnose 
any problem with the dog.
She provided a letter from her vet practice confirming that the issues were unrelated.  
Allianz has repeatedly refused to accept the opinion of the treating vet, without any 
any evidence, which is unjust. 
The urination due to not being house-trained was entirely different to the problem that 
developed later. By mid-December 2020 the dog was house-trained and then at 
some point she developed an issue which started off relatively mildly with her 
marking the carpet on average once or twice a day. This was a separate issue and 
needs behavioural treatments as recommended by the vet. 
Allianz took too long to deal with her claim. She made a subject access request for 
information from her file and Allianz more than once gave her the wrong information 
regarding this and refused to let her know the complaints procedure. 
She had to spend considerable time and effort to resolve this matter. It has been an 
extremely distressing experience and the refusal of the claim has meant shes been 
unable to get the treatment for behavioural issues recommended by the vet. 
Allianz referred the matter to one of its vets who said that while there was potential for 
inappropriate urination during a settling in period, this issue had been constant since Miss M 
got the dog and there was no clear separation between the urination in the first few weeks of 
ownership and the urination that is now diagnosed as a behavioural issue needing 
treatment. Allianz therefore maintained its refusal of the claim. However, it accepted that it 
had not dealt with Miss Ms complaint as well as it should and there was a delay in sending 
the subject access request. Allianz offered £50 as compensation for this.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and did not think that Allianz was acting 
unfairly in refusing the claims, as there was likely to be a link between the incidences in the 
first two weeks of the policy and the claims made in 2021. The Investigator also thought the 
offer of £50 already made was reasonable to compensate for the time taken to deal with the 
claims and the subject access request. 
Miss M does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to 
me. She says the whole claim process has had a negative impact on her. She wants the 
claims paid and increased compensation. Miss M has made a number of further 
submissions, which Ive summarised below: 
The Investigator has failed to identify the impact on her of the poor customer service 
and so how can she justify the £50 compensation offered?
The Investigator didnt address all the customer service issues she raised and seems 
to suggest that it should be expected that there will be service failings in any claim.
She also received poor service in response to her complaint, which have also not 
been fully addressed. 
The vet never diagnosed any condition during the first 14 days of the policy, despite 
examining her. 
The vet only saw the dog in the first 14 days of the policy because it was a first check 
up, not because she was concerned about any medical issue. 
The condition could not have been diagnosed at that point anyway, as it is 
behavioural and could only become apparent after a settling in period. Allianz seems 
to accept it is a behavioural issue and not a clinical one.
She could not have known about the condition, if the vet didnt.
The Investigator referred to there having been a change in the dogs state of health in 
the first 14 days, which has not been suggested by anyone else.
The Investigator placed too much weight on the evidence provided by Allianzs vet 
and she would question the relationship between Allianz and the vert who would not 
seem to be independent.  
Random urination first noted is entirely different from frequent urination, which is the 
matter of concern that later developed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the claim covered? 
Miss Ms policy excludes: Any illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy first 14
days of cover: year, or b) the section being added to your insurance.
Any illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs, as an illness that showed clinical
signs, in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the section being added to 
your insurance.
Clinical signs are defined in the policy as being: 
A change(s) in your pets normal healthy state, bodily functions or behaviour
Illness, illnesses: Any change(s) to a normal healthy state, sickness, disease, defects and
Abnormalities Illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover:
These terms are not unusual or unfair in my opinion. Most pet insurance policies have 
similar exclusions, for claims made soon after the policy begins, as well as for conditions that 
exist before the start of the policy; and treat recurring conditions in the same way. The above 
term means it is not just the date of diagnosis that is relevant but the date that the animal 
first displayed symptoms of any illness.
The vets notes of the initial dog check on 27 November 2020 says, OR [owner reported] 
separation anxiety, adv contact behaviourist. Also urinating randomly, adv needs more 
training.
Theres a record in the vets notes of an email 14 January 2021 of Miss M asking for a 
consultation with a behaviourist regarding problematic behaviours as recommended at the 
previous visit.
Then on 15 February 2021, Miss M wrote also, shes still unable to control her urination 
sometimes. Whilst this has improved, weve had her for almost three months and shes still 
doing it.  
There was also a visit on 19 February 2021 where it is recorded that Miss M told the vet: 
she is urinating indoors a lotWeeing inside 10x + a day, according to O, drinks quite a bit 
too.
The vet said would check a urine sample and if other causes are ruled out, it could be 
behavioural. 
On 26 February 2021, Miss M told the vet the dog was urinating all over the house and the 
vet Did say to O that at this age and the pattern she is displaying, I am thinking it is more a 
behavioural issue. However, for completeness, we could do a blood sample to assess 
kidney parameters and make sure nothing congenital. If all comes back ok, behavioural 
becomes more likely. O booked in for blood sample on Monday.
The vets notes from March 2021, indicate that the vet thought the random urination was not 
due to a urinary tract infection.  
Miss M says the urination in the house within the first 14 days of the policy was due to lack 
of training and this is different from the issue claimed for, which is frequent urination. I am 
not persuaded by this and I do not think it is supported by the evidence set out above, which 
seem to clearly record that the dog was urinating inside the house from the time Miss M got 
her and there doesnt seem to have been any resolution of this. Miss Ms vet practice manager (not the treating vet) wrote in support of the claim and said 
she did not think the refusal of the claim was fair. She said the vet only recorded what Miss 
M told her and did not diagnose any separation anxiety or urinary issue in November 2020. 
And while Miss M said in February 2021 that the dog was still unable to control her 
urination weve had her for almost three months and shes still doing it this is because the 
training regime for adopted pets works in three month blocks and does not mean that the 
urination had been a constant issue since November 2021. Miss M has also referred to a 
text message she sent to the rescue centre which said that the urination starting around a 
month ago, which would mean December 2021. 
While it is possible that there were also issues due to the dog having been transported and 
in a new home, the notes indicate that the urination indoors was an issue that was noticed 
when Miss M first got the dog and didnt stop. I am not persuaded that the reference to the 
dog still having a problem with urination should not be read as meaning it had been going on 
for some time. The concern was the fact the dog could not control its urine, meaning it was 
urinating indoors, and there is no convincing evidence of a clear distinction between random 
urination and frequent urination as asserted by Miss M. 
And as stated, it is not necessary for there to have been a clinical diagnosis of a condition, or 
for Miss M to have been aware of any condition, for the exclusion to apply. It is also not 
required for it to only be a physical condition rather than a behavioural one. It is only required 
that there be a clinical signs or symptoms of a condition which occur within the first 14 days 
of the policy.
Having considered the evidence provided, I think Allianz has done enough to establish this is 
a condition, which started within the first 14 days of the policy. Therefore I am satisfied 
Allianz is entitled to rely on the policy exclusion to refuse the claim. 
Future claims
Allianz has confirmed that it has not imposed any particular exclusions relating to urinary or 
behavioural issues. However, the exclusion of cover for anything that starts within the first 14 
days of the policy will apply to future claims. So the policy terms  unchanged from when 
she took out  will exclude any future claims that also relate to the issues Miss M raised with 
the vet in the first 14 days of the policy. I do not think this is unfair.
Claims-handling
Sometimes we award compensation to reflect the impact of a wrongdoing on the 
complainant. Miss M has expressed how stressful she has found this claim, the time and 
effort she has expended in pursuing it and the complaint, and the detrimental impact on her 
of not having the costs of the treatment her dog needs covered. I have no doubt this is the 
case. However, as I have concluded that Allianz was entitled to refuse the claim and also 
correct in informing her that future claims of the same nature would be subject to the same 
policy term, I am not able to award any compensation for this. The impact on her was not the 
result of anything done wrong by Allianz.
Miss M also says that there were considerable delays on Allianzs part in dealing with her 
claim. I have not seen any evidence of unreasonable delay in dealing with the claims, or that 
she was spoken to inappropriately by any of the claims-handlers. Allianz provided its answer 
to those claims on 23 June 2021, around four weeks after the first claim was submitted. In 
that time, it had obtained and considered the vets records. I do not think this is 
unreasonable. I therefore do not consider any compensation is warranted for this. Miss M asked for the decision to be reassessed in mid July 2021 and then again in August 
2021, which is when Allianz sought the opinion of one of its vets. Miss M questions the 
relationship between Allianz and the vet that provided an opinion on the claim. I have not 
investigated this any further, as I do not think it makes any difference to the outcome of the 
claim or complaint. The refusal of the claim was based on Miss Ms vets records and it only 
sought an opinion from another vet to check its position after Miss M asked it to reconsider. 
Overall I think Allianz dealt with this fairly and reasonably and within reasonable time. While 
the matter was debated for some considerable time, I do not think this is due to anything 
Allianz did wrong but was because Miss M was trying to persuade it to change its mind. 
It follows that I also do not think Allianz did anything that meant Miss M was forced to renew 
with it in November 2021. 
There was apparently a failure to inform Mis M of the correct complaint procedure initially 
and also a delay of around a month in dealing with her subject access request. Both matters 
were however, progressed. Having considered all the evidence I agree that the £50 
compensation already offered is reasonable compensation for this.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as Allianz Insurance Plc has already made an offer that I 
consider fair and reasonable in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman