DRN-2569158
The complaint
Mr S complains that MI Vehicle Finance Limited provided him with a car on hire purchase 
that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ill refer to MI Vehicle Finance Limited as Mann Island.
What happened
Factual background
In January 2020 Mr S took a car from Mann Island under a 49-month hire purchase
agreement. The agreement and accompanying sales documents recorded that the cash
price of the car was £10,650, it had been first registered in January 2015 and had a recorded
mileage of 38,900. It came with a 3-year warranty.
Within a couple of weeks Mr S contacted the dealership which had supplied the car to Mann
Island (and so ultimately to him) to say that the exhaust had failed. Specifically, he said it
had a hole in the system. The dealership asked for an opportunity to inspect the exhaust. It
accepted that exhaust systems can be prone to erosion but said that the car had undergone
an inspection and MOT test immediately before delivery to Mr S; neither had identified
corrosion of or damage to the exhaust system.
Mr S said that the noise from the exhaust was such that he felt he had to get it repaired
without delay, and so made arrangements for a new exhaust system to be fitted  for which
he paid. 
On the evening of 16 February 2020 Mr Ss car had to be retrieved from a car park and
transported to his house by the RAC. The engine mountings had snapped, causing the
engine to drop. The circumstances in which that happened are disputed. Mr S says he was
simply pulling away from a parking spot; Mann Island believes he may have been driving at
speed and in a dangerous manner. The cars mileage at this point was 41,175.
Mr S told the dealership  and, by extension, Mann Island  that he wanted to reject the car.
Mann Island thought however that it wasnt liable for the damage to the car. It had, it said,
been of satisfactory quality at delivery. It suspected that Mr S had modified the car (in breach
of the hire purchase agreement) and that any damage to it had been caused by his driving,
rather than by any defect in the car itself.
Our investigation
Mr S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had
happened. He wasnt persuaded that Mr S had been responsible for the damage. He
recommended that Mann Island accept Mr Ss rejection of the car, refund the deposit and
any payments made after the engine damage and pay half the cost of the replacement
exhaust system.
Mann Island didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an
ombudsman review the case.
My provisional decision
I considered the case. Because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached 
by the investigator, I issued a provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision, I noted that there had been three inspections of the car, namely:
a pre-purchase check carried out by BCA;
an inspection carried out by ACE; and 
a later inspection carried out by DEKRA.  
There were, I noted, some inconsistencies between the conclusions reached by ACE and 
DEKRA about the cause of the engine mounting damage.  
I noted too that Mr S appeared to have arranged to have the exhaust replaced at around the 
same time (or shortly before) he had reported its failure to Mann Island. 
I commented that the evidence provided by Mann Island about Mr Ss use of the car and the 
social media postings to which it had referred were circumstantial. I did note however that 
the car park from which the car had been collected was a well-known meeting spot for car 
enthusiasts. 
Having considered all the evidence, I concluded, provisionally at least, that the most likely 
cause of the engine mounting damage was Mr Ss own driving, rather than an inherent fault 
with the car.  
Mr Ss response to my provisional decision
Mr S did not accept my provisional findings. In summary, he said:
I should not have considered evidence other than that provided by the parties. 
The BCA report had not been included in the documentation provided with the car. It 
showed however that the dealership had been in possession of the car for at least six 
weeks, but there was no evidence of what happened in that time. 
The ACE report said that the engineer had found evidence of a frontal body repair. It 
recommended an investigation into the cars service history, to see if the cam belt had 
been replaced, as this would require the removal of the engine mountings.
The ACE report concluded that the engine mounting bolt had been cross-threaded, 
indicating it had been removed and refitted at some point. 
The DEKRA report had been influenced by comments made by the dealership, which 
was seeking to protect its position.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by addressing Mr Ss comment that I should not have considered evidence 
additional to that provided by the parties. This was in response to a statement in my 
provisional decision that I had identified a local news report that councillors had been 
concerned about late night car rallies in the car park from which Mr Ss car had been 
recovered. 
I am required by law and by our rules to determine Mr Ss complaint by reference to what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I am not limited to considering evidence provided by the parties, and its not unusual for this service to consider third party 
evidence or to carry out its own investigations, where its appropriate to do so. Were not 
bound by the same rules as evidence as a court would be. Our procedures are inquisitorial, 
rather than adversarial.  
The BCA report  which Mr S has now seen  was described as a Standard Mechanical 
Report. It was in the form of a checklist and such reports are  according to BCAs website 
 intended to provide a condition assessment for cars sold at auction. It appears then that 
the dealership would have relied on this report (or at least seen it) before buying the car.
The report was dated 10 December 2019 and noted an odometer recording of 38,895 miles. 
It didnt suggest the car had been involved in any type of collision and noted that the exhaust 
had no leaks and was secure. It noted that one of the cars tyres was a little worn, but 
otherwise did not record any matters that needed attention. It also said that the car had been 
modified, but without saying how. It had however been remapped by a previous owner. 
Mr S said that the BCA report suggested that the date of the report meant that the dealership 
had been in possession of the car for some six weeks. There was, he said, no evidence of 
what happened in that time.
The BCA inspection would have been carried out before the dealership bought the car, so it 
shows only the earliest date that the dealership acquired it. I think it unlikely however that the 
dealership carried out any major work in the time it had the car. The report gave it no reason 
to do so. I do note however that the recorded mileage was only five miles less than when Mr 
S took delivery. 
An ACE engineer inspected the car on 26 February 2020, following the engine mounting 
failure. His report said a mounting bolt had  suffered a fatigue failure a progressive 
condition developing over time and stress cycles. He thought that there was evidence that 
the bolt had been cross-threaded at some point and had not been located correctly.  
The engineers report said too that there was evidence that the car had had frontal repairs. It 
noted displacement marks and witness marks around the securing bolts. There was also 
white pen marking on the underside of the bonnet with the date 10/12/19. The report 
recommended further enquiries to see if the engine had been removed, for example, to 
replace the cam belt. The engineer concluded the faults would have been present at 
purchase and were most likely the result of unsuccessful repairs.    
When asked to provide further detail about his opinion, the ACE engineer expressed the 
view that the bolt failure would have been developing for 500 to 1,000 miles before failure. 
A further report was prepared in June 2020, this time by DEKRA. That report noted that the 
fixing bolt had sheared but said there were no signs of the bolt being loose or cross-threaded 
at the time of failure. The engineer thought the failure was likely to have been caused by 
extreme stress.
It is also apparent from the DEKRA report that the dealership had told the engineer about its 
own suspicions of how the damage had arisen. He had seen the ACE report as well.
In some important respects these two reports are, therefore, not consistent with each other. 
One concluded that the engine had been removed and replaced incorrectly. The other 
expressly said there were no signs that the mounting bolt had been cross-threaded. I note 
however that both reports included statements indicating that the engineer understood the 
standards expected of expert witnesses in court proceedings; Im satisfied that both 
genuinely believed the conclusions they reached.Im not persuaded though that the car had been repaired or the engine removed, either by 
Mr S or anyone else. The only evidence of that is the ACE engineers opinion, with which the 
DEKRA engineer disagreed. Even the ACE engineer appeared to say that failure would have 
occurred within about 500 to 1,000 miles. Mr S drove the car for some 2,000 miles, however. 
If, therefore, the engine was removed, either (i) Mr S was responsible or (ii) failure didnt 
occur until some time after it might have been expected. The DEKRA engineer did not 
believe the mounting bolt was loose or cross-threaded, and I think that is likely to be correct.
The ACE engineer commented as well that the underside of the bonnet had the date 
10/12/19 noted on it. That was the date of the BCA inspection. That inspection had not 
indicated any real issues with the car, however, or that any work had been carried out. I think 
its likely that the mark was simply a note of the inspection date, not of any major repair 
work. 
I turn then to Mr Ss use of the car. Mann Island referred to what it believed to be a social 
media account run by Mr S. The account suggested that Mr S was involved in gatherings of 
car enthusiasts for semi-competitive purposes. It concluded that the damage was most likely 
to have been caused by aggressive driving at high speeds.
It said too that Mr S had told one of the individuals who had collected the car that he had hit
a pot-hole at speed. Mann Island also referred to a post on social media. Mr S had posted a 
picture of his car being loaded onto a transporter with the caption: It was fun while it lasted. 
This wasnt, it suggested, a normal reaction of someone whose car had suffered a 
catastrophic failure during normal driving.
As Ive indicated, I also noted that Mr Ss car had been collected from a car park which was 
known for late-night car rallies. When asked, following my provisional decision, what he had 
been doing in the lead up to the engine mounting failure, Mr S did not provide any further 
information, other than to say that he had waited two hours for a recovery vehicle. 
Im not persuaded that Mr S ran the social media account to which Mann Island referred. I do 
believe however that he told the recovery driver that he had hit a pothole at speed. I note too 
that he has not said what he was doing in the hours before the mounting bolt failure, even 
though the investigator expressly asked him about that. Nor did Mr S take the opportunity to 
explain the comment he posted on social media when his car was recovered.    
For these reasons, I remain of the view that the engine mounting failure was most likely to 
have been caused by Mr Ss driving style and use of the car, not by a fault with the car.  
Mr S did not respond expressly to my provisional findings about the replacement exhaust 
system  in particular my finding that he had decided to change it before reporting any issue 
with it and that it had not failed in the way he had suggested, or at all.
For the avoidance of any doubt, however, I remain of the view that Mr S decided to upgrade 
the exhaust system, even though there was nothing wrong with it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require MI Vehicle Finance Limited to take any further steps 
to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman