DRN-4356605
The complaint
Miss F complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a credit balance refund.
What happened
Miss F accepts she made an overpayment on her credit card account of just over £500. She 
says HSBC didnt deal appropriately with the refund which caused distress and 
inconvenience. In summary Miss F was told in December 2022 she would receive the refund 
but did not until after this complaint was brought to us. She also made a number of 
telephone calls to HSBC about her money.
HSBC accepts it didnt deal appropriately with the refund and accepts it ought to have 
checked the source account with Miss F in early December 2022. It has offered 
compensation and has now refunded the money.
Miss F brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it. The investigator 
recommended HSBC refund the balance of just over £500 and pay £250 compensation.
Both sides agreed with that recommendation and the balance has now been refunded.
HSBC says it paid the compensation to Miss Fs credit card account and Miss F says due to 
the delay she should be paid further compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC should now pay the 
compensation, but I accept the problem in Miss F receiving the compensation does not 
appear to be HSBCs fault.
There is no issue here that HSBC did not deal appropriately with what ought to have been a 
straightforward matter of arranging a credit balance refund. I accept that Miss F was caused 
inconvenience in contacting HSBC and was without her money for some months. I can see 
that the money was refunded in around March 2023.
The key issue for me to decide is the compensation amount and can see both sides agreed 
that £250 was appropriate. I agree with that amount and cant see what took place justifies 
further compensation as I dont think Miss F suffered any real financial loss.
I can see that HSBC did apply the refund to Miss Fs account shortly after she accepted the 
investigators view. I think there was then a breakdown in communication about how Miss F 
could receive the money which I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for. I can see that Miss F 
has agreed a compensation amount for what took place which doesnt involve HSBC and I 
hope in those circumstances that she will appreciate that it was not responsible for the delay. 
And did apply the compensation to her credit card account before removing it. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay the compensation to Miss F and not to her credit card account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this case in part and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss 
F £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman