DRN-4441872
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tradex Insurance Company Limited would only pay a settlement of 
£10,000, less the policy excess, for the loss of his motorhome following a claim made on his 
commercial motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ps motorhome was destroyed by fire, and he made a claim on his policy. But Tradex 
said the policy had a limit of indemnity of £10,000 for all but one specified vehicle on the 
policy. So it would only pay Mr P £10,000 less the policy excess for his loss. This was much 
less than the vehicles value. Mr P was unhappy with this as he said he hadnt been told this 
and he said he had added the motorhome to his policy through the online portal and it hadnt 
been rejected.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Tradex 
had made it clear to Mr P that he could have only one vehicle on the policy with an indemnity 
of over £10,000. This was applied to another vehicle. So he thought Tradex had acted in line 
with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr P replied that Tradex had allowed him to add the motorhome to his policy via its portal 
even thought it was valued at over £10,000. He said it hadnt warned him of the limit of 
indemnity for the motorhome and that it was underinsured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated that Tradex would only pay him £10,000 for the 
loss of his motorhome which was valued at £35,000. He said that when he had added 
another vehicle that exceeded the limit of indemnity to the policy Tradex had called him and 
this had been included in the special endorsements in the policy. He said he didnt have a 
call when he added the motorhome and he assumed it had been added in the same way. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Ps policy schedule includes a section stating that there is a Limit of 
Indemnity of £10,000 with the explanation that:
The vehicle limits stated are the maximum indemnity payable for any one vehicle or claim.
There is one exception to this, and this is a specified vehicle listed under Special 
Endorsements. 
Mr P contacted his broker to try and reduce the cost of his policy at renewal. And Ive 
listened to this call. I think Mr P clearly understood that there was a £10,000 limit of 
indemnity for the vehicles on the policy except for the one specified vehicle that was outside 
this limit. The agent explained to Mr P that the policy allowed for only one vehicle as an 
exception, for an additional premium, and Mr P said he understood. So Im satisfied that the 
policy limits were clearly explained to Mr P before he renewed his policy. 
Mr P later added the motorhome to the policy and this was valued at more than £10,000. 
And I agree that he wasnt notified at the time that this wouldnt be entirely covered by the 
policy. But I think the policy limit had been clearly explained to Mr P. And I think Mr P should 
have been reasonably aware that he hadnt paid an additional premium for this vehicle as he 
had done for the specified vehicle. 
And so Im satisfied that Tradexs settlement of Mr Ps claim was made fairly and reasonably 
in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman