DRN-3314243
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for a poor repair under a home
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had insurance cover in the name of a home assistance company and underwritten by
Aviva. In January 2021 he claimed on his policy for a leaking toilet. Aviva arranged for an 
engineer to visit, and they repaired the leak. But they said as the holes in the toilet pan were 
rotten it couldnt be bolted back onto the floor. Instead the toilet was sealed to the floor.
In December 2021 Mr C told Aviva that the toilet had been wobbly for some time and that 
this had now caused a crack in the toilet which was leaking. He said the insurance policy 
gave a 12-month guarantee for the repair work. He said the crack in the toilet was because 
of the repair work that had been done so he expected the damage to be corrected. He 
complained to Aviva.
Aviva said in January 2021 their engineer repaired a leaking toilet under Mr Cs insurance 
policy. Their engineer replaced the necessary parts including the pan connector and tested 
to make sure the toilet was no longer leaking. But they hadnt been able to bolt the toilet 
back to the floor because the existing holes were rotten. They said the engineer sealed the 
toilet to the floor. In December 2021 when Mr C reported the toilet was leaking again, they 
arranged for another engineer to visit. They said there wasnt an issue with the previous 
repair and advised Mr C the toilet needed to be replaced, but this wasnt covered under the 
policy. And Mr C had access to another toilet in the household. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Avivas response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt 
persuaded that the crack in the toilet was caused by a previous poor repair. 
Mr C disagrees with the investigators opinion. He says he wasnt told the toilet wouldnt be 
bolted back in place. And reiterated that the toilet had been wobbly for some time. He asked 
for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva is the insurer responsible for dealing with Mr Cs claim. So, where I refer to Aviva or 
the insurer, I include the home assistance company and its engineers, for whose actions I 
hold Aviva responsible.
Mr C is adamant the damage to the toilet is a result of the poor repair done when sealing the 
toilet to the floor which he said caused the toilet to move and eventually crack. Avivas 
engineer said they didnt find anything wrong with the way the toilet had been sealed.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on the evidence Ive seen and weigh up what I think most likely happened. And to see 
whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr C.
Mr Cs home emergency insurance policy covered plumbing and drainage problems. This 
included escapes of water from toilets but excluded the replacement of sanitary wares such 
as a toilet.
In January 2021 an engineer repaired Mr Cs leaking toilet under his insurance cover and 
sealed the toilet to the bathroom floor. I can see from the engineers report that the repair 
was tested to make sure the leak had stopped. I have also seen photos of the toilet sealed to 
the bathroom floor as the engineer reported he couldnt bolt the toilet as the bolt holes were 
rotten. The engineers completion report says:
Replaced all parts to toilet also replaced pan connector tested all good had to seal wc to 
floor as tiled floor and old holes are rotten
And I can see that Mr C signed the engineers completion report.
While I can understand why Mr C makes a connection between the two leaks as hes said 
that the toilet had been wobbly for some time and believes this caused a crack in the toilet 
pan. I cant see Mr C reported any issues with the January 2021 repair until December 2021, 
a gap of about eleven months.
In December 2021 the engineer who visited said the seal had been done correctly. And 
I havent seen any evidence to show a deterioration of the sealant around the toilet or the 
toilet lifting away from the floor. And if the repair was of a poor quality and causing the toilet 
to move I would have expected Mr C to have contacted his insurer before December 2021. 
But he didnt speak to his insurer until the toilet began to leak. Mr Cs policy schedule says:
Under this policy, the workmanship and any part(s) used by us to solve the problem will be 
guaranteed for a period of twelve months from the date the work is carried out.
But I havent seen any evidence to show that the insurers engineer hadn't sealed the toilet 
properly in January 2021. Or that this repair directly caused the crack in the toilet. So I cant 
hold  Aviva accountable for the cracked toilet as Im cant say it had been caused solely by 
the repair done in January 2021. 
Mr Cs policy has outlined above covers for escapes of water. But wouldnt include the 
replacement of the toilet as this is excluded under  the policy:
Whats not covered.. d) replacement of sanitary ware (e.g. basins and toilet bowls)
I can see from Avivas records that the engineer advised Mr C that the toilet couldnt be 
replaced under his policy cover and that hed need to fund the replacement himself. He also 
checked that Mr C had access to other toilet facilities and so isolated the leaking toilet.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent seen any evidence to show 
the damage was caused by a poor repair, and the exclusion in his policy was applied correctly. So, I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyve dealt with 
Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman