DRN-1845225
The complaint
Mr L complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) has rejected his claim 
for a valuable jewellery piece on his contents policy. He would like the claim paid.
What happened
Mr L had owned a valuable jewellery piece (Ill refer to this as the item) for many years. Mr L 
regularly used a gym and attended on 26 July 2019. After exercising, using the sauna and 
showering he returned to the changing room, Mr L says he became aware he wasnt wearing 
the item. He checked his locker and clothes and the gym was searched. The item couldnt 
be found.
Mr L went home to search there in case he hadnt put the item on, but it wasnt there. It 
hadnt been found at the gym. Mr L was advised by staff that several lockers had been 
robbed without signs of forced entry in the same time period that Mr L was there. The police 
had attended. There was CCTV evidence that showed a suspect and the same person was 
thought to have attempted to use bank cards stolen from the lockers that day. 
The police took details from Mr L, he said none of his other possessions were missing from 
the locker. The police said to check internet sites and pawnbrokers should the item appear 
there. Mr L spoke to the police on several occasions over the next few weeks. With the 
police unable to recover the item Mr L notified Acromas on 16 August 2019. It asked Mr L for 
evidence of ownership, which he provided, and for details of what had happened. It says in a 
recorded call Mr L confirmed the item had been stolen from the locker.
As the item was of significant value there were specific conditions about how it was to be 
kept both in and outside Mr Ls home. If the item wasnt being worn it was to be secured in 
an approved safe with the keys to be kept secure. Acromas said the locker in the gym wasnt 
adequate having only a simple keypad operated lock. It said the claim couldnt be accepted. 
Mr L asked for confirmation of the clause in question which was provided. A few days later 
Mr L contacted Acromas by email saying:
It cannot be defined where my  was taken from which I had on   , no other items 
were stolen including wallet with seventy pounds cash and credit cards and mobile 
phone  It must have been removed (stolen) somehow between my house and 
entering the gym and changing. 
Mr L said the claim should be paid. Acromas appointed an investigation firm (E). It visited the 
gym and interviewed staff. It requested the police report and interviewed Mr L. E says Mr L 
told it that he had only said the item was in the locker because of what had been said by the 
gym staff. He wasnt sure it had been taken from the locker as nothing else had been. He 
said he always wore the item whilst in the gym and never put in the locker. E didnt accept 
Mr Ls revised version of events and said he was evasive when questioned about it. It said 
the police report confirmed Mr Ls behaviour was erratic.
E said it didnt think Mr L still had the item or that he had sold it. It said the item was 
relatively large and heavy with a secure fastening mechanism. And for it to have fallen off or 
been stolen whilst he was wearing it, without him noticing, coincidently within the same 
timeframe that multiple thefts from lockers were made, wasnt credible. It doubted he wore 
the item whilst exercising and said the most likely explanation was that it had been stolen 
from the locker. 
It said Mr L had changed his explanation solely in order to have the claim paid once his initial 
claim had been declined. Acromas wrote to Mr L saying on the balance of probabilities the 
item had been stolen from the locker and said the claim wouldnt be paid. 
Mr L complained. Acromas rejected the complaint, repeating its view that Mr Ls revised 
explanation was a deliberate fabrication in order to have the claim paid. Mr L referred his 
complaint to our service. He said the decision that the item had been stolen from the locker 
wasnt reasonable. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms of Mr Ls policy were clear 
and the item needed to be worn or locked in an appropriate safe when it wasnt. 
He said as Mr L had provided conflicting information it was necessary to consider what was 
most likely to have happened in the circumstances. Our investigator agreed the most likely 
explanation was theft from the locker, so Acromas had been correct in declining Mr Ls 
claim. 
Mr L said Acromas had based its decision on circumstantial evidence and was speculation. 
He said hed told the gym staff the item was lost and went home to look for it. He said he 
always wore it rather than putting it in the locker. He disputed that the item had a secure 
fastening mechanism as stated by Acromas and said it had become loose in the past when 
engaging in other sports.  Mr L doesnt agree so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
This is a very unfortunate situation and I know Mr L feels very strongly about it, but I dont 
think Acromas has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim. I think the policy 
conditions are clear and Mr L has explained at length how he would secure the item in a safe 
when at home and whilst on holiday if he wasnt wearing it. So, I think he was aware of these 
policy conditions.
Mr L didnt report the incident to Acromas until around three weeks after the details had been 
confirmed to the police and various follow ups had been made with them. Based on the 
evidence available I agree that the most likely explanation is theft from the locker.
Mr L says he always wore the item while exercising, using the sauna and shower. He also 
says the item sometimes came loose during other sporting activities, presumably as an 
explanation of how it could have been lost by falling off. But if the item could become loose 
as Mr L suggests I think it is unlikely he would risk losing or damaging it whilst exercising, 
whilst always locking in a safe when it wasnt being worn. It doesnt seem reasonable that 
such care would be taken on one side and such a risk on the other.  
Mr L has said the Acromas has made it decision based on circumstantial evidence and 
speculation. I think it is a reasonable interpretation of what evidence there is. And unfortunately, that evidence doesnt support Mr Ls own revised explanation. So, in the 
circumstances here and given the clear policy conditions I dont think Acromas has come to 
an unfair or unreasonable decision and I cant ask it to change it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman