DRN-2552789
The complaint
Mr E complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card
(Argos), have refused to refund him for a vacuum cleaner that wasnt delivered. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Argos, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion and
Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
This is a finely balanced decision. Mr E says he didnt receive the high specification vacuum
cleaner he ordered, and Argos say he did.
Mr E cant provide evidence that what was delivered was definitely not the vacuum he
ordered as it was delivered to his business address and he didnt open it on delivery. On the
other hand, Argos cant demonstrate that what was delivered was the vacuum cleaner that
had been ordered as they didnt take a photograph of the drop off.
So, as some of the information is incomplete I have to base my decision on the balance of
probabilities.  
On balance Im persuaded by Mr Es argument that he probably didnt receive the vacuum
cleaner he ordered. I say that because:
Mr E says he needed a new cleaner because his old one had broken. He says this
happened because it had been used on a carpet that was still wet after it had been
cleaned. Hes provided a copy of the carpet cleaner hire invoice in support of this
testimony. So, he appears to have had a reason to buy a new cleaner;
I can see that Mr E bought a replacement cleaner when he returned the one that had
been delivered in error. I dont think its likely he would have done that if his purchase
of the original cleaner was for fraudulent reasons;
Mr E complained straight away to Argos and I think this is what someone would be
likely to do if theyd been given the wrong product;
Mr E has been determined in his pursuit of his claim and thats what I would expect
from someone who hadnt been treated fairly. I think someone who had been
involved in a fraudulent activity would be concerned about the police getting involved
and would therefore be less likely to pursue their complaint so vigorously;
Mr E has provided evidence that suggests his credit rating is outstanding and his
income significant. It seems he would therefore have little incentive or motive to
mount what would be quite an elaborate fraud;
Ive reviewed the call transcripts of his conversations with the business and his
conversations and communication with this service and Ive found his evidence
consistent throughout;
whilst Argos have suggested the product was transferred to store under the correct
product code and in untampered packaging; I dont think they have provided
evidence that the package Mr E received was the one that left the store. There are,
for instance, no photographs. The vacuum cleaner could therefore have been
exchanged for the other model before Mr E received it;
Ive considered whether it was likely the vacuum cleaner was switched after it was
delivered to Mr Es business. I dont think thats likely as: 
1) whoever switched it would have needed a box of the correct size and a 
replacement vacuum cleaner. I think its unlikely someone would have been 
suitably prepared to commit a theft of that type in the limited time they had 
available and with no notice the goods were being delivered.
2) Mr E has provided evidence to show the post room at work was the
subject of tight security and I think that limits the opportunity for a theft of this 
nature.
I think, on balance, the evidence Ive listed above suggests Argos havent been reasonable
here. They have a responsibility to ensure their customers receive the products they pay for
and I dont think theyve provided sufficient evidence to suggest Mr E did get the vacuum
cleaner he had ordered.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to tell Home Retail Group Card Services
Limited to refund £603.94, that being the money he spent on a vacuum cleaner he didnt
receive. As Mr E has been deprived of that money they should add 8% simple interest per
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E and Argos accepted my provisional decision, so Ive found no reason to change it. 
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am upholding this complaint and I tell Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited to refund £603.94, that being the money Mr E spent on a vacuum cleaner he didnt receive. As Mr E has been deprived of that money they should add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman