DRN-4158389
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund the money it lost to a 
scam from its Tide-branded business bank account.
Cs director, Mr L, brings the complaint on Cs behalf. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In September 2022 Mr L received a call from someone purporting to work for Tide. 
Unfortunately, he was really interacting with a fraudster. The fraudster convinced Mr L that 
Cs Tide-branded business bank account was at risk and persuaded him to drain the account 
balance via two faster payments. The fraudster led Mr L to believe that the money was being 
sent to a new account held in his name. Mr L discovered hed been scammed the following 
day when information about the new account did not arrive. 
ClearBank tried to recover the money Mr L sent, but was ultimately unsuccessful. It declined 
Mr Ls claim for a refund and maintained its position when he complained. In its final 
response letter it said Mr L had authorised the disputed payments and there was nothing 
more it could have done to have saved the funds. It explained it was not feasible to stop and 
check every single payment and it had adequate systems in place. As Mr L remained 
unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint be fully upheld. She noted the account hadnt 
been open long, but highlighted the two disputed payments were for much higher values 
than usual. She thought draining the account balance stood out and said ClearBank ought to 
have been concerned enough to intervene and warn Mr L this could be a scam. She thought 
ClearBank would have been able to uncover the scam with some simple questions about 
what the payments were for as Mr L had not been given a cover story. She noted the 
sophistication of the scam and felt that Mr Ls actions were reasonable. She noted the 
difficult personal circumstances Mr L and his family were facing without this money, but 
pointed out she was unable to compensate the director of a limited company for his personal 
distress.
ClearBank offered a 50% refund in response to the Investigators view. It said that business 
customers do make bigger payments from time to time and pointed out it is a difficult 
balance to strike between allowing genuine business activity and detecting potential 
irregularities. 
It recognised that it could have done more to monitor these specific transactions given the 
concerning factors our Investigator had highlighted about the payments. But it felt Mr L 
should take some responsibility too. It pointed out that its technical records show he scanned 
the QR Code which gave the fraudster web access to Cs Tide account 26 times. It 
highlighted the wording of the one-time passcode texts sent to Mr Ls mobile number 
explaining Tide would never call and ask him to move funds. It felt Mr L had willingly sent his 
funds to a different account when he should have been more suspicious about what was 
going on.  
Mr L did not wish to accept the partial offer and our Investigator was not persuaded by 
ClearBanks points. She still thought it was reasonable for Mr L to do as hed been asked 
given the pressure he was under and the coaching he received from the fraudster. She 
pointed out Mr L had scanned the QR Code so many times because it wasnt working, which 
did not concern him as he thought he was dealing with the genuine firm. ClearBank 
disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an Ombudsman, so the complaint 
has now been referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite what ClearBank has said and provided, I think ClearBank 
should refund all of the money C lost to the scam (along with interest to recognise that C has 
been deprived of that money).
Theres no dispute that Mr L authorised both of the disputed payments on behalf of C. So, 
although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of the account, C is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. But the matter doesn't end there.
Ive noted ClearBanks comments about the level of responsibility and autonomy it expects 
of its exclusively business clients with regard to their ability to make informed decisions with 
their funds. But, importantly, ClearBank also agrees that it should be on the lookout for, and 
helping to prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. I accept a 
balance must be struck between identifying payments that may indicate a customer is 
potentially at risk of financial harm  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  
and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. 
ClearBank has already acknowledged that its transaction monitoring system did not 
accurately recognise the risk in Mr Ls transactions. It took account of our Investigators 
comments that the situation bore the hallmarks of a scam. The transactions were 
significantly higher than any other payments C had made before. They rapidly depleted the 
available balance and the actual account name didnt match the account name that Mr L had 
entered. So I agree that ClearBank should have spotted these signs and contacted Mr L to 
ask some appropriate questions. Had it done so, I see no reason why it would not have been 
able to uncover the scam and prevent Cs losses. 
Whilst ClearBank agrees it should have done more, it also thinks Mr L should share some 
responsibility for the loss. Ive thought about whether Mr Ls actions or inactions fell below 
the standard expected of a reasonable person. Having done so, Im not persuaded that he is 
partly to blame for falling for the fraudsters story. I can understand why he accepted what he 
was being told. I dont consider ClearBank has placed appropriate weight on the 
environment the fraudster was able to create. 
A spoofed number is a very powerful confidence trick. In addition to this, the way in which 
the fraudster was able to integrate Tides legitimate processes and procedures into the scam 
was masterful and totally disarmed Mr L. Hes explained he was convinced he was speaking 
to the genuine firm, and I dont think he ought to have realised that he wasnt. ClearBank has 
highlighted the number of times that Mr L scanned the QR Code as a strong indicator that 
something was amiss. Its also pointed out the wording of the one-time passcode text covered exactly the situation Mr L was in. But I dont think these things are enough to 
demonstrate that Mr Ls actions in the situation were not plausible. Mr L has explained that 
at the time he didnt think anything of the QR Code not working. Im mindful that the 
fraudsters demeanour and ability to replicate genuine processes and procedures had the 
effect that what was happening to Mr L didnt really register to him as being potentially 
fraudulent. Mr L has explained that his actions were driven by his desire to protect his funds. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Mr L acted unreasonably. I think he has done what a 
reasonable person would have done in the same situation. As such, I dont think it is fair to 
conclude that C should share liability with ClearBank for its losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct ClearBank Limited to:
Reimburse Cs full loss of £18,995.13. This includes the £0.60p in transaction fees C 
was charged
Pay interest on the above refund calculated at 8% simple per year (less any tax 
properly deductible*) from 3 September 2022 to the date of settlement. 
*If ClearBank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest award, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also 
provide a tax deduction certificate if Mr L asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
ClearBank Limited should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of the 
acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision on Cs behalf before 9 August 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman