DRN-2804696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that London Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy for storm damage and with the way it handled the 
claim.
What happened
At the end of August 2020 Mr and Mrs R made a claim to LV after a section of the stone 
retaining wall in their back garden collapsed following a rain storm.
LV sent an assessor to inspect the damage. Mr R says the assessor gave him the clear 
impression the claim would be accepted.
However in September 2020 LV declined the claim. Its assessor thought the storm hadnt 
caused the damage but it had highlighted issues with the wall being in poor condition. Mr R 
pointed out some inaccuracies in the assessors report.
Mr R complained to LV about the claim being declined and the fact that it had taken about a 
month after the inspection to reach a decision. He sent evidence from his builder that the 
damage had been caused by the storm. LV continued to decline the claim but offered £200 
compensation for the delay. It didnt accept that Mr R had been misled into thinking his claim 
would be accepted.
Mr R said that as a result of delay in repairing the original damage a further section of wall 
had collapsed.
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think LV had treated them unfairly. As Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, the matter has been 
referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
LV agreed that there were storm conditions around the time that the damage occurred. I 
understand that there were torrential rain and high winds in the local area around the 
relevant time.
Regarding the second question, retaining walls often do fail during but not necessarily 
because of a storm.
In deciding whether the storm was the main cause of the damage, I usually rely on expert 
evidence. In this case Mr Rs builder said the wall had collapsed due to excessive water 
pressure after a period of heavy rain. He said: 
Looking at the debris there is no evidence of any ivy within the mortar joints to weaken the 
structure of the wall.
The existing fence posts are still standing so would not have had an influence on the wall 
collapsing, they would have also collapsed if this was the case.
The newer section of the wall which collapsed at an earlier date has solid mortar joints & 
many pieces are still bonded together.
LVs assessor reported:
I believe  the recent  storms  have  highlighted  issues  with the wall being  in poor 
condition.  The wall is old and of dry stone  and earth,  lacking  sufficient  pointing,  has ivy 
and weeds  etc growing  through  it, is leaning  over towards  the garden,  shows  no signs  
of maintenance...
Mr R pointed out some mistakes in the assessors report. For example, the assessor 
referred to the height of the wall as being about three metres when it was more like one 
metre. Mr R also said there was hardly any ivy on this section of wall and hed repointed it 
himself. The assessor also thought metal fence posts behind the wall might have loosened 
the earth and weakened the structure of the wall. Mr R provided evidence from the fencing 
company that the fence posts hadnt contributed to the collapse of the wall. Since the fence 
posts were still standing after the wall had collapsed, I agree that they were unlikely to be a 
contributing factor. I think the photos support the points which Mr R has made and the 
description of the wall by Mr Rs builder. Bearing in mind the various inaccuracies Im not 
going to place a lot of weight on the assessors report.
LV arranged for a technical expert to review the evidence, including photos of the wall. He 
explained that the wall had been built with two skins of stones and a gap between them. 
From looking at a photo of the debris from the collapsed section of wall, he thought a lot of 
soil had settled in the gap, causing it to become blocked. He said the soil would hold water 
which would in turn build up pressure between the two skins of the wall. He noted that there 
were no weep holes along any section of wall (standing or collapsed) which would have 
allowed water in the soil to drain away.
The expert noted that the outer face of the wall had fallen down but the retaining side was 
intact. This suggested to him that the soil behind the wall hadnt moved recently. He also 
pointed out that plants growing on top of the wall hadnt been washed away. So the soil in 
the gap hadnt been washed in there by the heavy rain during the storm. He concluded that 
the wall had collapsed due to a combination of factors that had built up over time. He didnt 
think that heavy rain on its own had caused the damage.
Having considered the various findings, I find the report of LVs technical expert the most 
persuasive. Thats because he explained things clearly by reference to the photos of the 
damage. Walls may stand for many years, as Mr and Mrs R's wall apparently did, with only a 
marginal factor of safety. But slowly the factor of safety may be eroded. Unfortunately retaining walls often fail during a storm but with the storm being the occasion of the failure 
rather than the cause. I think its likely the heavy rain highlighted the poor condition of the 
wall rather than causing it to collapse.
My conclusion is that LVs decision not to settle Mr and Mrs Rs claim for storm damage on 
the ground that the damage happened gradually was fair and reasonable.
Ive also looked at how LV handled the claim. I can see it took just over a month to decline 
the claim. Within a short time there was another storm after which more of the wall 
collapsed. Mr R accepts that in any event they would have had to rebuild the leaning section 
of wall that was still standing. But he thinks if LV had told them sooner that it wasnt going to 
accept the claim, the repair could have been done in a more orderly manner and at less cost 
before more of it collapsed. 
I agree that LV should have let Mr and Mrs R know the outcome of their claim a little sooner 
than it did. But I think its likely even if LV had let them know within, say, two weeks, it would 
have taken more than a further two weeks to obtain a quote from a builder and for a builder 
to rebuild the wall. I appreciate that the delay was frustrating for Mr and Mrs R but I think the 
amount of £200 offered by LV on account of this was fair and reasonable to compensate 
them for the trouble and upset it had caused. Im not persuaded theyve suffered a financial 
loss directly as a result of the delay.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman