DRN-1405644
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that she was robbed in a branch of HSBC UK Bank Plc. She thinks that 
HSBC should reimburse her for the stolen money, but it wont do that.
What happened
Miss P said she went into a branch of HSBC to pay £7,000 into her current account. She 
said while she was filling in the form, she took out the envelope with the money in, and 
placed it on the counter next to her. Miss P said the man behind her took the envelope, 
pushed her to the floor and ran out of the bank. She screamed, and chased him, but he 
assaulted her and got away. 
Miss P thinks HSBC should pay her back the money that was stolen, because the theft 
happened in its branch. She said HSBC should have more security in its branch. 
HSBC said this happened in the public space in its banking hall. It didnt think there was 
anything it could have done to prevent this. And it didnt think it was responsible for actions 
of members of the public. HSBC cooperated fully with the police investigation, but it wouldnt 
pay Miss P the money shed lost. It offered her £200 as a gesture, but Miss P didnt want 
that. So HSBC sent gifts and a message apologising for the horrible experience shed had.
Miss P said HSBC might be able legally to refuse to reimburse her, but she really thought 
that it should do so. She said it was a terrifying experience, and no one in the branch had 
tried to help her. Miss P said shed been a loyal customer for many years, but she would 
close her account if HSBC wouldnt reimburse her. She sent us a letter setting out in detail 
what had happened when she was robbed.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged how 
upsetting this must have been for Miss P. But she didnt think she could ask HSBC to do 
anything. She thought the cause of Miss Ps loss was criminal activity beyond the 
reasonable control of HSBC. It wasnt something HSBC did or didnt do. She could 
understand why Miss P would say that there should be more security, but our investigator 
said that where members of the public can walk in off the street, the bank couldnt 
realistically police entry to its premises. She thought the same thing could still have 
happened if there was security on the door. Our investigator said that HSBC had cooperated 
with the police investigation, and had offered Miss P a goodwill gesture. She didnt think it 
had to do any more. 
Miss P disagreed. She said the bank was responsible for keeping its premises secure, and if 
there had been security on the door, the robber wouldnt have been able to just walk out. 
Our investigator still didnt think it was HSBCs responsibility to have security staff, and the 
robbery couldve happened anyway. Because she and Miss P didnt agree, the case came to 
me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think our service could ask HSBC to pay Miss P the money that was 
stolen. Im sorry to have to tell Miss P that I agree with that, and for broadly the same 
reasons. The branch is open to the general public. Anyone can come inside. Additional 
security measures might be able to reduce the risk of robbery in a branch but they cant 
eliminate it altogether. 
Miss P wanted me to advocate for her, and contact HSBC to ask it to make a gesture of 
goodwill. But thats not our role. Im part of an independent and impartial service. I have to 
look at both sides of the case and tell the parties what I think.
Its my role to make sure that the outcomes to complaints brought to our service are fair and 
reasonable. I dont think I can say that the decisions HSBC has taken over physical security 
in its branches are unfair or unreasonable. And similarly, I cant say that HSBCs refusal to 
reimburse Miss P for the money that was stolen was unfair or unreasonable. 
I understand that Miss P has had a deeply unpleasant and frightening experience. And I 
recognise her disappointment that no one in the branch stepped forward to help her. But Im 
sorry to have to tell Miss P that I cant insist that HSBC increases its security, or that staff 
members put themselves at risk to help her. And, because I dont think that HSBC has been 
unfair or unreasonable, I cant ask it to do more than it has done already. 
I know Miss P will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman