DRN-3128010
The complaint
Miss G has complained about the refunds she received from Lifesure Group Limited after
cancelling landlord insurance policies, in particular the amount of commission it retained.  
What happened
In December 2017, Miss G bought a residential landlord policy (policy one) through Lifesure.
As her tenant went to work abroad, Miss G cancelled this policy in October 2018 and took
out a policy for an unoccupied property (policy two). When Miss Gs tenant returned from
abroad, she cancelled policy two and bought another residential landlord policy (policy
three).
Miss G complained to Lifesure as she was unhappy with the refund she received when
cancelling the policies. She thought the cancellation fees were unclear and she didnt think it
was fair that it was able to retain commission when she hadnt been informed how much she
would be charged when buying the policies. She also said she hadnt received the refund
shed been promised when cancelling policy three.
Lifesure said Miss G had paid the following:
Policy one
£163.32 original premium
 £25 set-up fee
£25 cancellation fee
 £57 non-refundable legal policy
Lifesure said it had refunded £34.37 after deducting the £25 cancellation fee and
commission.
Policy two
£266.16 original premium
Lifesure said it hadnt charged a set-up fee for this policy and had also waived any
commission and cancellation fees as Miss G took out a new policy.
Policy three
£134.40 original premium
£27.50 set-up fee
£27.50 cancellation fee
£57 non-refundable legal policy
Lifesure said it had refunded £41.31 after deducting a £27.50 cancellation fee and
commission.
Miss G brought her complaint to our service. She said she had since received the refund for
policy three and Lifesure had also now waived the set-up fee of £27.50 for the same policy.
Lifesure said its terms of business set out the fees that would be charged and that it also set
out that any commission earned would be charged if the policy was cancelled.
Our investigator looked into Miss Gs complaint and recommended that Lifesure refund the
commission it had retained when the policy was cancelled. He didnt think it was fair and
reasonable for Lifesure to have clawed back commission when it hadnt let Miss G know how
much it would keep if the policy was cancelled. However, he thought Lifesure had made the
cancellation fees clear when selling policy two, so he didnt think the cancellation fee for
policy one needed to be refunded, as he thought it would likely have also been clear during
the sale of policy one.
Lifesure didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it relies heavily on
commission to cover the costs involved in selling the policy and it made it clear within its
terms of business that commission would be retained. Lifesure added that it isnt required to
disclose the amount of commission however, it let Miss G know that she was entitled to
request details about the commission it received.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 October 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will comment on each policy in turn.
Policy one
The administrative tasks of setting up and cancelling policies do incur costs for Lifesure. I
think its fair for it to charge a reasonable amount for these as long as they were made clear
to Miss G when she bought the policy.
Ive listened to the sales call between Lifesure and Miss G from 2017. In that call Lifesure
told Miss G that there was a set-up fee of £25, so I think it made this clear. I also dont find
£25 an unreasonable amount for this task, so I think its fair and reasonable for Lifesure to
charge this.
During the call, Lifesure asked Miss G if she wanted the terms and conditions read out or
whether she was happy to read the documents when they were sent out. Miss G confirmed
she would read the documents. Ive seen a copy of the terms of business from the time of
this sale and these set out that there would be a cancellation fee of £25. Im not going to
require Lifesure to refund this as I think this is a reasonable charge for the administrative
cost involved in cancelling the policy and it was made clear when the policy was sold.
The refund of the insurance premium itself is the responsibility of the insurer, so I cant
comment on that in this decision. I also cant comment on the decision of the legal expenses
policy insurer to not refund the premium. However, I have considered whether Lifesure made
it clear that the legal expenses policy was non-refundable. I can see that the terms of
business set out that legal expenses policies arent refundable and as Miss G said she
preferred to have the terms to read, rather than being read out to her over the phone, Im
satisfied Lifesure made that clear.
Ive seen Lifesures terms of business and while the terms say that commission will be
retained, they dont say how much that will be, or give a percentage so the policyholder can
work it out.
I appreciate that Lifesure relies on commission to cover the costs involved in selling thepolicy. However, I only think its fair and reasonable for a broker to keep commission when it
made it clear to the policyholder how much commission would be charged in the event the
policy is cancelled. Thats because Lifesure has to ensure it treats its customers fairly and
provides information thats clear, fair and not misleading. While the Insurance Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) doesnt require a broker to disclose the amount of
commission to a consumer, and not to a commercial customer unless its asked, I dont think
its fair and reasonable for a broker to claw back that commission if the policy is cancelled
when it didnt let the policyholder know what that cost would be when it sold the policy.
As Miss G wasnt aware of the amount of commission that would be retained when entering
into the contract with Lifesure, I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to be retained upon
cancellation. It follows that I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Lifesure to refund
any commission it clawed back on policy one.
As Miss G has been without money she should have had Lifesure should add interest to that
amount at 8% simple per year from the date she cancelled policy one to the date it makes
payment.
Policy two
This policy has already been refunded in full, so I dont need to comment on it further.
Policy three
Lifesure hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording for the sale of policy three
however, its provided a copy of its sales script. The script includes details of the set-up fee
which is to be charged, so I think its most likely the set-up fee was explained to Miss G
during the sale of the policy. Again, I dont find the charge an unreasonable amount to cover
the administrative cost of setting up the policy, so I dont intend to require Lifesure to refund
this.
I can also see that the sales script says that the legal expenses policy is non-refundable, so I
think its most likely this was also explained to Miss G.
Im pleased to see that Lifesure has already agreed to refund the £27.50 cancellation charge
as it couldnt find any confirmation of the amount that would be charged in the documents
sent to Miss G after the sale of the policy.
I dont however think its fair and reasonable for Lifesure to retain the commission it clawed
back for policy three for the same reasons as for policy one. Therefore, I think the fair and
reasonable outcome is for Lifesure to refund the commission it clawed back, plus interest at
8% simple.
Lifesure accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comments. It 
confirmed that the commission that had been charged was £9.37 on policy one and £29.49 
on policy three.
Miss G asked to be informed of the amount of commission Lifesure had received for each 
policy. Our investigator passed this information to Miss G. Miss G also said that the sale of 
policy three had been by email so Lifesure couldnt have explained the set up fee in the 
sales script. She also asked that Lifesure face a penalty such as the cost of her or our 
services time due to not providing clear information.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has confirmed that the sale of policy three took place over email, so I therefore dont 
think the sales script is relevant. Lifesure hasnt provided anything to show it made the set 
up and legal fees clear when she took out the policy. However, as Miss G had taken out two 
previous policies on the same basis, I dont think its likely that she would have done 
anything differently in the case of the third. So, Im not going to require Lifesure to do 
anything further here. 
Its not for me to impose a penalty on Lifesure, instead I consider the impact of individual 
complaints. While I accept there has been some level of inconvenience to Miss G, I dont 
think thats enough to warrant awarding additional compensation and Im satisfied that 
refunding the commission remains the fair and reasonable outcome in this particular case. 
Lifesure has confirmed that the total commission charged for policies one and three was 
£38.86. Therefore, this is the amount that Lifesure should pay to Miss G, plus interest on that 
amount at a rate of 8% simple per year, from the date the policies were cancelled to the date 
it makes payment due to the time Miss G was without money she should have had. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Lifesure Group Limited to refund Miss G £38.86 as the commission it clawed back on 
policies one and three, plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per year, from the date the 
policies were cancelled to the date it makes payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman