DRN-4287580
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Mr S took out with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Hes 
unhappy that delays, error and omissions on HSBCs part resulted in him paying more for 
the property than originally agreed, and caused him a high degree of stress and worry. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr S and HSBC; theyve been set 
out in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the investigator issued 
several detailed responses to the complaint all of which have been shared with all parties, 
and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt a decision where I have to decide fault; HSBC had admitted mistakes and has 
offered significant compensation. What I do have to decide is whether HSBSs offer is 
sufficient, or should be increased.
There are two broad strands to the redress in Mr S case: 
the financial loss, which is self-explanatory, and 
the non-financial loss, which typically covers the distress element; i.e. time, trouble and 
upset.
Ill deal with the latter first. Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go 
wrong in such a complex transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and 
inconvenience is to be expected. But the problems with this case, and the levels of stress 
they generated, were greater what might be regarded as normal for or expected for such a 
transaction. 
The sum HSBC has offered Mr S, indeed has paid him already, is £3,600. Looked at in 
isolation, thats a substantial sum; it certainly falls into the higher than average range of 
awards we typically make. But here, in the specific circumstances that apply here, I think its 
justified. Mr S has talked with commendable frankness about how his personal situation has 
been affected. 
I dont reveal the details here, out of respect for his privacy; Mr also S makes the point that 
the stress hes experienced is ongoing, and I respect that. But even factoring that it, Im 
persuaded that £3,600 is justified, and am glad HSBC made a realistic offer of compensation 
in its response to the complaint. That doesnt always happen.
Deciding on fair redress for the financial loss element is a bit more involved. When 
assessing the impact of the delay, I have to consider not just the duration of it, but also how 
much of it is attributable to things that HSBC did, or didnt do. 
Mr S has taken particular exception to HSBCs decision to insist on a UK Disclosure of 
Incentives Form (DIF) being provided by the seller of the property Mr S was buying. He 
thinks it was unnecessary, and course, hes perfectly entitled to that view. Ultimately though, 
this was an underwriting decision, a matter of commercial judgement, that was HSBCs to 
make. 
Every lenders appetite for risk is different, and if HSBC judged that a DIF was necessary, 
I dont think there are grounds for me to second guess that judgement or deem it unfair. In 
reaching it, HSBC relied on the expert opinion of the surveyor who valued the property, and 
I have no remit to consider whether the surveyors opinion was incorrectly drawn. All I can 
conclude is that HSBC could reasonably rely on it. This process alone added around two 
months to the transaction, but as I dont think HSBC was wrong to invoke it, I cant hold 
HSBC liable for this element of the delay.
The mortgage offer HSBC issued in March 2022 was ambiguous about its expiry date. 
However, the bank remedied that by issuing a new offer on the same terms, which is what 
Id expect it to do in such circumstances. 
A more difficult error to remedy was HSBCs mis-communication over the gift Mr S was 
receiving towards the purchase. Firstly, HSBC said the gift was unacceptable when in reality 
it was acceptable. HSBC then compounded the problem by emailing both the incorrect and 
the amended responses to the wrong email address. 
The upshot of all this was that Mr S seller increased the purchase price by £59,000, and 
Mr S agreed to pay it. HSBC has accepted it was responsible for delays that led to the 
increase, and has offered redress for that. It didnt agree to pay the extra £59,000 Mr S paid, 
on the premise that he could have negotiated with the seller. Instead, HSBC calculated a 
sum by reference to the UK House Price Index. Based on what it had identified as 55 days 
delay on its part (something Mr S also disputes  he thinks the delay was longer) HSBC paid 
Mr S £15,015.
Our investigator thought it more appropriate to take the price increase as a starting point, but 
to hold HSBC liable for half of that  i.e. £29,500  on the grounds that there were other 
contributory delays outside its control. Mr S sees that as arbitrary, but I view more in terms of 
judging what is fair across the piece. 
It wouldnt be fair, in my view, to base redress on the basis that Mr S should have negotiated 
terms with his seller by reference to house price indices; that would be to assume he had 
equal bargaining power and perfect knowledge of the market. Certainly, the index 
information HSBC used would not have been available to Mr S at that point, as these 
mechanisms are not updated in the moment. Not every complaint has a perfect solution, and here overall I think the investigators 
approach of using the actual increase as the starting point and then apportioning, is the best 
one for the circumstances.
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Ive concluded that 
£29,500, less the £15,015 already paid, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This 
approach, which HSBC has agreed to abide by, has the additional virtue of taking the 
precise number of days by which specific errors or omissions by HSBC should be deemed to 
delayed the completion out of the equation. I say that because some of the additional time 
Mr S has cited as being attributable to HSBC was concurrent with the issue over the DIF so 
wouldnt have been material in any event.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr S. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as he has been 
here. 
But I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the 
fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable and pragmatic in all the 
overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to 
every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall 
outcome. 
Mr S doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt neither he nor HSBC will be 
bound by it. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr S right 
to take legal action against HSBC over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been 
prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint. Given the sums involved, if hes 
contemplating taking this route, Mr S might wish to consider seeking legal advice first. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Plc should settle this complaint fully and finally by paying 
Mr S £29,500, less £15,015 already paid, making £14,485 in all. I make no other order or 
award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman