DRN-4207493
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Rock Insurance Services Limited made an error with their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a single trip travel insurance policy, sold by Rock Insurance and 
underwritten by a company I will refer to as Insurer X. 
They had been intending to travel to country A in August 2021, but their plans changed due 
to Covid-19 and they had to cancel. They decided to book a new holiday travelling to country 
B, a year later in August 2022. They contacted Rock Insurance to ask if their insurance 
policy could be amended to cover their new holiday.  And Rock Insurance agreed to make 
changes to the policy. 
Rock Insurance sent Mr and Mrs B a confirmation showing the trip dates had been 
amended, but the destination country was still shown as country A.
Shortly before their trip was due to start in August 2022, Mr and Mrs B said they downloaded 
their insurance documents, and noticed that the country they were covered to travel to was 
still shown as country A, so had not been updated. And they emailed Rock Insurance about 
this. 
Mr and Mrs B said they didnt get a response to their email, other than an automated 
acknowledgement which said they would get a reply within two working days. They said they 
also tried calling, but their calls were not answered after waiting for over an hour each time. 
And on one occasion when calling in the morning, they said a recorded message told them 
the line was being closed due to the volume of calls. 
Mr and Mrs B said on the morning of the day they were due to travel, having still had no 
response from Rock Insurance to their email, and having been unable to make contact by 
phone, they took out another travel insurance policy elsewhere, as they wanted to ensure 
they had cover for their trip.
After returning from their holiday, Mr and Mrs B made a complaint. They received 
acknowledgements from Rock Insurance, but no answer, so they brought their complaint to 
this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought the complaint 
should be upheld and the premium refunded, with interest. Plus £100 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted the investigators view. However, Rock Insurance didnt reply. As 
Rock Insurance did not respond to accept or reject the view, the case has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Rock Insurance must 
act fairly and professionally. 
Ive reviewed the emails between Mr and Mrs B and Rock Insurance from 2021, when they 
got in touch about amending their policy. Rock Insurance agreed to make changes and Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs B clearly stated the destination of their trip was changing from country 
A to country B, as well as the dates of the trip. 
Rock Insurance responded asking about any changes in health and once this was 
completed, it confirmed there was no change to the cost of the insurance and sent a 
confirmation showing the new dates. However, the destination country was still country A. 
It seems clear to me that Rock Insurance made an error in overlooking the part of Mr and 
Mrs Bs request about the change in their destination, and only amended the dates of the 
policy. The new documents it issued to Mr and Mrs B still showed country A, and the 
consumers did not raise this at the time. They said they didnt notice this until shortly before 
their trip.
Ive thought carefully about this, and although Im satisfied Rock Insurance made an error, I 
also think Mr and Mrs B had a responsibility to check their policy was correct and matched 
what they had asked for. And Id reasonably expect them to notify the broker if this was 
incorrect. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted Rock Insurance once they say they spotted the error, but got no 
response. And they used email as well as making several attempts to get in touch by phone. 
Theyve provided an itemised phone bill which shows seven calls to Rock Insurance in July 
2022. Two of these calls lasted more than an hour, and Mr and Mrs B say they were just on 
hold and their calls were unanswered. Rock Insurance has provided no evidence to the 
contrary, so I accept what Mr and Mrs B have said. And I dont think there is any more they 
could reasonably have been expected to do in the circumstances. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt receive any response from Rock Insurance by email or phone by the 
morning of their departure, I think its reasonable that they sought an alternative policy to 
ensure they were covered. Because of this, Im satisfied that Insurer X was not on risk for 
their trip. Firstly, because they had obtained alternative cover which they could have relied 
on in the event of a claim and secondly, because their policy with Insurer X was most likely 
invalid, due to the incorrect destination county recorded by Rock Insurance. 
Putting things right
In in these particular circumstances, Rock Insurance should provide Mr and Mrs B with a 
refund of the policy premium they paid, together with interest. The destination country was 
incorrect because of Rock Insurances error, I dont think the insurer was on risk from the 
point the trip dates were amended. And so I dont think it is fair that the premiums have been 
retained. 
I also agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs B should be paid £100 for the overall 
inconvenience caused to them by the error and being unable to get in touch with Rock 
Insurance to rectify the problem, as well as having to obtain another policy to ensure they 
had cover. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Rock 
Insurance Services Limited to do the following: 
pay Mr and Mrs B £59.49 which is the premium they paid for the insurance policy;
add interest to the refund amount at 8% from 22 July 2022, which is when Mr and 
Mrs B first attempted to contact Rock Insurance about the error, until the date of 
settlement; and
pay £100 for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
Rock Insurance Services Limited must make payment within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs B accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 
8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman