DRN-4375922
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun 
Life Financial of Canada (Sun Life) hasnt increased her annuity payments correctly. Sun 
Life said itd only been able to legally increase her annuity income by 5% each year after a 
2006 legislation change. And that before this date, it could only increase the pension by the 
greater of 3% or RPI each year. Mrs B considers that the 2006 legislation change should be 
retroactively applied back to 1992.
Mrs B is represented in her complaint. But Ill only refer to her in my decision.
The annuity policy at the heart of this complaint was purchased from a business which is 
now part of Sun Life. So its responsible for the complaint. And Ill only refer to it in my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs B purchased a Sun Life annuity in 1992. The documentation issued at the time 
confirmed a 5% annual escalation rate. It was signed and dated by Mrs B on 13 February 
1992.
The policy documents showed that Mrs Bs Maximum Annuity Amount, under Inland 
Revenue (IR) restrictions in place at that time, was £4,266.67 each year. And that this would 
be increased over time with reference to the rise in the Retail Prices Index (RPI): 
The Maximum Annuity Amount on any one Increase Date shall be £4,266.72 per annum 
increased by the proportional rise in the Index of Retail Prices for the period from the Base 
RPI Month to the RPI Month immediately preceding that Increase Date.
The Increase Date was defined as: any date at yearly intervals from the 1 April 1992. And 
the Base RPI Month for the policy was set as February 1992, with the RPI Month being 
February. 
IR limits at the time the annuity was purchased restricted increases on pensions in payment 
to the greater of 3% or the increase in the RPI.
The policy documents also stated:
On any Increase Date the amount of annuity per annum payable shall be the lower of the 
amount payable in accordance with the Escalation provision and the Maximum Annuity 
Amount on that Increase Date.
The Escalation provision stated:
The amount stated within this policy will increase on each anniversary at a rate of 5% per 
annum.
The annuity policy also contained a provision, from when the policy was set up, as follows:
Provision forming part of the policy to which it is attached
Annuity Escalation Restriction - The annuity shall increase in accordance with the 
Escalation provision of this policy, except that, at the request of the Owner by written notice 
prior to the date of any increase in the amount of annuity, this annuity to be payable on that 
increase date shall be restricted to such amount as prescribed by that notice and any 
subsequent increase in the amount of annuity, as prescribed within the Escalation 
provision, after such a restriction shall apply to that restricted amount of annuity.
Therefore, although the policy specified that the annuity would increase at 5% each year, it 
required the increase to be restricted by the Maximum Annuity Amount. And also required 
any subsequent increase to the annuity to be applied to the restricted amount of annuity.
Sun Life wrote to Mrs B about the annuity purchase on 13 April 1992. It sent her its net 
cheque for £457.21. This was based on pre-tax payments of £163.18 for the period from 18 
to 31 March 1992 and £354.53 for the month of April 1992. The letter said that subsequent 
monthly payments would be paid directly into Mrs Bs bank account. 
Sun Life wrote to Mrs B, through her financial adviser, on 20 July 1994. It said that the 
annuity would have a restriction applied as it couldnt increase by more than the RPI 
because Mrs B was on IR maximum benefits. It said the current level was £369.43 per 
month. It asked Mrs Bs IFA to ensure it agreed with its action. 
Sun Life also said that it had developed a contract that specifically addressed the issue of 
restrictions and future payments should the level of RPI increase. It said that under that 
contract, it would continue to restrict the pension, but if the RPI increased to a level above 
the chosen escalation rate it would pay above that rate (but not an amount greater than the 
RPI amount) in an attempt to catch-up the annuity to a level it couldve been had no 
restriction occurred. It said if Mrs B agreed it would amend the contract to the basis 
described and issue the appropriate endorsement. 
Mrs B signed and dated her acceptance of the new contract on 16 August 1994. And on 23 
August 1994, her IFA sent her agreement to Sun Life, stating she wished to alter her 
pension as outlined. 
On 28 August 2008, Sun Life wrote to Mrs B. It said that new legislation, known as pension 
simplification, had come into force from April 2006. This removed the cap on pension 
increases. So it said it would now be allowed to increase her pension by 5% each year going 
forward. 
Sun Life also said that itd found an error that affected the way itd paid her pension in the 
past. It said that before 6 April 2006, increases to Mrs Bs pension had been restricted to the 
greater of 3% and RPI. But that when the RPI had been less than 3% in the 1990s, it had 
increased her pension by less than 3% in error. 
Sun Life apologised and carried out a loss calculation. To put things right, it paid Mrs B the 
additional pension she shouldve received - £1,756.38 net of tax, plus £362.64 net of tax in 
interest. It said that the annual annuity payment with effect from 1 April 2007 would be 
£6,841.96 and from 1 April 2008 it would be £7,184.05. 
On 21 November 2022, Mrs Bs representative called Sun Life to ask for a copy of her 
original policy. He also asked for statements showing all payments since the start date. He 
emailed Sun Life on 28 November 2022 with the same request. And for any subsequent 
changes to the policy, with the dates those changes were agreed. He said Mrs B had been 
under the impression that the pension was to increase at 5% each year, but it hadnt, so he wanted to know why. He asked Sun Life to let him know when it would be able to provide 
him with the information he needed.
Mrs Bs representative chased Sun Life for a response on 8 December 2022. On 12 
December 2022, he called Sun Life for an update. He then emailed it to say he was still 
waiting for his request to be met. 
Sun Life sent Mrs Bs representative a holding email on 13 December 2022. And said sorry 
for the delay in replying. It said itd requested a copy of the paperwork and that it would 
contact him when it had an update. 
Mrs Bs representative chased Sun Life again on 15 December 2022. It acknowledged his 
complaint on 16 December 2022. 
Mrs Bs representative wrote again to Sun Life on 21 December 2022. He said he wasnt 
clear when hed receive a copy of Mrs Bs pension contract, despite having asked for it on 21 
November 2022. He clarified his complaint as follows:
- Itd taken Sun Life too long to provide the requested policy document.
- Sun Life hadnt told Mrs Bs representative when he might get the document. 
- He was concerned that Mrs Bs pension hadnt increased as it shouldve done. 
On 21 December 2022, Sun Lifes complaints department called Mrs Bs representative. It 
apologised that it hadnt yet covered off all of his complaint points. And said that itd received 
some documentation that day which was being reviewed. Sun Life wrote to Mrs Bs 
representative the same day with the policy documentation. It said this confirmed that it 
increased by 5% on 1 April each year.
Sun Life also said that an arrears payment of £1,756.38 net of tax had been paid on 26 
August 2008 in respect of an underpayment made in previous years. And that a further net 
payment of £362.64 had been paid on 1 September 2008 in respect of interest due.
Mrs Bs representative wrote to Sun Life again on 28 December 2022. He said that the policy 
documentation showed the starting value of the pension and that it would increase at 5% 
each year. He calculated that an annual pension of £17,465.09 shouldve been paid after 29 
years escalation at 5%. But that Sun Lifes information showed that only £13,603.12 was 
paid at that time. He wanted Sun Life to make up the shortfall and correct the annual 
payments going forward.
Mrs Bs representative also said he wasnt clear what the arrears payments Sun Life had 
mentioned were in respect of. And asked it to provide a list of annual gross payments since 
the start of the policy.
Sun Life said it tried unsuccessfully to call Mrs Bs representative on 6 January 2023. And on 
12 January 2023 it emailed him to say it was still investigating the complaint. 
On 17 January 2023, Mrs Bs representative wrote to Sun Life again to chase a response to 
his complaint. He said he accepted that recent increases had been at the rate of 5%. But 
that his concern was that Mrs Bs pension hadnt increased in line with the policy 
documentation. He said that another of Mrs Bs pensions, which started at a similar time to 
this pension, had been paid in line with an increase of 5% each year from the start of the 
pension.Sun Life called Mrs Bs representative on 24 January 2023. It told him it was waiting for 
information from a different area about the payments from 1992 to 2000. It called him again 
on 31 January 2023 to tell him it was still waiting the figures.
Mrs Bs representative wrote to Sun Life on 31 January 2023. He said there were two issues, 
which he summarised as follows: 
- Sun Life would provide him with an explanation about what increases shouldve been 
applied to the policy since the start. It had told him that there was a period of time 
when increases were limited to 3% by government regulation. And hed asked Sun 
Life to put in writing what specific period the reduction to 3% related to, the specific 
government regulations relied upon, and why the change in the law that was advised 
in 2006 shouldnt be backdated to the start of the policy. 
- He wanted Sun Life to provide an annual list of payments since the start of the policy. 
He understood it was having problems getting this information, but felt it didnt need 
to wait for it to address the first issue.
Mrs Bs representative called Sun Life again on 7 February 2023. Its complaints department 
returned his call. Sun Life told Mrs Bs representative that it was still waiting for, but was 
proactively chasing, the requested information. And that it would respond to him as soon as 
it could. Mrs Bs representative was very disappointed with the continued delay and with Sun 
Lifes approach. 
Sun Life sent Mrs Bs representative a holding email on 9 February 2023 as it said it was still 
investigating whatd happened. It apologised that this was taking longer than expected. But 
said it was committed to answering all of his points. It provided referral rights to this service.
Unhappy with Sun Lifes progress, Mrs Bs representative brought her complaint to this 
service on 13 February 2023. He wanted Sun Life to pay her the correct pension and make 
good any shortfall in previous years.
Our investigator asked Sun Life to provide its file for the complaint as soon as possible given 
Mrs B is a vulnerable consumer. Sun Life told this service that itd hadnt yet been able to 
provide its final response as the investigation was ongoing. It said some of the payments 
dated back to 1992 and had been paid by another of its offices, so it was working with them 
to retrieve the historic information it needed to provide a thorough and full response to the 
complaint. It also confirmed that the complaint was being treated as a priority, but given the 
complexity of the case, it was taking more time than it had hoped.
Sun Life issued its final response to the complaint on 11 April 2023. It apologised for the 
delay in responding to the complaint and queries. And offered £100 compensation. But it 
didnt consider that the annuity payments were incorrect. 
Sun Life said that pension simplification legislation, introduced in April 2006, had introduced 
a number of pension changes. One of the changes was to remove the cap on increases to 
pensions in payment. It said it had consulted legal counsel at the time and had been advised 
that its intended approach was appropriate given the legislative changes being implemented. 
So its customers had been placed in the correct financial position. 
Sun Life acknowledged that another of Mrs Bs pension providers had, following the 
legislation change in 2006, applied backdated elective increases to the start of her policy 
with them. But said it couldnt comment on the approach theyd taken. It said its approach 
was in line with the regulations at that time. And that the elected 5% increase couldnt be 
applied whilst the restrictions were in place. It said it had only been able to apply the elected 5% increases after the legislative change in 2006. It confirmed that the pension in payment 
reflected this approach. 
Mrs Bs representative said he wouldnt accept the £100 compensation offered. He replied to 
Sun Lifes final response letter. He made the following points:
- Sun Life hadnt said which increases had been applied each year to the policy since 
the start. 
- It hadnt provided the specific government regulation which it had relied on to reduce 
the annual increase. Or why the removal of the cap in 2006 shouldnt have been 
back dated to the start of the policy to provide the annuity that was actually 
purchased. He didnt think it was fair for Sun Life to refer to following advice at the 
time if it didnt know what that was or what it had done. So it couldnt know if the 
advice it said it had followed was correct. 
- He expected Sun Life to still have the information hed requested, as he expected it 
to hold on to pensions information for extended periods of time. 
- He still wanted a full response to the questions hed raised on 31 January 2023. 
Mrs Bs representative also made the following points to this service:
- Mrs B had purchased an annuity with a 5% escalation, but the payments hadnt been 
in line with that throughout the course of the policy. Mrs Bs representative felt that 
the correct payments from now on, based on a 5% escalation, could be worked out 
from the annuity paid from the start and then applying a 5% escalation over the 
intervening period. 
- He didnt agree with Sun Life that government legislation didnt allow the correct 
payments to be made now. He said other annuities from the same time had 
increased at 5% from the start.
- He said Mrs Bs care costs were no longer covered by her pensions. And that the 
delayed response to his complaint didnt help. 
Mrs Bs representative asked this service to continue its investigation on her behalf. He felt 
that Sun Life was avoiding dealing with the issue. He wanted it to provide him with the 
specific government regulation itd relied on and how it had applied it to the policy, so he 
could check whether it had been done correctly. 
Sun Life gave this service permission to consider the complaint. 
Our investigator issued her view on the complaint on 24 July 2023. She felt that Sun Life had 
acted fairly and in line with the law at the time. So she didnt think it should do anything 
further. 
On 10 August 2023, our investigator shared a copy of the 1994 letter Sun Life had sent Mrs 
Bs IFA with Mrs Bs representative. 
Mrs Bs representative didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
- The paperwork connected with the purchase of the annuity clearly showed that the 
rate of escalation was 5%. So he felt it was clear that Mrs B had entered into a 
contract to receive an annuity paying a 5% escalation.- The July 1994 letter to Mrs Bs IFA had said that although an annuity with an 
escalation rate of 5% had been purchased, it wasnt possible to pay out the full 
amount because Mrs B was on Revenue Maximum benefits. He understood that the 
rate of escalation was restricted from then until 2006 to 3% or RPI which ever was 
greater.
- But the law changed in 2006 to remove the restriction on the amount of the annuity 
that could be paid. So he felt Sun Life should pay out a pension from 2006 onwards 
that represented a 5% escalation since the start in 1992. He said that although our 
investigator said it would be against the law for Sun Life to do so, she hadnt 
referenced any law. And Sun Life had also been unable to provide any reason why it 
wasnt paying out the annuity as purchased, despite stating it had taken advice at the 
time. He said that as a different pension provider had agreed to pay 5% escalation 
retrospectively, he felt the evidence showed that it wasnt against the law to pay out 
the full value of the annuity for 2006 onwards.
- Mrs Bs representative felt that all payments since 2006 had been about 22% lower 
than the annuity value. To resolve the complaint, he wanted Sun Life to make 
payments in line with the contract that was entered into in 1992. And to make good 
the payment shortfall between 2006 and now.
On 31 August 2023, our investigator repeated her request for more information from Sun 
Life. She still wanted it to provide the following for the Ombudsman to review:
- The specific legal name of the law that changed in 2006. 
- The previous relevant law which supported the annuity originally not being escalated 
by 5% since 1992.
Mrs Bs representatives comments didnt change our investigators view. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 September 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. While I agree with our investigator that Sun Life has 
paid the correct pension increases, I have different reasons from her for this view. And I 
dont agree that Sun Lifes offer of compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused is reasonable under the circumstances. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
As our investigator noted, theres no dispute that Mrs Bs annuity hasnt increased by 5% 
each year between 1992 and 2006. What is in dispute is whether Sun Life has paid Mrs Bs 
annuity in line with the policy conditions by not applying the 5% increases throughout.
I first considered whether Sun Life had paid Mrs B the correct pension increases.
Has Sun Life paid the correct pension increases over time?
Before pension simplification came into force from 1 April 2006, a pensions increase cap 
applied to Mrs Bs pension. Her annuity had started at a level which was a little lower than 
that cap - her IR maximum. But by 1994, it had increased to a point where the next annual 
5% escalation would take her annuity over her cap. From this point on, Sun Life was required to ensure that Mrs Bs annuity increased in line 
with IR limits, which restricted those increases to the greater of 3% or the increase in the 
RPI. The policy documentation explained what would happen in this case. So Sun Life wrote 
to Mrs B through her IFA in 1994 to tell her that her annuity would be restricted. 
Im satisfied that Sun Life acted in line with the annuity policy provision: Annuity Escalation 
Restriction. This required any increase to be restricted by the Maximum Annuity Amount. 
And, once the annuity had been restricted, the policy provision also required any subsequent 
increase to the annuity to apply to that restricted amount of annuity, rather than what the 
annuity wouldve been worth if 5% increases had been added each year. 
So Im satisfied that the original contract didnt allow Sun Life to choose to repay any 
amounts that had been restricted earlier in the policy. It specified that if benefits had to be 
restricted, subsequent increases must be based on the restricted amount.
I appreciate that Sun Life has referred to government regulation causing the restriction. And 
that Mrs Bs representative has repeatedly asked it to clarify which laws restricted Mrs Bs 
pension increases. But it was the combined effect of the IR maximum limits and the policy 
provisions that led to the increases Mrs B has had applied to her annuity.
Sun Lifes July 1994 letter offered Mrs B a contract that it said specifically addressed the 
issue of restrictions and future payments should the level of RPI increase. 
I dont have any details about that contact, other than those in the July 1994 letter. However, 
the letter stated that under that contract, the pension would continue to be restricted as 
before, but if the RPI increased to a level above 5%, Sun Life would pay that rate in an 
attempt to catch-up the annuity to a level it couldve been had no restriction occurred. Mrs 
B chose the amended contract Sun Life had offered. 
Ive reviewed the annual rates of increase in the RPI between February to February from 23 
August 2004, when Mrs B accepted the new contract, and 28 August 2008, when Sun Life 
wrote to her to tell her it could now pay the 5% escalation rate without restriction. At no point 
did this rate increase at more than the original 5% escalation rate. Therefore, based on the 
evidence I have, Mrs Bs annuity wouldnt have been eligible for any catch-up payments 
during this period. And Ive seen no evidence that Sun Life has applied incorrect increases 
over this period.
Sun Life confirmed in its 28 August 2008 letter that from 6 April 2006, 5% escalations were 
no longer restricted. I understand that it has effectively paid 5% annual increases since then. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Sun Life increased Mrs Bs annuity in line with the original contract 
terms and the amended contract terms Mrs B agreed to in 1994. I say this because Ive seen 
no evidence that Sun Life hasnt paid the correct pension increases over time. 
I next considered the fact that another of Mrs Bs pension providers decided to retroactively 
apply the full increases after pension simplification came in. 
Other pension providers made good the historical increases
Mrs Bs representative said that another of Mrs Bs pensions, which started at a similar time 
to this pension, had increased at 5% each year from the start of the pension.
Sun Life acknowledged this point. But said that it couldnt comment on the approach thatd 
been taken. I cant fairly ask Sun Life to retrospectively apply the 5% increases, regardless of what 
another provider may have done. I say this because I have no way of knowing the 
circumstances, including the policy terms and conditions, that applied in the other case.
All I can say is that, based on my review of the evidence, Sun Life has acted in line with the 
policy documentation.
I next considered the distress and inconvenience that Sun Life has caused Mrs B. And 
whether its offer of £100 compensation was fair.
Distress and Inconvenience
I dont have the power to award any distress and inconvenience compensation to Mrs Bs 
representative, as hes not an eligible complainant in his own right. But I can award it to Mrs 
B, for the distress the complaint has caused her.
Mrs Bs representative said he was upset because Mrs Bs annuity payments no longer 
covered her costs. So I can understand why he wanted to ensure that the correct payments 
were being made. I can see why hed want this to be confirmed quickly.
Mrs Bs representative first complained to Sun Life in December 2022. Hed waited a month 
for a copy of Mrs Bs policy document. And Sun Life hadnt been able to tell him when he 
might receive it. He was concerned that Mrs Bs pension hadnt increased as it shouldve 
done. Given Mrs B needed that pension urgently, he needed a timely response. 
Sun Life wrote to Mrs Bs representative in December 2022 to explain an historical correction 
to Mrs Bs pension payments. But I dont consider that it provided enough context for Mrs Bs 
representative to be clear what the arrears payment was for. 
Mrs Bs representative has also asked Sun Life for other information about the policy on 31 
January 2023. Some of this has been provided, but some remains outstanding several 
months after the initial request, despite a number of chasers.
Sun Life didnt issue its final response to the complaint until April 2023. But its response still 
didnt cover the points Mrs Bs representative had asked it to cover in January 2023.
Sun Life has acknowledged there was a delay in providing the policy documents and an 
explanation about the annuity increases. It said this was due to the historical nature of the 
information and the fact that it needed to be retrieved from its files. But I consider Sun Life 
couldve provided Mrs Bs representative with a fuller response, that addressed most of his 
complaint points, and therefore provided reassurance that the annuity payments had been 
correct, much sooner than it did. 
Mrs Bs representative has repeatedly asked Sun Life for evidence of the government 
legislation it relied on to reject Mrs Bs complaint. This service has also requested this 
information on more than one occasion. But it hasnt provided this. I think it shouldve been 
able to provide Mrs Bs representative with at least the kind of information Ive brought 
together in this decision. And I think it shouldve been able to do this much sooner.
Mrs Bs representative has also asked Sun Life to share the legal advice it said itd taken to 
confirm it had acted correctly. Without it, he didnt feel it had been able to provide any 
verifiable reasons for not paying out the annuity in full. I can see why he felt this way. 
I consider that Sun Life shouldve responded to Mrs Bs representative in a much more 
complete and timely manner. If it had done so, I consider it wouldve saved Mrs B a lot of distress about whether she was being paid the correct amount of pension. 
Sun Life offered Mrs B £100 compensation due to the length of time it took to respond to the 
requests and the complaint. Given the amount of additional delay Mrs B has had to endure 
while waiting for the information her representative requested, I dont consider Sun Lifes 
offer is fair. 
In light of the additional delays in responding to Mrs Bs complaint, I intend to ask Sun Life to 
increase its compensation for distress and inconvenience to £300. 
In summary, Ive seen no evidence that Sun Life has failed to pay the correct pension 
increases to Mrs B. But I consider that it took too long to respond to various requests and 
complaints about the annuity. And I consider that it couldve been clearer in its responses. If 
it had been, Im satisfied it wouldve caused less distress to Mrs B. 
Therefore I intend to uphold the complaint. And I intend to ask Sun Life to pay Mrs B £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Response to my provisional decision
Sun Life didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs Bs representative said he now accepted that the current payment regime was correct. 
He noted that he had only recently received a copy of the policy document. And that if Sun 
Life had sent him a copy when he requested it last November, all this investigation couldve 
been prevented. He felt that Sun Life had taken an obstructive approach to resolving his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
What I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun 
Life Financial of Canada to do
I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life 
Financial of Canada to pay Mrs B £300 for the distress caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada must pay Mrs B £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman