DRN-1819919
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK is paying him less income protection benefit 
than hes been paying for. 
What happened
Mr S took out an income protection policy in 2010 with the help of an independent financial 
adviser (IFA). The policy was set up to pay Mr S an income of £15,000 per month in the 
event that he became unable to perform the duties of his role due to illness, which was 
deemed to be suitable based on his earnings at the time. 
In 2019 Mr S needed to make a claim. But on receiving information about Mr Ss earnings 
Aviva said it could only pay him around £9,000 per month due to a maximum benefit clause. 
This meant Mr S could only claim up to a certain percentage of what hed earned during the 
12 month period before he became incapacitated. As his earnings had reduced since the 
policy started, that percentage equated to less than the benefit hed been paying for. 
Aviva explained that all income protection policies include such limits in order to create an 
incentive for claimants to return to work. However, it agreed to go through an assessment 
with Mr S to work out the extent to which hed been over-insured. It agreed to reimburse any 
overpaid premiums and amend the benefit to better reflect Mr Ss current earnings. 
Mr S complained as he didnt feel this was fair. He said hed never received a copy of the 
terms and conditions of the policy and therefore had never been made aware of the 
maximum benefit clause. He thought it was onerous to expect him to have disclosed each 
and every fluctuation in his earnings because the nature of his job meant his income varied. 
And he felt that Aviva had used the wrong figures to calculate his benefits in any event.   
Our investigator thought Aviva probably had sent Mr S policy documentation. And from 
reviewing the documentation he thought the maximum benefit clause was explained clearly. 
He noted that Aviva sent Mr S yearly letters which referenced the maximum benefit clause 
and prompted him to make sure the policy was based on his current financial circumstances.  
He agreed Mr S had been paying for more benefit than he was entitled to, but he thought 
Aviva had done the right thing by offering to return any overpaid premiums. He didnt think 
Aviva should disregard the limit and pay the full £15,000. And he concluded that the benefit 
payments had been calculated correctly. Mr S disagreed, so I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, I havent considered the sale of the policy in this decision. Thats 
because the policy was sold to Mr S by a third party. Having said that, it seems from Mr Ss 
submissions that he doesnt necessarily consider that the policy was unsuitable to start with, 
but rather that it became unsuitable due to subsequent fluctuations in his earnings. 
In terms of the amount of benefit Mr S is entitled to receive under the policy terms, although 
he was insured to receive £15,000 each month in the event of a claim, the policy states:
The maximum amount of benefit we will pay is:
60% of your earnings up to the first £25,000; plus
50% of your earnings above £25,000,
up to a maximum annual amount of £180,000.
The policy definitions also make clear that any use of the term earnings refers to Mr Ss 
income during the 12 month period before he became incapacitated.
Mr S has said that Aviva failed to make him aware of the maximum benefit clause or that he 
was over-insured. In applying for the policy, Mr S signed a declaration to confirm his 
understanding that, among other things:
8. I understand that full details of cover and exclusions are given in the policy 
documents to be issued, standard copies of which are available on request.
10. I understand that the Insurer reserves the right to reduce my benefit should the 
combined benefit be in excess of the maximum limit then being offered by the 
Insurer.
In the illustration document generated for Mr S during the application process, Aviva said:
To justify the benefit below your normal earnings must be at least £355,000.00.
Once Mr Ss application was accepted, Aviva sent him a welcome pack which included a 
copy of the policy wording. The welcome pack bears the address Mr S provided on his 
application form. But the corresponding record in Avivas system notes suggests it may have 
been sent via the IFA acting on his behalf. Either way, Im satisfied Aviva has provided Mr S 
with a copy of the policy wording. I dont think Aviva can be held liable for any failure by the 
IFA to pass the welcome pack on to him. The declaration should have led Mr S to expect a 
copy of the policy terms and made clear that copies were available on request.  
The relevant clause, which was headed maximum annual amount payable is transcribed 
above and appeared on page five, the first page after the table of benefits. Im satisfied that 
it was sufficiently prominent, particularly as it had been referred to in the application form. 
And I think the explanation given was clear. Under the policy condition headed change of 
circumstances Aviva also explained that Mr S should review his level of cover with his IFA if 
his earnings reduced, or if his continuing income changed. 
Avivas system notes show that it dispatched letters annually to the address it had on file for 
Mr S. Like Ive said, the address it held in the first instance matched the one provided on the 
application form. And its since confirmed that the address it holds now matches the one 
provided on Mr Ss claim form. The letters prompted Mr S to let Aviva know of any changes 
to his financial circumstances. And included a reminder that your total benefit must not 
exceed the limit stated in your policy wording. It also encouraged Mr S to discuss his policy 
with his IFA to make sure it still met his needs. I therefore consider that Aviva did enough to bring the maximum benefit clause to Mr Ss 
attention. It was ultimately Mr Ss responsibility to ensure that the benefit hed selected 
remained appropriate to his financial circumstances. And he ought reasonably to have 
realised from the information provided to him by Aviva that he was over-insured. 
I do accept that Mr S didnt realise he was over-insured. I find it unlikely that he would have 
willingly paid for more benefit than he was eligible to receive. Our approach to these 
situations is that, regardless of whos at fault for the over-insurance, an insurer cant fairly 
retain the full premium if it has not carried the full risk associated with that premium.
I wouldnt expect Aviva to pay Mr S more benefit than he was ever entitled to. As its said, 
every income protection policy limits benefits to a percentage of the consumers earnings. 
Therefore, the loss to Mr S is that hes paid for more cover than he could ever benefit from. 
Mr S has questioned what would have happened if the over-insurance had gone unnoticed, 
but it isnt relevant for me to consider that here because Aviva has established and offered to 
remedy the over-insurance, despite not being responsible for it. 
Aviva has offered to carry out a financial assessment to establish the extent to which Mr S 
was over-insured at any given time. Its agreed to reimburse the difference between the 
premium he paid and the premium he ought to have paid if he was insured correctly. This is 
a fair and reasonable approach in my opinion. It will require Mr S to send Aviva evidence of 
his past earnings so that it can calculate the refund due. As I dont consider that Aviva is 
responsible for the over-insurance, I wouldnt expect it to add interest to the refund. 
In carrying out this assessment, Aviva has also said it will recalculate Mr Ss benefit so that 
its more suitable to his current financial circumstances. I note that on one of the payslips 
weve been sent by Mr S, it mentions income protection in the list of benefits. 
Mr S has said he isnt eligible to receive income protection via his employer. And I can see 
that in his application form for Avivas policy he selected that he had no existing income 
protection cover. But I think it would be prudent for Aviva to explore whether its policy 
duplicates cover Mr S can now access as a benefit of his employment contract.
Mr S doesnt appear to be receiving any benefit via his employers policy but is claiming the 
maximum benefit available from Avivas policy (or, as Ive explained below, will be, once it 
has clarified certain details regarding Mr Ss earnings and benefits). 
It appears then that Aviva has been carrying its full share of the risk. So, if it does turn out 
that Mr S has been dually insured, I dont think Aviva needs to issue a refund of premiums 
beyond that which it has already agreed to pay. Unless, that is, its able to make some kind 
of recovery from the insurer of the employers policy. But it should take account of this 
duplication (if it exists) when considering what level of cover Mr S requires going forward. 
Mr S thinks Aviva calculated his benefit payments using incorrect figures. Hes sent us a 
copy of a 2018 reward statement from his employer in order to demonstrate this. By asking 
Aviva to explain how it calculated Mr Ss pre-incapacity income, I was able to establish that it 
had included £35,000 in bonusses, whereas the reward statement shows bonusses totalling 
£50,000 (two deferred awards and a discretionary cash bonus). In all other respects the 
figures in the reward statement appear to match those used in Avivas calculations. 
I asked Mr S to supply more evidence regarding the cash bonus (which appears to be the 
one that isnt included in Avivas calculations) which he duly did. And after our investigator 
explained the policy contains provision for certain benefits in kind to be treated as earnings, 
Mr S also produced evidence that he was in receipt of private medical insurance during the 
12 month period before he became incapacitated. Its important to explain that under this reference, I can only consider whether Aviva acted 
fairly based on the information available to it at the point it issued its final response letter. 
And some of the evidence Mr S has provided in relation to these two items hasnt previously 
been seen by Aviva. However, in an attempt to try and resolve this issue without the need for 
a further complaint, I have passed some information back and forth regarding both Mr Ss 
bonusses and private medical insurance. 
Aviva has confirmed that, in theory, its prepared to recalculate Mr Ss benefit payments to 
account for the missing bonus, and his private medical insurance, once its satisfied that he 
was in receipt of both during the 12 months before his incapacity started. Regarding the 
bonus in particular, it says it isnt yet satisfied of this. As two of the bonusses were deferred, 
two bonusses were for the same amount, and one of them wasnt taxable, it say its finding 
the overall picture difficult to piece together and it has some additional questions.
Its also caveated that the policy terms allow it to deduct any continuing income. It wants to 
request further information from Mr S about this now to prevent it having to do a separate 
review and recalculation further down the line.  
I think that for me to continue to pass requests and information between the two parties 
would mean that Im, in effect, carrying out responsibilities that in fact belong to Aviva. 
Therefore, I think the appropriate next step is for me to issue this decision to draw a line 
under the over-insurance issues. And for me to encourage Aviva to open up a direct 
dialogue with Mr S about his bonusses, benefits in kind and continuing income, in order to 
resolve any perceived discrepancies.  
If Mr S is unhappy with the outcome of this dialogue, hell have renewed complaint rights. 
He can raise his concerns with Aviva in the first instance, and then to our service (subject to 
the usual time limits). I see no reason why this dialogue cant take place alongside Avivas 
assessment of the extent to which Mr S has been over-insured during the life of the policy, 
which will require engagement between the two parties in any event.  
Id expect Aviva to honour its commitment to include the missing bonus, and Mr Ss private 
medical insurance, in its calculations of his benefits, upon satisfactory evidence that he was 
in receipt of both during the relevant period. It also agreed to backdate any under-payments 
with interest. And I remind it that it should consider Mr Ss evidence on balance.
Finally, Mr S considers that Aviva should add an extra benefit payment on to the end of his 
claim to account for the fact that payments didnt begin until seven months after he became 
incapacitated, despite his deferred period being set at six months. But Im satisfied that this 
is just a result of the fact that payments under the policy are made monthly in arrears.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 December 2020. 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman