DRN-3419707
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limited. He isnt happy about the way it 
settled liability following a claim under his motor insurance policy and about the reduction in 
his no claims discount (NCD).
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr B made a claim under his motor insurance policy after he was involved in a minor 
accident while reversing. Tesco looked into the claim for him and held Mr B at fault for the 
accident which impacted his NCD.
Mr B wasnt happy about this and complained to Tesco about it. He thought that the other 
driver should have been aware of him and so he shouldnt be held at fault for the accident. 
And he said that he had over nine years NCD when he bought the policy and so couldnt 
understand why his NCD had been reduced to three years.
Tesco explained that as Mr B was reversing onto a road he was held responsible for the 
accident. And explained that its maximum level of NCD was five years and as Mr B had 
been involved in an accident his NCD had been stepped back to three years. As Mr B still 
wasnt happy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
that Tesco had considered liability fairly in concluding that Mr B was at fault for the accident. 
And that Tesco fully explained how it looked at NCD before Mr B took out the policy and had 
acted in line with this. As Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im presently minded to partly uphold this complaint, Ill explain why. 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand how difficult and frustrating Mr B has found all of this. I say this as Mr B 
was at the scene and feels that the other driver could have done more to avoid the accident. 
But as our investigator has explained it isnt the role of this service to decide liability, which is 
a matter for the courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Tesco, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows them to take over 
the settlement of Mr Bs claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court or 
settle a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers are cautious 
about going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success 
in making these decisions and have significant experience in this area.
But we look to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters and make 
a reasonable assessment of the claim - based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in mind, I have carefully considered how 
Tesco handled Mr Bs claim.
It is clear Tesco looked at all the available evidence, including the CCTV footage and 
considered both Mr B and the third partys account when it decided liability. But given Mr B 
was reversing onto a road the greater onus was on him to ensure it was safe to make the 
manoeuvre. And so I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably in settling liability holding Mr B at 
fault and I dont think it would have won at court given these circumstances  so I dont think 
it acted unreasonably here.
Turning to the reduction in Mr Bs NCD I would expect the way Tesco deals with NCD to be 
explained to its customers clearly and in this instance I dont think it was. As insurers deal 
with NCD differently I would have expected Tesco to have explained this to Mr B before he 
took the policy out and I havent seen any evidence that it did. And Mr B has provided a 
video showing that he couldnt access all the documentation, including the way Tesco deals 
with NCD, online. And unless Mr B was able to access the information about the way his 
NCD was being reduced overall and dealt with in the event of a fault claim I dont think he 
would have known, especially as the documents Mr B could access (including his statement 
of fact) said he had 9 years NCD.
Given that Mr B has made it clear he didnt know that his NCD would reduce from the 9 
years he presented with to 3 years and would have acted differently if he was made aware. I 
feel the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Tesco to put Mr B back into the position he would have been but for its system error. 
So Tesco should 
Allow Mr B to pay an increase in premium as if he had protected his NCD and allow 
his NCD in full if he wishes to pay this; and
Pay £100 compensation for stress and inconvenience all this has caused him.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr B accepted the position outlined and 
said he had nothing further to add. While Tesco said that the documents provided was a 
sample document and said its screenshot showed that Mr B had the opportunity to read his 
policy booklet prior to purchase of the policy to ensure it met his needs.
It said that Mr B should have done this before taking his policy out so that he knew the policy 
benefits, limitations, and exclusions of cover. Tesco said it asks its customers to check they 
are happy with everything before purchasing the policy as opposed to after. And highlights 
that Mr B called and spoke to Tesco twice on the day he took the policy out but says he 
didnt mention that he couldnt access the policy documentation. Tesco says that Mr B would 
have mentioned this if he wasnt able to gain access and it was Mr Bs prerogative if he 
chose not to access his policy documents before purchasing his policy.Furthermore, Tesco questioned whether the link didnt work as it hadnt been made aware of 
any issues with its systems by other policy holders. Ultimately, Tesco felt if the document 
could not be opened, this may have been more an issue with the customers device, than the 
link. But again, had Mr B mentioned this Tesco could have made an attempt to forward the 
policy booklet in a different format had it needed to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides appear to accept that Tesco acted reasonably in relation to liability I dont 
propose to rehearse the arguments again. But having reconsidered everything Im still of the 
view that the complaint should be partly upheld. Ive seen the video footage that Mr B 
provided, and I find it persuasive. I think, on balance, it is clear that Mr B couldnt access all 
the documentation, which included the way Tesco deals with his NCD. And the 
documentation that he could access (including the statement of fact) suggested he had 9 
years NCD, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to presume this was still the case. I 
say this as this was the only documentation that he could access outlining and overall, I 
havent been provided with enough information to show that the NCD position was made 
clear before he took the policy out. And any ambiguity should be interpreted in his favour 
here.
Given all of this I remain of the opinion that the fair and reasonable thing to do is for this 
complaint to be partly upheld. And so, Ill ask Tesco to take the steps outlined in my 
provisional decision subject to Mr Bs agreement.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to;
Allow Mr B to pay an increase in premium as if he had protected his NCD and allow 
his NCD in full if he wishes to pay this; and
Pay £100 compensation for stress and inconvenience all this has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman