DRN-2732929
The complaint
Mr B has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident. He claimed on his policy. esure deemed Mr Bs car 
to be a total loss. It said that the car had some pre-existing issues which brought its market 
value down to £1,000. Mr B didn't think that valuation was fair and he said esures engineer 
was rude to him. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She noted that 
esure had made a deduction from the valuation for a replacement tyre which she didn't think 
was fair. But, after adjusting the deduction for that, she still thought esures valuation was 
reasonable.
Mr B didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr B's made a number of points. But in this decision I don't intend 
to address each and every issue raised and instead will focus on the issues at the heart of 
Mr Bs complaint which esure addressed in its response to it.
Mr Bs policy says that if his car was a total loss esure would pay him its market value. And 
Ive seen that when esure was looking for the market value of Mr Bs car it followed our 
guidance for doing so. That is it looked at the values given by the trade guides used for 
valuing second hand cars. Those provided valuations between £1,212 and £1,600. esure 
then produced an average of those valuations to arrive at a figure of £1,383. 
But it noted that the car had some pre-existing damage to its front panel, which had been 
poorly repaired, that the windscreen was delaminating, that there was play in an inner tie 
bar, that there was a leak from the exhaust and that a tyre was worn. It said it had estimated 
the cost to repair the cars pre-existing issues was around £835. So, to account for that 
damage it reduced the value it had determined for Mr Bs car by £383 and said the market 
value of the car was £1,000.
Mr B didn't think that was fair. He said any damage to the front panel and windscreen must 
have happened in the accident. He said hed had the exhaust replaced shortly before the 
accident and that the tyre remained road legal. 
Its usual for pre-existing damage to reduce the market value of cars. And we think its fair for 
insurers like esure to make a reasonable deduction from the value of a car where thats the 
case. Ive noted that when replying to Mr Bs complaint esure referred to the five issues Ive 
listed above. But, when estimating the costs to repair the pre-existing issues with Mr Bs car 
esures engineer only considered the issues with the front panel, the windscreen and the 
tyre. So esure didn't make any deduction for the other points, with the tie bar or the exhaust. 
It follows that the fact that Mr B had the exhaust replaced before the accident wouldn't have 
affected esures valuation. 
Mr B said that esures engineer referred to the exhaust issue when he spoke with him about 
the valuation. But Ive listened to that call and the engineer only referred to the damage to 
the front panel and the delamination. So I'm satisfied that esure didn't take account of the 
exhaust issue when it estimated the costs to repair the pre-existing damage. 
Mr B also said the damage to the front panel of the car and the windscreen must have 
happened in the accident. But I don't think that's right. I note the engineer said the front 
panel had a previous poor repair. So that damage didn't happen in the accident as Mr Bs 
car wasn't repaired following it. 
Also, the cars windscreen had delaminated. Thats where layers of glass separate. And I'm 
aware that this is a process associated with wear and tear, usually happening over time. So I 
don't think it would have been caused in the accident. I'm also aware that Mr Bs car had 
passed its MOT only weeks before the accident. Mr B thinks that if the delamination had 
been present then it would have been highlighted by the MOT. But an MOT only ensures 
that the car is road legal. And as the delamination wasn't affecting the drivers view, then this 
isn't something that would cause an MOT fail. So I don't think the fact that the MOT didn't 
refer to the delamination means it wasn't present when Mr Bs car was tested (and as I said, 
this is typically wear and tear damage  so its unlikely to have happened in the interim after 
the MOT and before the accident). 
esure also factored in the costs of a replacement tyre when estimating the costs to repair the 
pre-existing issues. Ive seen that the MOT tester had noted the tyre would need to be 
replaced soon. But at the time of the accident it was still road legal. So I don't think it was fair 
for esure to have factored that in when valuing Mr B's car. However, removing the cost of the 
replacement tyre from esures estimate for repairing the pre-existing issues would have 
reduced the estimate to around £757. But esure only made a deduction from the value of the 
car of £383, which is just over half the total repair costs without the tyre factored in. And in 
the circumstances I think that's fair.
Mr Bs also complained that esures engineer was rude. But I've listened to the call and, from 
an independent perspective, I don't think he was. I'm aware that the engineer left Mr B a 
voicemail initially and Mr B then struggled to get hold of him after that. But the engineer did 
ring Mr B back the following day. And while I can understand Mr Bs frustration that he 
couldn't speak with the engineer straightaway, I think its reasonable that the engineer spoke 
with him the next day. So I'm not going to instruct esure to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 Joe Scott
Ombudsman