DRN-2166881
The complaint
Mrs S makes a number of complaints about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited.
What happened
Mrs S complains that she has had systems and service issue problems with her account and 
problems accessing the account. She says she asked for the account to be closed and any 
direct debits and standing orders to be cancelled but that didnt take place. Mrs S also says 
she asked for account statements but was sent statements from the wrong year. In summary 
she says she has spent a significant amount of time dealing with these issues and would like 
compensation and an apology over and above the £25 she has been offered. She would 
also like the account charges refunded.
Advanced Payment Solutions says there were some system issues in 2019 and has 
apologised and offered Mrs S £25 compensation. It says it did send required e-mails to Mrs 
S.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. I will not repeat 
all of his findings and will summarise them. He thought Advanced Payment Solutions had 
dealt with parts of Mrs Ss complaint but thought it clear she wanted the account to close and 
asked it to cancel any direct debits and standing orders. The investigator thought Mrs S had 
been sent the incorrect account statements and recommended Advanced Payment 
Solutions increase its compensation offer to £200 as well as waive any interest applied to 
the account and refund any fees since December 2019.
Mrs S accepts that view, but Advanced Payment Solutions doesnt agree but hasnt 
explained why or provided any further information as asked for by the investigator.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Advanced Payment Solutions hasnt 
dealt fairly with Mrs S and hasnt really explained what took place and why.
I dont need to repeat the number of complaints Mrs S makes but Im satisfied that she 
experienced problems, some of which Advanced Payment Solutions accepts were caused. 
Im also satisfied that Mrs S made clear she wanted to close the account and asked for any 
direct debits and standing orders to be cancelled. But I can see that Advanced Payment 
Solutions didnt close the account and gave Mrs S incorrect information about the standing 
orders. I also accept that Mrs S was not given the correct statements and that Advanced 
Payment Solutions hasnt explained why.
I dont think the compensation offer by Advanced Payment Solutions is fair and reasonable 
and doesnt take into the account the additional problems Mrs S experienced. I think that 
offer should be increased to £200 as recommended by the investigator which I think is fair 
and reasonable. And reflects how long these problems went on for and also reflects the time 
Mrs S has spent trying to sort them out.
I think its clear Mrs S wanted to close the account and some of the payments make 
reference to that. So, I also think it fair and reasonable that Advanced Payment Solutions 
refund any fees and interest applied to the account since December 2019 and help Mrs S 
close the account.
Putting things right 
Advanced Payment Solutions should increase its compensation offer to £200 and help Mrs S 
close this account. In addition, it should refund any interest, charges or fees applied since 
December 2019 excluding the December 2019 fee as that appears to relate to a different 
time period. It is not clear if any adverse information has been reported to the Credit 
Reference Agencies but if it has, then it should be removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
to pay Mrs S a total of £200 compensation and refund any interest, charges or fees applied 
to the account from December 2019. It should also cancel the standing orders and direct 
debits and help Mrs S close the account as well as remove any adverse information reported 
to the Credit Reference Agencies if it has done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman