DRN-3714169
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the refusal of a business interruption claim under his business 
insurance policy with certain underwriters at Society of Lloyd's.
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his policy, as he says he suffered business interruption losses as 
a result of the restrictions imposed in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr M has a 
clinical practice and had to close on 16 March 2020 for a period of time and then had to 
operate under restrictions, which caused loss of revenue and also additional operating costs. 
His initial claim was for losses arising as a result of those measures since March 2020. 
The underwriters refused the claim, as they said the policy covers losses to a business due 
to infectious diseases at the premises, and not as a result of general restrictions or closure 
required by the Government. The underwriters said there had been no suggestion of Covid-
19 being present at Mr Ms premises. 
Mr M pointed out that Lloyds final response letter had referred to requiring an outbreak of 
the disease at the premises and also the disease occurring at the premises, neither of which 
are required by the wording in his policy. Mr Ms policy requires there to have been a 
manifestation of a notifiable disease at the premises. Mr M said he had no confirmed cases 
of Covid-19 on the premises but also cannot say how many patients attended the practice 
without knowing they had Covid-19. He does know that a patient attended the premises in 
July 2020 advising that she was suffering a loss of smell due to a previous infection with 
Covid-19. Mr M says she therefore displayed a symptom of Covid-19 while at the premises 
and this is sufficient to meet the policy requirement for cover. 
The underwriters said they would reconsider the matter, if Mr M could show he had closed 
the practice as a result the patient attending in July 2020. Mr M doesnt agree this is 
necessary for his claim to succeed. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he said the evidence didnt show that the patient was infected with Covid-19 at 
the time she attended Mr Ms premises and in any event the Government restrictions had 
been imposed in March 2020, before the patient in question had been at the premises. The 
Investigator was therefore satisfied the underwriters were entitled to refuse the claim. 
Mr M does not accept the Investigators assessment. He says the Investigator has not 
properly understood the Supreme Courts judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case or the legal relevance of the evidence he 
has provided. Mr M says the Supreme Court judgement clarified that where a policy requires 
a manifestation of a notifiable disease, this would mean that the person concerned must 
either have displayed symptoms of the disease, or have been diagnosed as having the 
disease. So he only has to show that a symptom of Covid-19 was displayed at the premises 
(which he has) and does not, as the Investigator has suggested, have to show there was a 
Covid-19 case at the premises. 
Mr M has also provided a positive antigen test for the patient dated 1 July 2020, which 
indicates a SARS-coV-2 infection at some time and evidence that he was required to 
restrict the way he saw and treated patients (which caused him loss)  by the Chief Dental 
Officer in August 2020, after the patient attended the premises. Mr M says this satisfies the 
causal sequence required under the policy term (that the restrictions or closure be as a 
result of manifestation at the premises). Mr M says he is not claiming for the losses arising 
from the closure of the practice that was imposed before the patient in question attended his 
premises. 
 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had such an 
impact on Mr M s business. However, I wont be upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Mr Ms policy carefully. It includes cover for losses arising from the 
interruption of business as a result of certain specified events. The part of the policy that is 
most relevant to the claim is an extension to the business interruption section of cover, which 
covers: 
Closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Cs claim, 
the interruption to Cs business would need to be as a result of a manifestation of Covid-19  
at the premises. For a case to have manifested, I think someone would either need to have 
been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have displayed symptoms at the premises which, on the 
balance of probabilities, were Covid-19.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
manifestation of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance 
claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its 
suffered a loss that the policy covers.
Mr M has said there were no confirmed cases of Covid-19 at the premises. And he seems to 
have accepted that there was no cover therefore for any losses arising from the closure of 
the premises in March 2020, and the restrictions placed on how he could operate between then and June 2020. However, he also says that he had a patient attend in July 2020, who 
was displaying a symptom of Covid-19  i.e. a loss of sense of smell  and this was prior to 
the restrictions imposed in August 2020 on the way he could see patients.  
From the evidence provided by Mr M, the patient reported that the loss of sense of smell was 
an ongoing symptom from a previous Covid-19 infection. And a positive antigen test has 
been provided to show she had Covid-19 at some time before 1 July 2020. Mr M is adamant 
that this satisfies the policy requirement of a manifestation of the disease at the premises 
and any other conclusion is contrary to the findings of the Supreme Court in the test case.  
I am not, however, persuaded that this is enough to mean the claim should be met. There is 
no suggestion the patient had Covid-19 at the time she attended Mr Ms premises. This 
doesnt appear to be in dispute, but Mr M says this is irrelevant as it is only required that 
there be a symptom displayed of the disease and there was. 
The FCA test case did not consider policies with clauses requiring the disease to be at the 
premises, only ones where the diseases was required to occur within a specified radius of 
the premises. The Supreme Court provided some clarity on how a policyholder might 
establish that Covid-19 had manifested itself within the required radius as required by those 
policies. 
In my opinion, there is nothing in that judgment that suggests that cover would be triggered 
by a person that is displaying an ongoing symptom but is no longer infected with the 
disease. I think it is reasonable to consider that there has to be infection with the disease at 
the time the patient was at the premises. So while Mr Ms patient might have still been 
displaying a symptom of Covid-19 in July 2020 when she attended his premises, I do not 
consider it reasonable to conclude that this amounts to a manifestation of Covid-19 at the 
premises. 
The evidence provided to me is that the impact on Mr Ms practice was not due to anyone at 
the premises having Covid-19. I do not therefore think it was unreasonable for the 
underwriters to refuse the claim under this section of cover.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman