DRN-2071491
The complaint
Mrs L says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs L bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided that Mrs Ls PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs L says she didnt realise the PPI had been added to her account, and that the 
cover wasnt explained clearly.  
Mrs L applied for her credit card by post, and I can see that she ticked the box on the 
application form to show that she wanted the cover. There was a box immediately 
underneath that she couldve ticked if she hadnt wanted it. So I think Mrs L wouldve 
realised she had a choice about buying the PPI, although I can understand why she 
may not remember this given the amount of time thats passed since she bought the 
policy. 
Mrs L applied for her credit card and the PPI by post, which meant Barclaycard didnt 
give her any advice about buying the cover. That meant Barclaycard didnt have to 
make any enquiries about whether Mrs L had other means to cover her credit card 
repayments if she couldnt work. It was for Mrs L to decide whether or not the PPI 
was suitable for her.
But even if Barclaycard had advised Mrs L to take out the policy, it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Even though Mrs L says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to those benefits and wouldve been useful to her if she 
couldnt work. And having the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs L didnt have to rely 
on her partner and family. So I think Mrs L wouldve had some use for the policy, 
despite her existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Mrs L would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Which means Barclaycard does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mrs L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mrs L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman