DRN-3148431
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Goddard Perry Consulting Ltd
(GPC) to transfer her occupational pension (OPS) to a group personal pension (GPP).
What happened
Mrs M had been a member of her employers OPS since 1988. In early 1996, her company
decided to wind up the scheme. They started a GPP instead which they would make
employers pension contributions to and invited Mrs M to join the GPP and transfer her
existing benefits to it. Mrs M also had the option to move to an individual personal pension or
move her OPS benefits to a policy with Friends Provident (now Aviva) who could retain her
existing policy.
GPC recommended her to join the GPP and transfer her OPS benefits of around £10,700
into it.
In 2019, Mrs M complained through a representative that she had been misadvised to
transfer to the GPP as she had given up valuable benefits. They said she was a low risk
investor and should have remained in the OPS.
GPC rejected the complaint and an adjudicator at this service agreed the GPP had been
suitable. It was later reviewed by another colleague at this service who thought the complaint
should be upheld as Mrs Ms OPS included a guaranteed annuity rate which she lost on
transfer. This guarantee could have been retained by moving her plan to the Friends
Provident policy and this didnt seem to have been explained to Mrs M at the time. So
transferring to the GPP didnt seem like the most suitable option.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I previously issued a provisional decision not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I invited any 
further comments Mrs M, her representatives or GPC would like me to take into account, but 
neither party replied within the given deadline. As theres no further information for me to 
consider I see no reason to depart from my original decision which Ive repeated again 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Originally Mrs Ms representative made the argument that her OPS was a defined benefit
scheme, however having looked at the information provided, Im satisfied this was a targeted
money purchase scheme invested in with-profits funds. This means whilst Mrs Ms employer
and Mrs M would be making contributions to aim towards a target pension income (which
was 1/60th of her estimated final pensionable salary for every year of service), these werent
guaranteed benefits like in a final salary pension. Mrs Ms pension income was dependent
on investment returns over the years and interest rates when she retired.
What Mrs M did lose by transferring to the GPP was her guaranteed annuity rate which
Aviva confirmed as follows: For a female aged 60, on a level, single life basis, monthly in
advance, guaranteed for 5 years and with no dependent, £1,286.00 fund purchases £100 pa
annuity.
This works out as a guaranteed annuity rate at age 60 of just under 7.9%. As annuity rates
have fallen over the years, in hindsight this might have been a valuable guarantee. However,
I need to consider that the advice happened back in 1996 and whether it was suitable then.
This service has access to historic annuity rates and in early February 1996 annuity rates on
the same basis as set out above were higher than the guaranteed rate (on average about
8.8%). So the guaranteed rate wouldnt have looked particularly attractive and projections for
returns and interest rates were far more optimistic than they turned out to be. To illustrate,
the regulator thought that in 1996 for someone of Mrs Ms age a growth rate of 10% until
retirement at age 60 was realistic. Unfortunately, markets have taken a downwards turn
since then, but this couldnt have been foreseen by GPC.
Documents from the time of sale are limited and I havent seen that the guaranteed annuity
rate was discussed with Mrs M. However, that doesnt mean the transfer to the GPP was
automatically unsuitable. Mrs Ms employer was making tiered contributions (depending on
age) towards the GPP which they said was designed to roughly match the contributions in
the OPS. This increased from 4% for employees under 24 up to 20% for over 55s.
Contributions to her existing policy would have ceased.
Mrs Ms scheme was invested in with-profits and the GPP was invested in a managed fund
which held around 60% in UK equities, 9% in global equities, 20% in bonds and 11% in fixed
interest and cash. Theres no evidence that Mrs M had a low attitude to risk at the time. She
might have been inexperienced, however she was only in her early thirties at the time and
had many years until retirement, so I think she was reasonably able to take a balanced risk
with her pension. I also note that in 2019 when she was much closer to retirement and when
many people become more cautious about their pension, her attitude to risk was recorded as
moderate by her current adviser and she was invested in a similar way. Overall, I dont
consider the investments in the GPP were unsuitable for her.
Ive seen projections from the time which showed the new plan would provide a higher
pension than the OPS (£61k in the OPS compared to over £70k in the GPP). Based on what
Ive seen transferring to the GPP and benefitting from her employers generous pension
contributions and consolidating her existing pension with her new pension was a reasonable
recommendation. The new plan also offered better death benefits pre-retirement (full fund
paid to beneficiaries compared to return of contributions in the OPS) and it was portable if
Mrs M changed employers in future, so offered more flexibility.
So overall, it doesnt seem to me that the recommendation to join the GPP and transfer her
existing benefits was unsuitable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Nina WalterOmbudsman