DRN-1068955
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Although Marks & Spencer (M&S) sold the PPI to Mr S, the insurers, Allianz Insurance Plc 
(Allianz), have accepted responsibility for the sale. So the complaint has been set up against 
them. 
What happened
In 1998 Mr S completed a application form to apply for an M&S store card. The PPI was 
taken at the same time in connection with this account and Mr Ss wife was nominated as 
the insured person on the application form. 
The policy cost 66p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 15% of 
the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs S was off work sick or lost her job. And it wouldve 
continued to pay while she was off work until the outstanding balance (at the start of the 
claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr S made it clear 
in his application he wanted the policy and it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr S disagrees, he says he wasnt given a choice to take the policy and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied for when Mr S applied for a store card. Given the length of time since 
the sale took place, Ive mainly relied on what the documents from the time of the sale show 
to help me decide how the PPI was presented to Mr S and how it came to be applied to his 
account.
Allianz have given us a copy of the original store card application form. I can see in the 
section that deals with PPI Mr S has ticked to select PPI cover for his wife as well as filling in 
her name and date of birth. 
If Mr S didnt want to take out PPI he couldve left the section clear and not selected to take 
the cover. Because PPI has been selected with a tick in the PPI section and Mr S has filled in his wifes details, rather than leaving the section clear, I think its likely he knew he had a 
choice about taking out PPI and chose to take it because he wanted the cover.
I dont think the sale was advised because the application appears to have been completed 
without the involvement of a sales representative. And although the application form may 
have the words We strongly recommend, this, I think is different to making a 
recommendation tailored to Mr Ss circumstances. 
So PPI wasnt recommended to Mr S by Allianz, it just gave him information about PPI. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI.
The cost of the policy was on the application form but I dont know what other information 
was given to Mr S at the point of sale. So I cant say whether the information given was good 
enough. That being said if Allianz did give all the information Mr S needed to make an 
informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at 
the time of sale:
 
Mrs S was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr S says Mrs S was entitled to a good level of sick pay but 
had no other means she could use to make the repayments. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer. 
And the policy provided a relatively high percentage of benefit per month for a 
prolonged period at a relatively low cost.
 
So I think the policy provided a useful benefit for Mr and Mrs S in their situation and I 
cant see how knowing this information wouldve changed their minds about taking the 
policy.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr S and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in what information was given to Mr S on the 
PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against
Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.Caroline Davies
Ombudsman