DRN-2705136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the way BUPA Insurance Limited has administered their 
personal private medical insurance policy. In particular, they feel that their policy was mis-
sold to them; that BUPA hasnt calculated their premiums fairly and that BUPA ought to 
refund premiums Mr and Mrs K paid during the Covid-19 pandemic, as they were unable to 
use their policy.
As Mrs K has mainly dealt with the complaint though, for ease, Ive just referred to Mrs K 
throughout this decision.
 
What happened
Mrs K was a member of a group personal medical insurance policy. However, in March 
2016, she decided to take up a new, personal policy with BUPA. She chose to take out a 
Local Hospital Care Plan policy, with an annual renewal date of 1 April of each year. In April 
2019, Mrs K paid £5824.20 for the policy. And it renewed on 1 April 2020, with a 
substantially increased new annual premium.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. 
In April 2020, Mrs K complained to BUPA about the policy. She felt itd been mis-sold to her 
and that key benefits hadnt been explained to her. She felt the price had unfairly increased 
over the years and she was unhappy that premiums werent being suspended or refunded 
when services werent available due to Covid-19.
BUPA said it wasnt possible to suspend or refund premiums under the terms of the contract. 
However, it also told her that it was committed to passing back any exceptional financial 
benefit to its members  which could be through a rebate, or other means. And it said that 
once things returned to normal, it would commission an independent review to work out the 
fairest way to do this. It told Mrs K that the premium increase was down to an annual 
inflation increase of around 14%, although shed benefited from a decrease due to not 
making any claims during the 2019-20 policy year. And it didnt agree that it had mis-sold the 
policy to Mrs K.
Mrs K was unhappy with the way BUPA had administered her policy, so she asked us to 
look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that BUPA 
had explained the fact that the Local Hospital Care policy didnt cover consultations unless 
they were post-procedure. So he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. He considered 
that ultimately, BUPA had calculated Mrs Ks renewal premium fairly. And he didnt think the 
policy terms and conditions allowed Mrs K to suspend her policy, or for a partial premium 
refund. While he appreciated that Mrs K felt the policy hadnt provided the cover shed 
expected it to, he was persuaded that it was fair for BUPA to review the overall impact of 
Covid-19 and commission a review with a view to passing back any exceptional financial 
benefit. Overall, he felt BUPA had treated Mrs K fairly.
Mrs K disagreed. Ive summarised her detailed response to our investigator. She felt shed 
been discriminated against due to age. Shed been a member of BUPAs schemes since the 
1980s and she felt premiums should be calculated based on an individual assessment of 
risk, rather than simply applying an age-related increase. In 2016, shed understood that 
shed pay for a first consultation upfront, but that all other consultations would be covered. 
As her husband has a serious condition which requires lots of checks, she understood these 
would be covered. And the majority of her claims were for outpatient costs. She argued that 
BUPA wasnt transparent in its pricing and that she hadnt been told about the lows claims 
bonus. 
She also considered that BUPA had calculated her premium incorrectly. She felt that BUPA 
was wrongly adding on Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) to the premium increase each year 
and this ought to be refunded.  BUPA had offered her the chance to switch to a new, 
cheaper policy, but if she took up this option, then all of her existing conditions would be 
excluded. She maintained that as Mr K had had appointments cancelled for reasons outside 
of his control, these should be reimbursed. She felt thered been changes to oncology cover. 
She was unhappy with the complaints process and also the renewal process. She felt BUPA 
lacked empathy and had acted negligently. And she said shed had no choice but to lapse 
her policy. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that BUPA hasnt had 
a chance to look into the issues Mrs K has now raised about the renewal of the policy in April 
2020 and information she was given at that point, or any changes to its oncology cover. So I 
wont be looking at those issues within this decision. If Mrs K would like to raise the way 
BUPA administered the renewal of her policy, or any changes it made to oncology cover, 
shell need to get in touch directly with BUPA to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, I dont think BUPA has done anything 
wrong which it needs to put right. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs K that while Ive summarised her detailed response to our 
investigator, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. In making my decision 
though, I havent commented on each and every point shes raised and our rules dont 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Did BUPA mis-sell the Local Care Hospital Plan in 2016?
Both BUPA and Mrs K have provided me with their records and recollections about the time 
of sale. Its clear, from all Ive seen, that BUPA didnt recommend that Mrs K should take out 
this policy. That means it didnt need to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to 
give her enough clear, fair and not misleading information so that she could check if the 
policy was right for her.
Ive listened to calls and Ive seen transcripts of some of the calls Mrs K had with BUPAs 
call handlers around the time she took out the policy. I can see from transcripts of those calls 
that the way the policy was worked was discussed with Mrs K. She was told that shed need to self-fund initial consultations, but after being in hospital, shed have a policy limit of £500. 
She was told that consultations prior to inpatient or day case treatment werent covered. This 
was reiterated during further calls  that before inpatient or day case treatment, therapies 
and consultations wouldnt be paid. It appears from the transcripts that this was recapped 
with Mrs K, so that she could make notes about the cover. So I think BUPAs call handlers 
gave Mrs K accurate information about what consultation cover the policy provided.
Mrs K was also sent a policy schedule setting out the cover and a new schedule at each 
renewal. I can see that a table of benefits sets out the following applicable cover for out-
patient consultations and therapies:
when directly related to private eligible daypatient or in-patient treatment and follows within 
six months of the discharge date of that treatment: up to £500 combined limit each year with 
a maximum of 2 consultations with a consultant during the six month period.
I think the totality of the information Mrs K was given about the cover the policy provided was 
clear enough for her to make an informed choice about whether or not to take it out. It 
follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold to her.
Did BUPA calculate Mrs Ks renewal premium fairly? 
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like this. We dont generally tell 
insurers what risks they should insure, how they should calculate risk or what risk factors 
they can take into account. And we dont generally tell them what price they should charge to 
cover those risks. BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to carry on insuring Mrs 
K after it reassesses the risk of a claim at each renewal. And, if it does, what price it needs 
to charge her to cover the risk. If it believes the risk has gone up, then its likely that it may 
well need to put up the price. 
But what I have been able to check Mrs K is whether or not BUPAs worked out its price 
fairly. So Ive looked at the factors BUPA has applied to calculate the premium. I also need 
to be satisfied that BUPAs treated Mrs K in the same way as any other policyholder BUPA 
insures in the same circumstances and hasnt singled her out in any way.
BUPAs explained the reasons why Mrs Ks premium increased. Its clear that BUPA has 
applied a general inflationary increase of 14.58% to Mrs Ks scheme, which applies to all of 
its policyholders in the same circumstances as Mrs K. This meant the overall cost of the 
policy went up. I also think BUPAs price explanation makes it clear that there might be a 
slight variation between the stark percentage and the actual final figure due to rounding. I 
also havent seen any evidence to make me think that BUPA has calculated IPT in an unfair 
or unreasonable way.
Based on what Ive seen, I think BUPAs treated Mrs K in the same way it would treat any 
policyholder in similar circumstances. Im satisfied its worked out Mrs Ks price in line with its 
internal guidelines and that its done this correctly. So I dont think BUPA has calculated her 
premium unfairly.
BUPA offered Mrs K a different, cheaper policy. Mrs K was unhappy with the fact that this 
policy wouldnt cover her existing conditions. As Ive explained, BUPAs able to decide 
whether or not it wishes to offer cover, or if so, on what terms. It isnt obliged to offer Mrs K a 
policy at a lower cost which includes cover for all of her existing conditions. If she wishes to 
take up a different policy with BUPA, its open to her to get in touch with it to do so.
Should BUPA refund the premiums Mr and Mrs K paid for Covid-19?When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mrs Ks complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of her contract with 
BUPA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy say her plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. 
BUPA provided cover under Mrs Ks private medical insurance policy from April 2019 to 
March 2020 and then from April 2020 until the policy lapsed. BUPA is entitled to retain the 
premium it charged to cover the risk of Mrs K making a claim during the policy year. And the 
terms of Mrs Ks plan set out her cancellation rights under the contract. These say that if she 
cancelled her policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy documents, or the cover 
start date, shed be entitled to a full refund of her premiums (unless any claims had been 
made). If Mrs K chose to cancel her policy at any point after 21 days, BUPA would refund 
the premiums shed paid after the date the cover ended. Theres no term in the contract 
which allows Mrs K to suspend the payment of premiums or to obtain a refund. So I think it 
was fair for BUPA to tell Mrs K that neither of these options were available to her.
And I dont think its accurate to say Mrs Ks policy was unusable. Depending on the type of 
medical treatment or services Mr or Mrs K required, BUPA couldve pre-authorised treatment 
to be carried out at a later date. And I note it offered to support its customers through the 
pandemic, by offering, amongst other things, remote consultations and expert advice.  I 
wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. BUPA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
BUPAs control. Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case to require BUPA to refund any premiums to Mrs K. 
BUPA initially told Mrs K that a third-party independent review would take place to see if 
thered been any exceptional financial benefit to it as a result of Covid-19, once itd had the 
chance to assess the impact of Covid-19 on claims. If so, then it committed to passing back 
any difference to its members by way of a refund or other appropriate method. I dont think 
this was an unfair position for BUPA to take. I say that because it agreed to pass on any 
unusual financial benefits to its members to recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on their 
ability to use their policies as usual. 
BUPAs website suggests that this review has now taken place and that eligible 
policyholders will receive a rebate between April and the end of July this year. I should say 
that theres no guarantee that Mrs K will be entitled to any refund in 2021 this is for BUPA 
to calculate. If Mrs K is unhappy with the way her rebate is calculated, she may be able to 
bring a new complaint to BUPA about that issue. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K but I wont be asking BUPA to do anything moreMy final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman