DRN-3778171
The complaint
Ms K complains that investment advice provided to her by The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited was unsuitable. She has a claims management company (CMC) 
representing her, which has said, in brief, that she was recommended to invest too much 
money at the wrong time and at an unsuitable level of risk.
What happened
In 2000 Ms K was advised to invest £15,000 split across three unit trusts  £6,000 into each 
of the UK Growth and the European Growth Trusts and the remaining £3,000 in the Environ 
Trust. 
At the time she was in her early 50s, retired but still maintaining a mortgage. She had an 
annual income of £11,000, which the fact-find completed at the time of the advice indicated 
left her with on £16 per month disposable income. She had £20,000 in savings and was 
categorised as having a balanced attitude to risk. 
Our investigator considered that the recommendation exposed Ms Ks money to too much 
risk, particularly given her circumstances at the time  she had recently taken early 
retirement due to health issues and hadnt had long to adjust to her new situation. He noted 
the high level of volatility the trusts in question were likely to have displayed and concluded 
that this wouldnt have been suitable for Ms K. He suggested that redress be paid to her on 
the basis that she shouldnt have been advised to take any risk. 
Royal London partly accepted this view. It said that it felt Ms K had been assessed for risk 
correctly but that the UK and European Growth Trust investments had been too large. It said 
it was prepared to pay the recommended redress in respect of these two trusts but felt the 
smaller Environ Trust recommendation had been acceptable.
The CMC, on Ms Ks behalf, didnt accept this, so the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I think the recommendation as a whole exposed Ms Ks money to investment 
risk that was inconsistent with her circumstances at the time. 
Its not clear how Ms K came to be categorised as having a balanced attitude to risk. She 
doesnt appear to have had any investment experience and it also doesnt seem that her 
circumstances supported such a categorisation. 
Shed taken early retirement on health grounds and while it was noted that she intended to 
return to work, at the time of the advice she was dependent for income on her occupational 
pension and incapacity benefit. As she was also still maintaining a mortgage it doesnt strike 
me as likely that she wouldve wanted to submit 75% of her modest savings to the level of 
risk associated with the three recommended trusts.  
They were all heavily reliant upon equity performance and it was noted in the key features 
document for the trusts that there were additional specific risks associated with the Environ 
Trust. It concentrated on a limited number of stocks, some in overseas markets, and small 
companies and, as such, there could be price movement not related to broader stock market 
movements. In effect, it acknowledged that this trust was likely to feature even greater 
potential volatility than the other two. 
This being so, Im unable to conclude that it was suitable for Ms K to be recommended 
investment in any of the trusts, at any level. I presume that Royal Londons suggestion that 
the £3,000 investment in the Environ Trust was acceptable is in respect of it being a more 
modest amount than was recommended for the other two trusts. But I dont think any amount 
invested wouldve been suitable for Ms K and I disagree that her categorisation as a 
balanced investor was reasonable or acceptable. 
Given the recent changes to Ms Ks circumstances and her reliance upon her pension and 
incapacity benefit at the time of the advice, I dont think she was in a position to take any 
degree of risk with any of her money. When, and if, she had started working again, some 
level of investment might have potentially become suitable  but even then, not at the level 
of risk associated with these three trusts. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms K 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Ms K would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Ms K's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Royal London do?
To compensate Ms K fairly, Royal London must:
Compare the performance of Ms K's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Royal London should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Three unit 
trust No longer in Average rate from Date of Date ceased 8% simple per 
year on any loss investments force fixed rate bonds investment to be held from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Royal London 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Royal London should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Royal London totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms K wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms K's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Ms K would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that the complaint should be upheld and that The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay compensation to Ms K as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman