DRN-3274884
The complaint
Ms S has complained about Zurich Insurance PLC because it has avoided her let property 
insurance (treated it as though its never existed).
What happened
In October 2018 a policy with Zurich was arranged for Ms Ss property (Property B). Zurich 
wasnt told during the application for that policy that Ms S and her husband (Mr S) had 
previously had a policy avoided (in 2011).
Ms S had another policy with Zurich for another commercial property, Property A. She was 
not the only policyholder for that cover. A loss in respect of Property A occurred and claims 
were made on the policy. During the course of its enquiries, Zurich discovered the previously 
avoided policy. It said if it had been told about the avoided policy it wouldnt have offered 
Ms S the policy for Property B. So, Zurich said, it was avoiding Ms Ss policy for Property B.
Ms S was unhappy and complained. Shes been represented at times by her son and Mr S. 
They said that the policy which had been avoided was for Mr S and Ms Ss home and that, at 
the time of the 2011 avoidance, Ms S had been so ill she was unaware of what had 
happened. And, in fact, Mr S explained that even he felt, having dealt with the issue at the 
time, that there hadnt been any true avoidance of the previous policy because his bank had 
reinstated the cover. He also said that their policies in the years since hadnt been affected 
by any increased premiums. He presented an email from the bank which confirmed that a 
policy, reference beginning HIA, had been cancelled by him, and replaced with another 
policy, the reference for which began HDA. Zurich said the evidence from the bank wasnt 
sufficient as it didnt give full details of the policy. Whilst it didnt explain this to Ms S, the 
evidence it had received from the previous insurer was that it was a policy with a reference 
beginning HDA (and ending 5529) which had been avoided. 
Ms S remained unhappy. Her representatives reiterated that Ms S had been very ill when the 
previous policy had been avoided and that none of them had known about the avoidance 
until Zurichs loss adjuster mentioned it during the course of the claims for Property A. A 
complaint about Zurichs actions in respect of the policy on which Ms S was a joint 
policyholder was considered by our investigator. No specific or separate findings were 
issued about Ms Ss complaint about the policy she held in her sole name. So I issued a 
provisional decision to share my views on that with both parties.
In short, I said I wasnt minded to uphold it. Ms S, via her representatives, indicated she was 
unhappy about this. They reiterated that Ms S had been very ill when the previous policy had 
been avoided, and said she remained ill in 2018. Evidence was provided to show Ms Ss 
health in 2011 and through into 2018 had been poor. I asked them then to explain how and 
who had arranged the policy in 2018 for Property B. I received the following answer:
[Mr S] took out the policies [for property A and B] via a broker.over the phone and was 
acting as an agent on instruction from [the other policyholders for Property A]. [Ms S] had 
absolutely no part to play in taking any of the policies or providing instruction.
Ms Ss representatives also said and asked the following:
[Ms Ss] affairs are dealt with by [Mr S] due to symptoms..suffered [as a] result of her 
chronic illness.
[Ms S] has never had any input into taking out the insurance policies, should she be 
penalised for a mistake that was not her own even though she had taken reasonable care to 
represent herself in the best way she could.
They also queried the avoidance from the perspective of what other insurers, and even 
Zurich itself had done, in respect of other policies once the 2011 avoidance had been 
identified. In short, they arent convinced that, given these actions, Zurich is dealing with 
Ms Ss policy for Property B fairly.  
The representatives also argued that the 2011 avoidance was unfair and shouldnt be 
allowed to stand. They said theyd like the details of this reviewing.
They also said that the question asked by Zurich in 2018, when cover was arranged, was 
unclear. They said that, whilst Mr S maintains that he was unaware of the 2011 avoidance 
still being an issue, Zurich only asked to be told about policy cancellations. It didnt ask a 
question about having had a policy avoided. They emphasized that in answering this 
question there was no deliberate intent to mislead and it was only the answer to this one 
question that they got wrong.
I noted the new evidence and information supplied, all of which I needed to take into 
account. Therefore, I issued a second provisional decision which superseded my initial 
findings, making them null and void. But I was still minded to not uphold the complaint. My 
findings from my second provisional decision were:  
2011 avoidance
The parties would like me to review the fairness of the 2011 avoidance as part of my 
determination of this complaint about Zurichs decision to avoid the commercial policy 
arranged in 2018. I cant. Zurich was not the insurer for the policy that was avoided in 2011. 
All I can look at is what Zurich did when it found out about the 2011 avoidance and whether, 
given the relevant law and circumstances, that was fair and reasonable.
Relevant law
This is a commercial policy, for a property which is let commercially (at least in part, Im not 
sure if the premises comprise residential living accommodation too). Ms S owns this property 
solely, and Property A in part. She is also a joint owner, with Mr S, of their home. I note its 
been said that Mr S arranged the policy for Property B (although whilst Mr S was not acting 
as Ms Ss agent). And I see that Mr S, via the broker, administers and manages a number of 
policies for properties owned by his and Ms Ss family, with Mr S himself being a joint owner 
of two of the properties he manages the insurance arrangements for. With one of those 
properties being let commercially. So I think its fair to view Ms S as a commercial customer. 
In the circumstances, the relevant law which I reasonably need to apply when considering 
this complaint is the Insurance Act 2015.
What the Insurance Act requires
When an insurer is dealing with commercial customers, it doesnt have to ask clear 
questions of them in order to let them know what information it wants them to disclose. 
Rather the Insurance Act requires the commercial customer to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In other words the commercial customer is expected to know what the 
insurer might want to be told about and disclose everything in that respect to it. 
Here Zurich did choose to ask some questions of its prospective policyholder. But if those 
questions didnt ask the prospective policyholder about everything it wanted to know about, 
that doesnt matter. Because the prospective policyholders obligations under the Insurance 
Act are to tell it everything likely to be important to it, whether directly asked about or not. 
And they must tell it everything they ought to know as well as everything they do know. And, 
in respect of what they ought to know, the Act says this is anything that should reasonably 
have been revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them.
Fair presentation of the risk
Most insurers, when deciding what risk the prospective policyholder presents, will want to be 
told about previous avoidances. Ms S did have a previous policy avoided. It isnt clear to me 
if Ms S herself knew about that avoidance, and I take on board how poorly shes been over a 
number of years. However, I have to bear in mind that the Insurance Act makes no 
allowance for that. The Act says that the insured, Ms S, should tell the insurer anything she 
ought to know. Ive explained above what that means, and its quite a wide-ranging 
definition with emphasis on what reasonably could have been found out by the insured if 
theyd done some checks.  
But it also isnt entirely clear to me how involved Ms S was in arranging the policy for 
Property B. Ms Ss representatives say she took care to represent herself in the best way 
she could, that she had no part in arranging the policy and that Mr S arranged the policy  
but not whilst acting as her agent, but that he deals with all her affairs. But, given the email 
correspondence Ive seen between Mr S and the broker, I think its most likely that Mr S did 
arrange this cover on Ms Ss behalf. And Mr S was named on the policy which was avoided 
in 2011. Further, and regardless of Ms Ss clear poor health; Ms S, and/or whomever 
represented her, had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to Zurich. 
So Ive considered whether Mr Ss recollection of what happened in 2011 means that he 
didnt know or ought to have known about the avoidance. I note Mr S was named on the 
policy which was avoided (as was Ms S). And he says he dealt with the arrangements for his 
and Ms Ss home at that time because Ms S was too ill to do so. Mr S seems to have 
believed that the 2011 avoidance was overcome or discharged in some way by the bank 
which had arranged the policy which was avoided. And he says he recalls the bank manager 
putting cover back in place for him. However, I think Mr S is mistaken in his memory of what 
happened. It seems unlikely to me that a bank manager could over-ride an insurers 
decision in this way, and Mr Ss recollection simply isnt borne out by the policy details that 
have been shared with us about the cover for Mr S and Ms Ss home from around the time of 
the 2011 avoidance. In short, no new policy was put in place around the time the 2011 
avoidance occurred. Mr Ss mistake in understanding and remembering what happened in 
2011 means that when he arranged the cover for Property B, he failed to tell Zurich about 
the avoidance. But making a mistake doesnt mean he shouldnt ought to have known what 
really happened. The correct details were available to him (or Ms S), but he didnt check 
because he was mistaken. I dont think a fair presentation was made to Zurich. 
Id add that not all insurers view risks in the same way. And theyre entitled to set their own 
criteria in this respect  as long as they apply it to everyone in similar circumstances. So 
whilst Ms S is aware of an insurer that isnt bothered by the 2011 avoidance, that doesnt 
mean that Zurich has acted unfairly because it views that as an unacceptable risk. Further, 
I know it is felt that Mr S and Ms Ss home insurance hasnt been affected in the years since 
the 2011 avoidance  but I dont know if the avoidance has been declared by them on those 
policies  either when one renewed in spring 2012, or when further policies were arranged in 2015. But again, how the insurer for those policies  or any others that have existed  chose 
to view the risk posed by the 2011 avoidance was up to it (if it knew about it). None of those 
issues speak to the reasonableness of the action Zurich decided to take based on its 
perception of risk, in the circumstances at hand and in respect of the policy and 
policyholder(s) in question.
Failure to make a fair presentation
Im satisfied that Ms S and/or her representative failed to make a fair presentation to Zurich 
when the policy for Property B was arranged. Im also satisfied that, but for that failure, 
Zurich wouldnt have offered the policy. In that circumstance the Insurance Act allows Zurich 
to avoid the contract and refuse all claims. Whilst no claim was made on this policy, Zurich 
has avoided the contract. The Act does require though that Zurich returns the policy 
premium, and I understand it has done so. I think its acted fairly and reasonably.   
Zurich didnt object to my findings. Ms S, via a representative, said she didnt agree with 
them.
The representative said:
It isnt uncommon for small businesses to be treated like consumers with vulnerable 
non-consumers needing protection. The policyholder here is a small time landlord. So 
should be treated as a consumer, not a commercial client. A previous article issued by 
this service discusses the point of misrepresentation. 
He is concerned that Zurich has acted as it has in respect of this policy because it 
suspects the policyholder did something malicious  which is not the case. In fact, 
shes never acted in bad faith. 
Whilst Mr S may have made a mistake, the policyholder wasnt made aware of the 
implications of her choices.
It is a concern that Zurich doesnt seem to be dealing consistently with the previous 
avoidance as it has taken different action in respect of three different policies held with it. 
And the bank which had held the policy in 2011 has provided cover since, including 
paying out on claims. He thinks that is inconsistent and feels there should be a 
consistent approach across the industry. 
Insurers always have the ability to apply discretion and it seems Zurich is reluctant to do 
so here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service will, where appropriate, take a view as to whether a commercial customer 
should be treated as a consumer would be. That is because we accept that some 
commercial customers are not sophisticated and, as such, we take the view that it wouldnt 
be fair to treat them in the same way sophisticated commercial customers would be. In 
determining whether we think a complainant is a sophisticated customer or an  
unsophisticated consumer, I take into account a number of factors. And I explained 
provisionally why I think Ms S here should reasonably be treated as a commercial customer. 
Nothing Ive seen in reply gives me cause to change my mind on that.
Whilst I note the article the representative found, I see we produced it in 2005. That was 
quite some time ago, and pre-dates the Insurance Act. I also see from the articles content 
that its focus was on disputes involving consumers, not commercial customers, and 
insurers. The article refers to the insurer needing to ask clear questions of the policyholder. And, as I explained provisionally, the Insurance Act doesnt set out any such obligation upon 
insurers. The issue to answer under the Insurance Act is whether the policyholder made a 
fair presentation of the risk to the insurer based not just on what was knew, but what ought 
to have been known. If that didnt happen, and as it is, in this case, that Zurich has shown 
that it would never have offered this policy if it had known, then the insurer is entitled to 
avoid the policy. 
I realised when I made my provisional decision that Mr S had likely made no more than a 
mistake when applying for cover. And I think Zurich accepts that. I say that not least as 
I note it returned the policy premium, whereas when a policyholder has acted deliberately to 
mislead an insurer, the Insurance Act allows the insurer to keep the premium paid. But, all 
the same, I felt the avoidance was something Mr S ought to have known to disclose.
I note the representative has now argued that Ms S wasnt given a clear enough warning 
about the need to provide Zurich with the right information. But, she wasnt dealing directly 
with Zurich, rather Mr S represented her in arranging the cover. As such, as I explained 
provisionally, and whilst Mr S arranged the policy via a broker, it was always his 
responsibility to ensure a fair presentation of the policyholders risk was given to Zurich. The 
difficultly for Ms S here is that Mr S, when the policy was arranged, was labouring under a 
misunderstanding about the 2011 avoidance. I dont think that any warnings from Zurich, 
even if I felt such should have been given, would likely have changed that. 
In making its decision Im satisfied that Zurich acted in line with the relevant law and in 
respect of the relevant criteria which applied to this policy. And it may help Ms S to 
understand that most insurers offer more than one type of cover, and that for each type of 
cover it is not uncommon for different risk criteria to apply. Further, when an insurer is 
offering cover, it will apply the relevant risk criteria to the policyholder in question but usually 
only based on what its been told by them. So each instance is looked at in specific detail. 
I explain this as it may help Ms S understand why Zurich, and other insurers she has 
dealings with, have taken different decisions on other policies to the one Zurich has made 
here in respect of this policy for Ms S. But also to assure Ms S that there is a consistent way 
in which these situations are considered. That approach though, based on the relevant law 
which allows the individual insurer to refer in each case to what they were told and what their 
specific risk criteria is, simply and naturally generates different outcomes.
Zurich did have the ability to overlook the misrepresentation if it had wanted to. But, I cant 
reasonably fault it just because it chose not to do so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zurich Insurance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman