DRN-4226268
The complaint
Miss A believes PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SA acted irresponsibly by agreeing two 
revolving credit accounts shed applied for, and by increasing the credit limits on one of 
these accounts.
What happened
On 8 March 2018, Miss A opened a revolving credit account with PayPal. They provided her 
with a credit limit of £250 which was increased to £500 on 31 May 2019, and again to £550 
on 31 December 2019. The minimum payment on this account was the greater of £5 or 1% 
of the outstanding balance i.e. £5 a month when the limits were £250 and £500, rising to 
£5.50 a month if Miss A used the full £550 limit. 
This account was closed on 7 May 2021. Miss A had maintained payments to this, without 
going into arrears, for the lifetime of the account.
On 19 September 2021 she opened a second revolving credit account with PayPal and was 
provided with a credit limit of £1,500. The minimum payment on this account was set as the 
greater of £5 or 2% of the outstanding balance i.e. £30 a month if Miss A used the full 
£1,500 limit.
Miss A stopped making payments in April 2022. In September 2022, when six consecutive 
payments had been missed, PayPal defaulted the account.
Miss A has complained that PayPal didnt act responsibly when approving the accounts or 
credit limit increases. Shes said she had a poor credit history and the high interest rates 
meant that she was only ever able to afford the minimum payments. Shes also unhappy 
that, now shes unable to make any payments to PayPal, they are harassing her and 
charging late fees, all of which has adversely affected her health. PayPal didnt agree theyd 
acted irresponsibly, so Miss A brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, while PayPal had conducted a credit check prior to each 
application or credit limit increase, these didnt show any cause for concern. Theyd 
calculated Miss As affordability based on the mid-point of a declared income and 
expenditure range and, taking the lowest point of the declared income range, and the 
highest point of the declared expenditure range (for the first application and subsequent 
credit limit increases) this wouldve meant that Miss A didnt have sufficient disposable 
income to sustainably repay any credit limit she used. So, he didnt think PayPals checks 
had been reasonable or proportionate.
However, when the investigator considered Miss As bank statements at the time of the initial 
application and subsequent credit limit increases, he said that she had sufficient disposable 
income to support payments to PayPal. So, he didnt think theyd acted unreasonably by 
agreeing either the initial application or the subsequent credit limit increases.
With regards to the second application, the investigator again said that PayPal had carried 
out a credit check that caused no concerns. And that the information provided by Miss A on 
the application showed she could comfortably afford the payments. So, he thought theyd 
done reasonable and proportionate checks, and needed to do nothing further.
Miss A didnt agree. And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did PayPal complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
A would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did PayPal make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss A 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did PayPal act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that PayPal didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss As 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did PayPal complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss A would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
PayPal have said that, as part of every application for credit they receive, they undertake 
eligibility, creditworthiness, and affordability checks. And they do this by reviewing the 
customers credit file and the information disclosed by the customer, including their monthly 
income and expenditure. Theyve said they carried out these standard checks for Miss A.
PayPal have also explained that the information they receive from the credit reference 
agencies is by way of a complex data file which they havent been able to provide. 
However, they have provided details of what they say each credit file request showed in 
relation to defaulted or delinquent accounts. However, they havent provided any information 
relating to Miss As existing credit commitments at the time of each application / credit limit 
increase.
In addition to this, PayPal have used Miss As declaration of her monthly income and 
expenditure to check affordability. And this declaration had been by way of a range, not an 
actual figure, for example an income of between £500 and £1,000 a month, and expenditure 
of between £250 and £500 a month. Given that, for the first application and subsequent 
credit limit increases, the lower level of income declared is the same as the upper level of 
expenditure declared, this could feasibly leave Miss A with no disposable income each 
month. And PayPal havent evidenced that theyve taken any steps to confirm what Miss As 
actual monthly income and expenditure were.So, based on what Ive seen and PayPals comments, even though the initial credit limit was 
only £250, Im not satisfied that reasonable checks were carried out. And I think that PayPal 
shouldve carried out more checks to establish Miss As actual income and expenditure, to 
see whether this account, and all subsequent credit limit increases, were affordable for her.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss A would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Miss A has provided a copy of her credit file dated 23 January 2023. While this is dated after 
any application or credit limit increase, Im satisfied that the historic data contained within 
this report will give a good indication of the information PayPal wouldve received when they 
checked her credit file.
Miss A has also provided her bank statements for the periods before any application or 
credit limit increase. While I wouldnt necessarily have expected PayPal to ask for bank 
statements, I think these statements give a good indication of what PayPal would likely have 
discovered if theyd asked about Miss As income and expenditure at the time of each 
application and credit limit increase.
first agreement  credit limit £250
PayPal approved this application on 8 March 2018. At the time, Miss As credit file showed 
she had a credit card with a £700 credit limit. She was also paying two phone providers and 
a water supplier. All the payments to these had been made and there were no arrears. In 
addition, the credit file showed that Miss A had a bank account which had been conducted 
within any overdraft limit. Finally, there were no defaults or county court judgements.
Ive considered Miss As bank statements from 2 December 2017 to 1 March 2018, which is 
the three-month period immediately prior to the agreement being approved. These show that 
she received an average income of £899 a month (from benefits). They also show that her 
average monthly expenditure for water, energy, phones, insurances, the DVLA, TV Licence, 
and council tax was £257. Miss A has explained that, because she was on benefits, her rent 
was paid direct to her landlord, and it wasnt something she was responsible for.
The bank statements also show that Miss A wasnt using her credit card.
While I appreciate that Miss A was in receipt of benefits, this isnt a reason why PayPal 
shouldve automatically declined her application. And it would be unfair of them to deny her 
access to credit just for this reason. Instead, Id expect them to consider her financial 
circumstances when making any application.
Based on what Ive seen, Miss A had £642 disposable income each month from which to 
pay food, clothing etc., as well as any discretionary bills. And Im satisfied that was sufficient 
to support the finance PayPal approved, and from which to repay any outstanding balance in 
a sustainable way. 
first agreement - credit limit increase to £500
PayPal approved this credit limit increase on 31 May 2019. At the time, Miss As credit file 
showed she had a credit card with a £700 credit limit, and a loan for which she was paying 
£92 a month. She was also paying two phone providers, a water supplier, and an insurance 
company. All the payments to these had been made and there were no arrears. In addition, 
the credit file showed that Miss A had a bank account which had been conducted within any 
overdraft limit. Finally, there were no defaults or county court judgements.Ive considered Miss As bank statements from 1 March 2019 to 31 May 2019, which is the 
three-month period immediately prior to the credit limit increase being approved. These 
show that she received an average income of £899 a month (from benefits). They also show 
that her average monthly expenditure for water, energy, phones, insurances, the DVLA, TV 
Licence, council tax, and her loan was £324. The bank statements also show that Miss A 
wasnt using her credit card.
Based on what Ive seen, Miss A had £575 disposable income each month from which to 
pay food, clothing etc., as well as any discretionary bills. And Im satisfied that was sufficient 
to support the credit limit increase PayPal approved  especially given that the actual 
minimum payment didnt change due to this being fixed at at least £5, and from which to 
repay any outstanding balance in a sustainable way. 
first agreement  credit limit increase to £550
PayPal approved this credit limit increase on 31 December 2019. At the time, Miss As credit 
file showed she had a credit card with a £700 credit limit, and a loan for which she was 
paying £92 a month. She was also paying a phone provider, and a water supplier. All the 
payments to these had been made and there were no arrears. In addition, the credit file 
showed that Miss A had two bank accounts which had been conducted within any overdraft 
limits. Finally, there were no defaults or county court judgements.
Ive considered Miss As bank statements from 1 October 2019 to 31 December 2019, which 
is the three-month period immediately prior to the credit limit increase being approved. 
These show that she received an average income of £1,905 a month (from benefits). They 
also show that her average monthly expenditure for water, energy, phones, insurances, the 
DVLA, TV Licence, council tax, and her loan was £398. The bank statements also show that 
Miss A wasnt using her credit card.
Based on what Ive seen, Miss A had £1,507 disposable income each month from which to 
pay food, clothing etc., as well as any discretionary bills. And Im satisfied that was sufficient 
to support the credit limit increase PayPal approved, and from which to repay any 
outstanding balance in a sustainable way. 
second agreement  credit limit £1,500
PayPal approved this application on 19 September 2021. At the time, Miss As credit file 
showed she had three credit cards with a combined £4,900 credit limit and four revolving 
credit agreements with a combined credit limit of £2,375. She was also paying a phone 
provider and a water supplier. All the payments to these had been made and there were no 
arrears. In addition, the credit file showed that Miss A had two bank accounts which had 
been conducted within any overdraft limits. Finally, there were no defaults or county court 
judgements.
Ive considered Miss As bank statements from 21 June to 31 August 2021, which is the two 
and a half months period immediately prior to the agreement being approved. These show 
that she received an average income of £2,321 a month (from benefits). They also show that 
her average monthly expenditure for water, energy, phones, insurances, the DVLA, TV 
Licence, council tax, and her loan was £274. The bank statements also show that Miss A 
wasnt using any of her credit cards or revolving credit agreements.Based on what Ive seen, Miss A had £2,047 disposable income each month from which to 
pay food, clothing etc., as well as any discretionary bills. And Im satisfied that was sufficient 
to support the credit limit increase PayPal approved, and from which to repay any 
outstanding balance in a sustainable way. 
Did PayPal act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think PayPal acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
So, taking all of the above into consideration Im satisfied that, had PayPal carried out 
proportionate checks at the time of each application and credit limit increase, they wouldve 
seen that the finance was affordable on each occasion. Im therefore satisfied they acted 
responsibly when approving the applications / credit limit increases. As such, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss As complaint about PayPal (Europe) 
Sarl et Cie SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman