DRN-3670495
Complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected their claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr and Mrs L bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr and Mrs L into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Initially, Shawbrook didnt respond so the complaint was passed to our service. At this time, 
Shawbrook agreed that the solar panels had been misrepresented and made an offer to 
settle the complaint. Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. 
She asked Shawbrook to provide a full breakdown of its offer and explain how it had worked 
out redress as it didnt appear to have included interest. On review of Shawbrooks offer, 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative also queried how Shawbrook had worked out redress and 
whether it was in line with our established approach to these types of cases. 
Shawbrook didnt respond so, our adjudicator wrote to Shawbrook and explained that, while 
she agreed that the solar panels had been misrepresented, and that Shawbrook should offer 
to settle the case, she wasnt satisfied that the offer had been calculated in line with our 
established approach to these cases. She explained that where a customer was deprived of 
money, that they would otherwise have had access to, we would expect interest to be paid 
on those amounts. 
Shawbrook didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
As Shawbrook has already agreed to uphold the complaint, I dont need to consider whether 
the solar panel system was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs L. The only matter left for me to 
decide is how to put things right. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case and Shawbrook should carry out a redress calculation 
in line with our established approach to these cases. 
Fair compensation  what Shawbrook needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs L
For the avoidance of any doubt, I set out how we would expect Shawbrook to carry out this 
calculation. To clarify, our approach to redress is that Shawbrook should put things right by 
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr 
and Mrs L from the solar panels over a 10-year period so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs L are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr and Mrs L by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr and Mrs Ls loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs L in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. Ive seen no reason why this element of the 
redress should not be included in this case. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs L have the following options as to 
how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs L and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs L and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs L accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs L have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest.
If Mr and Mrs L have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs L paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs L receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs L paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs L receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount they 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-fundingI can see Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs L for the trouble and 
upset caused, and I think thats a fair offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman