DRN-3099152
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank plc trading as Ulster Bank (formerly Ulster 
Bank Limited) gave him incorrect information when it told him it had placed a stop on a 
cheque hed written. He also complains about poor service.
  
What happened
Mr M had a business current account with Ulster Bank. He says he contacted it on 3 
December 2019 and asked it to place a stop on a cheque hed written. He says he was 
told that the cheque had been stopped. Later that day he noticed the cheque had been re- 
credited to his account. So, he believed it had been stopped.
Mr M says hed used the cheque to pay for a vehicle which turned out to be faulty. That 
was why hed stopped the cheque. After hed stopped the cheque hed taken certain 
actions. These included repaying a loan which hed obtained from another company (C) to 
finance the purchase and returning the vehicle to the vendor (V).
A few days after taking these actions Mr M says Ulster Bank debited the cheque to his 
account. This meant that his account exceeded the overdraft limit and he incurred fees and 
interest. He says direct debits were also returned unpaid and Ulster Bank asked him to 
make a lodgement to bring the account back within the agreed overdraft limit.
Mr M says Ulster Bank was rude to him when he contacted it about what had happened. 
He says it didnt follow its own complaints procedure and refused to re-credit the cheque 
amount to his account. He complained to Ulster Bank.
Ulster Bank investigated his complaint. It acknowledged that it had given him incorrect 
information when hed contacted it to place a stop on the cheque. It said it shouldnt have 
told him it could place a stop on the cheque because it had already been presented for 
payment the day before hed phoned. It apologised for the distress hed experienced as a 
result and agreed to waive fees and interest debited to his account. In total it said it would 
waive £198.96. It also offered to pay him £45 for distress and inconvenience. But, it said it 
wouldnt re-credit his account with the amount of the cheque and he would need to 
contact V himself to seek recovery of the funds.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this response. He complained to our service. At the same time, he 
also instructed solicitors to try to recover the funds from V.
Mr M told us the funds were recovered in September 2020 and his solicitor sent him these 
monies in November 2020. He says he hasnt credited this money to his account with Ulster 
Bank.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that it was already too late to stop the 
cheque when Mr M had contacted Ulster Bank. But he said Mr M had been given incorrect 
information and as a result his expectations were unfairly raised. He thought Ulster Bank 
had already compensated Mr M for the direct financial loss hed incurred as a result of this 
when it had refunded the fees and interest to his account.
Our investigator thought Mr M shouldve taken steps after hed been told about what had 
happened to mitigate his loss. So, he thought he shouldve credited funds to his Ulster Bank 
account to bring it back within the limit and reduce further fees and interest. He didnt think 
Ulster Bank should reimburse Mr M for his legal fees since it was his own choice to instruct 
solicitors.
He agreed that Mr M had experienced distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened. So, he thought Ulster Bank should pay him an additional amount of £150 
because of this.
Mr M didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was it too late to stop the cheque when Mr M phoned Ulster Bank?
Ive listened carefully to the call that Mr M made when he placed the stop on the 
cheque. That call was made on 3 December 2019. The call was relatively short.
Mr M provided Ulster Bank with his sort code and account number and details of the 
cheque. He asked for the cheque to be stopped. Ive set out below the part of the 
conversation where Mr M receives several assurances that the cheque has been 
stopped:
Ulster Bank Thats stopped now for you  anything else today? 
Mr M  Is that that stopped  is it?
Ulster Bank Yeah  thats stopped now
Mr M As long as that cheques stopped
Ulster Bank Thats grand  so thats cancelled  alright 
Mr M Thank you very much
So, Mr M was told three times during this call that the cheque had been stopped. It is 
also the case that the adviser made a note on the Banks records stating that the 
cheque had been stopped.
Ive listened to two further calls  one on the 5 December and another on the 7 
December. During the call on 5 December Mr M was told that there was a stop on the 
cheque, the cheque hadnt debited the account and the stop was still in place. On 7 
December  which was a day after the cheque had debited the account, Ulster 
Banks adviser told Mr M that he didnt know why the cheque had debited the account 
because he could see that the stop had been placed on the cheque.
Ulster Bank says it has procedures that it follows when a cheque is stopped and 
there is a script that should be followed by its advisers to warn customers that all stop 
instructions are subject to final checks. But none of that happened here. There was 
no conditionality or warnings, about the stop instruction, given to Mr M on 3 
December or during the two subsequent calls on 5 December and 7 December.Given the words that were used during the calls on 3 December and 5 December, Im 
satisfied that Mr M was entitled to rely on the assurances hed been given about the 
stop having been placed on the cheque.
Ulster Bank says that on the date when Mr M first telephoned it (3 December 2019), 
the cheque had already been presented and a decision made to pay the cheque. It 
says that had happened on 2 December 2019.
I asked Ulster Bank to provide me with a copy of the audit trail for this cheque which 
should be available from the Image Clearing System (ICS). Id just point out that 
since the start of 2019 for current accounts, all sterling cheques in the UK are cleared 
using the ICS. This has meant that cheques are cleared much faster. Cheques can 
now be cleared shortly after 00.01am (one minute after midnight) on the day after 
theyve been paid into a current account.
Ulster Bank has now provided details from the ICS records. These show that the 
cheque was lodged to Vs account on 2 December 2019 and was paid on 3 
December 2019.
Ive also looked at other evidence Ulster Bank provided here. Having done so, Im 
persuaded, on balance, that it supports what Ulster Bank has said about the date the 
cheque was paid. Ill explain why.
On 5 December 2019 the Ulster Bank Reconciliations team received an email from 
the part of its Group which dealt with cheque clearing. That email highlighted an item 
which was outstanding on Ulster Banks Rejected Transaction account with a 
statement date of 3 December 2019. The item was for the same amount as the 
cheque Mr M had stopped and the narrative was 34  which was the cheque 
number hed stopped. This confirms the information received from ICS.
The Rejected Transaction account shows that there were two amounts debited to 
Ulster Banks account  both for the same amount. One was dated 29 November 
2019  which Mr M says was before hed given the cheque to V. So, he says that 
entry cannot relate to his cheque. The second entry was dated 3 December 2019.
The email correspondence with the Branch appears to link the entry on
29 November with Mr Ms cheque. That was an error on its part. And, Ulster Bank 
has now confirmed that the entry on 29 November had nothing to do with Mr Ms 
cheque.
But, having looked at the Rejected Transactions account and the information from 
ICS, Im satisfied that the second entry dated 3 December did relate to Mr Ms 
cheque. As Ive said it was the same amount as his cheque and the narrative stated 
34 which was the cheque number.
The statement for the Rejected Transactions account shows that this item had been 
paid and the internal account needed to be credited. The internal account could only 
be credited when the cheque was debited to Mr Ms account.
Its not clear exactly what time the cheque had been paid. As Ive mentioned above if 
V had paid the cheque into his bank account on the date Mr M gave it to him then it 
couldve been paid at any time after 00.01am on 3 December 2019. The ICS records 
indicate that V did lodge the cheque to his bank account on 2 December 2019. So, 
its likely that under the image clearing process for cheques, the cheque was paid 
shortly after midnight on that date.Mr M placed the stop on the cheque at around 5.20pm on 3 December. And, having 
looked at the internal account entries, I think it was too late for him to stop the 
cheque.
But, that doesnt change my view, as mentioned above, that because of what he was 
told during the calls on 3 December and 5 December, he was entitled to rely on the 
assurances hed been given about the stop having been placed on the cheque. And, I 
think his subsequent actions need to be considered in that context.
What steps did Mr M take as a result of the assurances he was given?
Mr M says he placed the stop on the cheque because the vehicle hed purchased, 
and paid for with the cheque, was faulty. Believing the cheque to have been stopped 
he returned the vehicle to V on 3 December 2019. The next day he received a call 
from Ulster Bank querying how hed stopped the cheque. And he received a further 
call the next day. These calls were made by branch staff  so there is no recording of 
the calls that I can listen to.
Mr M is adamant that he wasnt told at any stage during these calls that the stop 
hadnt been placed  he was just asked to provide more details about how he had 
informed Ulster Bank to stop the cheque. What hes said here is consistent with the 
information he was given on the recorded calls which Ive listened to on 5 December 
and 7 December. So, I accept what hes said.
On 5 December 2019 Mr M repaid the loan hed obtained from C.
It wasnt until the evening of the 6 December 2019 that Mr M checked his bank 
account and realised that the cheque had been debited that day. This left his account 
in excess of its authorised overdraft limit.
Mr M says he was very distressed as a result of this and he made further calls to 
Ulster Bank. On 9 December 2019 Ulster Bank phoned him. It told him that the 
cheque had been presented and the decision to pay the cheque had been made on 2 
December. So, the cheque hadnt been stopped. Ulster Bank told him he needed to 
speak to V if he wanted the funds returned and there was nothing more it could do. 
Mr M expressed his disagreement with what he was being told. He said he wouldnt 
be doing anything to contact V because he had stopped the cheque.
It is the case that Mr M did take further action to try to recover the funds. He 
instructed solicitors and in November 2020, he did recover all of the funds from V. 
Ulster Bank has continued to pursue Mr M for the overdrawn balance on his account. 
Hes provided evidence to show that hes received a Notice of Default and a notice 
informing him that Ulster Bank is terminating all his banking facilities with it.
What needs to be done to put things right
Having considered everything here, Ive provisionally decided that its fair and 
reasonable to require Ulster Bank to compensate Mr M for the financial loss, distress 
and inconvenience he experienced when he relied on the incorrect assurances given 
to him by Ulster Bank.
Where, as happened here, a customer has relied on incorrect information, I need to 
consider how he changed his position as a result and what (if any) detriment he 
suffered as a consequence of that change in position. In order to assess that, its important to try to understand what Mr M wouldve done had Ulster Bank given him 
the correct information when he contacted it on 3 December 2019. I can then 
compare that to the outcome that happened.
I asked Mr M to comment on what he thought he would have done if Ulster Bank had 
told him it was too late to stop the cheque.
He says its difficult for him to say precisely what he wouldve done. He says the 
vehicle was defective and therefore it had to be returned. When he did return it, he 
honestly believed that the cheque had been stopped. If hed known that it was too 
late to stop the cheque he says he wouldnt have repaid the loan to C until some 
clarity came to the situation. So, he says his current account with Ulster Bank 
wouldnt have been severely overdrawn.
I accept that its difficult for Mr M to be precise about what he wouldve done if hed 
been given the correct information. But, he says he thinks he wouldnt have accepted 
the vehicle because it was faulty, and he wouldnt have (immediately) repaid the loan 
to C. I think thats probably correct.
The loan from C
I asked Mr M to provide me with details about the nature of the loan hed received 
from C.
Ive looked at this agreement. The rate of interest was 5.6% per year. Mr M was 
required to make monthly payments over a 30-month period.
So, if Mr M hadnt ended the agreement when he did, he wouldve still been required 
to make the monthly payments until he was able to repay the loan in full. But, his 
current account wouldnt have exceeded its arranged overdraft. That means that 
direct debits wouldnt have been returned unpaid and he would still have been able to 
utilise any balance remaining on his arranged overdraft for the day to day purposes of 
his business. Ive taken this into account when deciding what Ulster Bank needs to do 
to put things right.
Legal Costs
Although Ive decided that Ulster Bank gave incorrect assurances to Mr M on which 
he relied, it is the case that he had a duty to mitigate his loss. He has taken steps to 
do that. He instructed a solicitor and did recover the funds in full.
Ive thought about whether Ulster Bank should be required to refund Mr M for the 
legal costs he incurred.
If Ulster Bank had given Mr M the correct information, its likely he would still have 
needed to pursue V to recover the amount hed paid V for the vehicle. And, given Vs 
refusal to repay that amount, I think its likely he wouldve needed to take legal action 
against V. So, Im persuaded he would probably still have incurred some legal costs. 
When thinking about this, Ive taken into account the fact that because he relied on 
the incorrect information, his current account exceeded the limit. This impacted his 
business in terms of cash flow and also in terms of returned payments. So, I think the 
actions of Ulster Bank created a greater imperative for him to take legal action than 
might otherwise have been the case.If hed been told it was too late to stop the cheque, he probably wouldve sought legal 
advice before returning the vehicle. And Im persuaded this also may have 
strengthened his position when seeking recovery of the money from V.
In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable that Ulster Bank should make 
a contribution towards the legal costs. I think it would be fair to refund him 50% of 
these. Hes furnished a copy of his solicitors costs which were £750 plus VAT of 
£150 and outlays of £30. 
My provisional decision is that Ulster Bank should pay Mr M £465 (in total) by way of 
contribution to his legal costs.
Interest and Fees
Mr M has incurred fees and interest because Ulster Bank paid the cheque - even 
though it had assured Mr M the cheque had been stopped. It has offered to waive 
some fees and interest on the account. I dont think that is enough.
I think it should refund all fees and interest that have been applied to the account, 
that wouldnt have been applied if the cheque hadnt been paid, during the period 
since 6 December 2019 up to the end of November 2020.
It is the case that, if Ulster Bank had told Mr M it was too late to stop the cheque, he 
wouldve been required to pay interest on the loan repayments under his agreement 
with C. So, I think its fair and reasonable that the amount of interest he wouldve had 
to repay C for the period up to the end of November 2020 should be deducted from 
the amount Ulster Bank should have to refund him. Based on the rate of interest on 
Cs loan being 5.6% per annum, Ive decided that Ulster Bank can deduct £512.26 
from this amount (calculated as £9300 x 5.6 x 360 /36600).
Ive provisionally decided that Mr M should be responsible for interest on the amount 
of the cheque after November 2020 because that was the date when he recovered 
the full amount from V. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Ulster 
Bank not to charge him interest after that date.
Ive also provisionally decided that it shouldnt charge him any fees, insofar as the 
amount of the cheque is concerned, until 28 days after it issues a revised statement 
of account to him.
Revised Statement of Account
Ulster Bank should provide Mr M with an updated statement of account once the 
recalculation, as set out above, has been completed.
Information recorded at credit reference agencies
Ive noted that Mr M did recover the funds in November 2020. He didnt contact Ulster 
Bank at that time to make any payment towards his overdrawn account. He says the 
reason for this was because of the uncertainty surrounding the situation, given the 
complaint hed raised. He was in dispute with Ulster Bank about the outstanding debt.
Although Ive decided that Mr M should have to repay the outstanding balance on his 
account, I think its fair and reasonable, as stated above, to require Ulster Bank to 
provide Mr M with a revised statement of account. He wont receive that until after my final decision in this matter has been issued. It is only then that there will be certainty 
about how much he should repay, given the actions I think Ulster Bank should take.
Ive also considered how any adverse information recorded by Ulster Bank could 
disproportionately affect Mr M. And, I think that the information (if any) recorded by 
Ulster Bank wouldnt tell any prospective lender about what had happened here.
For these reasons, my provisional decision is that, once Mr M repays the outstanding 
balance, it is fair and reasonable to require Ulster Bank to remove any adverse 
information (including any default), about Mr Ms account, which it may have recorded 
with credit reference agencies during the period from December 2019 to the date 
which is 28 days after the date Ulster Bank provides him with a revised statement of 
account.
Balance outstanding
Mr M will still have a balance outstanding which he will be required to repay to Ulster 
Bank. Ive noted that he has been reimbursed with the full amount of the cheque from 
V in November 2020.
Distress and Inconvenience
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience which Mr M has experienced as 
a result of what happened here. Hes had to instruct solicitors and hes experienced 
distress as a result of the fact that his business account was placed in an 
unauthorised position due to no fault on his part.
Ive listened to some of the calls made by him at the time and I can hear the distress 
that he was experiencing in the period leading up to Christmas. He mentioned 
sleepless nights and feelings of distress. And, Ive noted that because of the 
overdrawn position, some direct debits were not paid.
It is also the case that Ulster Bank didnt do anything to assist him. The call on 9 
December 2019 from Ulster Bank was very blunt. Ulster Bank made clear to him that 
the account would remain in an unauthorised position and it was up to Mr M to take 
whatever action he thought fit to resolve that situation. It accepted no responsibility 
for having given him incorrect assurances. Since that date, despite the fact that Mr M 
had referred his complaint about the stopped cheque to our service, Ulster Bank has 
continued to pursue him for the outstanding balance. It has issued a Notice of Default 
and a termination letter.
Ulster Bank has offered Mr M £45 by way of compensation for distress caused when 
it says it gave him incorrect information. But, having considered everything here, I 
think its fair and reasonable, in these circumstances, to require Ulster Bank to pay 
him £750 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. This amount should not be set off against the debt owed by Mr M 
unless Mr M requests that.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about National Westminster Bank plc trading as Ulster Bank (formerly 
Ulster Bank Limited). I intend to require National Westminster Bank plc trading as 
Ulster Bank to:Pay Mr M £465 by way of contribution to the legal fees he incurred when 
seeking recovery of the funds from V;
Refund all interest that has been applied to the account, that would not have 
been applied if the cheque had been stopped as confirmed to Mr M, for the 
period since 6 December 2019 up to 30 November 2020. Ulster Bank may 
deduct £512.26 from this amount;
Refund all fees that have been applied to the account, that would not have 
been applied if the cheque had been stopped as confirmed to Mr M, for 
the period from 6 December 2019 up to a date which is 28 days after 
Ulster Bank issues a revised statement of account to Mr M.
Issue Mr M with a revised statement of account once the fee and interest 
adjustment has been completed;
Once Mr M has repaid the outstanding amount, Ulster Bank should remove 
any adverse information (including any default) it may have registered with 
credit reference agencies about Mr Ms account during the period from 
December 2019 up to a date which is 28 days after the date that Ulster 
Bank provides a revised statement of account to him; and
Pay Mr M £750 (without exercising set-off) by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened 
here.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. He said he wanted his bank account to be back 
up and running as it was before the incident had happened. He also thought that £750 
wasnt enough compensation. He said he thought hed be entitled to more than this because 
of the stress and annoyance hed been caused.
Ulster Bank said it had nothing further to add. It said the account was with its Recoveries 
team but it was willing to put the changes in place if my final decision was as set out in the 
provisional decision.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about wanting his account to be back up and running 
again. Ulster Bank has confirmed that it can make the refunds Id set out in my provisional 
decision and can issue a revised statement of account. But, that doesnt mean that Mr Ms 
account or his arranged overdraft will be reinstated. 
Ive noted that Mr M hasnt used the account since shortly after the date when the cheque 
was debited to the account in December 2019. It is also the case that an overdraft is 
repayable on demand and Ulster Bank withdrew the arranged overdraft facility on the 
account some time ago. So, in these circumstances, if Mr M wants the account or the 
arranged overdraft to be reinstated he will need to discuss that separately with Ulster Bank. 
As I said in my provisional decision, once the revised statement of account is issued, Mr M 
will still have a balance outstanding which he will be required to repay to Ulster Bank. And, 
because hes already recovered the amount of the cheque from V, I think its fair and 
reasonable to only require Ulster Bank to remove any adverse information it may have recorded about Mr Ms account with credit reference agencies (during the period from 
December 2019 up to a date which is 28 days after the date that Ulster Bank provides a 
revised statement of account to Mr M) once the amount outstanding has been repaid.
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about the amount of compensation. In my 
provisional decision, I set out the factors which Id taken into account when deciding to 
require Ulster Bank to pay him £750 for distress and inconvenience. I did mention that one of 
the factors Id thought about was the distress hed experienced because of what had 
happened. Although Mr M doesnt think £750 is enough, he hasnt provided details of any 
further factors which he thinks I shouldve taken into account. And having considered 
everything again, I remain of the view that £750 by way of compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank plc 
trading as Ulster Bank (formerly Ulster Bank Limited). I now require National Westminster 
Bank plc trading as Ulster Bank to:
Pay Mr M £465 by way of contribution to the legal fees he incurred when 
seeking recovery of the funds from V;
Refund all interest that has been applied to the account, that would not have been 
applied if the cheque had been stopped as confirmed to Mr M, for the period since 
6 December 2019 up to 30 November 2020. Ulster Bank may deduct £512.26 from 
this amount;
Refund all fees that have been applied to the account, that would not have been 
applied if the cheque had been stopped as confirmed to Mr M, for the period 
from 6 December 2019 up to a date which is 28 days after Ulster Bank issues a 
revised statement of account to Mr M.
Issue Mr M with a revised statement of account once the fee and interest 
adjustment has been completed;
Once Mr M has repaid the outstanding amount, Ulster Bank should remove any 
adverse information (including any default) it may have registered with credit 
reference agencies about Mr Ms account during the period from December 2019 
up to a date which is 28 days after the date that Ulster Bank provides a revised 
statement of account to him; and
Pay Mr M £750 (without exercising set-off) by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened here.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman