DRN-2745238
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they were mis-sold a decreasing term assurance policy by 
Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix Life).
What happened
In November 2000 Mr and Mrs J took out a new flexible off-set mortgage. They were 
advised to take out a decreasing term assurance policy with a term of 25 years and an initial 
cover of £72,000.
Mr and Mrs J complained recently that the policy recommended to them wasnt suitable and 
that they were told life cover had to be taken out as a condition of the lending. 
Phoenix Life agreed that the policy wasnt suitable for the chosen mortgage. It said there 
was still a need for cover and that Mr and Mrs J shouldve been recommended a level term 
policy instead. Phoenix Life offered to replace the existing policy with a suitable level term 
policy. Mr and Mrs J would need to pay an increased premium for the remainder of the cover 
but would not be expected to pay the difference in premiums from the last 21 years.
Mr and Mrs J did not accept this offer, they felt that they had other adequate cover in place 
at the time and so wouldnt have taken any policy if given the option. They reiterated that 
they were told the policy was necessary to obtain the lending. As theyd received a refund for 
the payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that was taken out at the same time, they felt 
the only fair option was for the term assurance to also be fully refunded.
Our Investigator felt that Phoenix Lifes offer was fair. They felt there was a clear need for 
suitable cover which Mr Js employment cover, existing life cover and property assets could 
not replace.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They were willing to accept the amended policy and pay the 
increased premiums moving forward but wanted all previously paid premiums to be refunded 
with interest. They felt that as the policy wouldnt have covered their mortgage in the event of 
their death, they shouldnt have paid for it. They asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are limited circumstances where the sale of a level term assurance policy is more 
appropriate than a decreasing term assurance policy when sold to cover a repayment 
mortgage  but this is one. The mortgage that Mr and Mrs J took out was a flexible off-set 
mortgage, which gave them the option of payment holidays and reduced monthly payments 
if agreed by the lender. 
This means the mortgage wasnt guaranteed to decrease each month as would normally be 
expected.  So, if the flexible options were used, a decreasing term assurance policy wouldnt 
provide adequate cover for the whole term. If Mr or Mrs J were to pass away while the policy 
was in place, they would be left with a shortfall.
I cant see that this risk was explained or discussed at the time the policy was 
recommended, or that there was any consideration for whether Mr and Mrs J were intending 
to ever use the flexible nature of their mortgage. As there was not, Im satisfied that the 
recommendation to take out a decreasing term assurance policy wasnt suitable. A level 
term assurance policy shouldve been recommended instead. All parties appear to agree on 
this point, the dispute is about how to put things right.
Phoenix Life is offering to set up a replacement level term assurance policy for the 
remainder of the mortgage term. If Mr and Mrs J accept, theyll only need to increase their 
payments moving forward and wouldnt be required to make up the difference of historic 
payments. 
Mr and Mrs J would also like a full refund of the historic premiums theyve paid. But whilst 
the policy sold wasnt suitable, this doesnt automatically mean that Mr and Mrs J should 
receive a full refund. Id like to explain why.
The policy was taken out to cover Mr and Mrs Js mortgage. Phoenix Life has said that the 
policy itself wasnt compulsory and wasnt assigned to the lender, but life cover does appear 
to have been a necessity in order to take out the lending. The mortgage offer says:
I acknowledge that as a condition of approval (unless you agree otherwise in 
writing) YBHL insists on life cover being in place.
This was common practice at the time the sale took place. Ultimately, its up to the lender to 
decide their own criteria  and potential customers can then decide whether to accept the 
terms or look elsewhere. 
Mr J feels strongly that the mortgage itself wasnt necessary as it was a re-mortgage which 
the lender approached him directly about. But this complaint isnt an investigation into the 
sale of the mortgage. Im satisfied from the documentation available that Mr and Mrs J had a 
direct need for life cover in order to obtain the lending they opted to take out.
Mr J has highlighted how he had alternate cover in place through his employer which 
wouldve sufficiently covered the mortgage. Hes said that this cover has been a constant 
throughout his employment history. I recognise the point he is making, but whilst in hindsight 
Mr J can say that he always had this cover throughout his career it was never a guarantee 
that this would be the case at the time the policy was sold. If Mr J had lost his job for any 
reason, the cover wouldve ceased. Alternatively, Mr Js employer couldve changed the 
terms of his cover at any point in time. 
Mr J also held separate life cover at the time, but this didnt match the term or the amount of 
the mortgage they were taking, so wouldnt have been a suitable replacement.
Mr and Mrs J also held other property which they say couldve been sold to cover their 
mortgage payments if the worst was to happen. I appreciate this couldve afforded them 
some security, however the sale of property to release funds isnt always a quick process 
and has its own complications. Even where assets are held it would still be good practice to 
take out specific cover for important debts such as a mortgage. Having separate cover in 
place allows for those assets to be kept and potentially used as a source of income in what would likely be a difficult time. I still think even with these assets in place there was a need 
for suitable cover.
I recognise Mr Js comments about the mis-selling of other insurance that was sold to them 
at the same time. However, I must consider each complaint on its own merits, and the PPI 
policy in question was a completely different type of insurance which provided a different 
benefit to the policy being investigated in this complaint. Im not persuaded that the refund 
Mr and Mrs J received for their PPI policy is an indication that they had no need for suitable 
life cover.
Im satisfied there was a clear need for a policy that had the purpose of covering Mr and Mrs 
Js mortgage. Life cover appears to have been a stipulation of the lending that Mr and Mrs J 
opted to take out. It also removed uncertainty and guaranteed that the property would be 
passed to the surviving spouse if either partner sadly passed away. 
So, whilst the type of cover recommended wasnt suitable for the mortgage Mr and Mrs J 
held, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs J wouldve most likely still taken out a policy had Phoenix 
Life made a suitable recommendation at the time. Because of this, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Phoenix Life to fully refund the cost of the policy that was taken. 
Putting things right
Instead the offer made by Phoenix Life to set up a suitable level term assurance policy 
moving forward is fair and reasonable. I say this because Mr and Mrs J are at no financial 
loss from its error  theyve never had to claim on the policy and so have never been 
impacted by the present shortfall. If the offer is accepted, the only impact would be that 
theyve paid less in premiums for the last 21 years.
Mr J has highlighted that if he were to have died during the period the decreasing term 
assurance was in place, the policy wouldnt have covered the amount needed to pay the 
mortgage in full. I agree, but as this hasnt happened it isnt an actual loss that theyve 
experienced.
Phoenix Life are offering to provide the appropriate policy for the rest of the term  and Mr 
and Mrs J would only have to pay the premium increases moving forward. If Mr and Mrs J 
feel that theyd prefer to keep their decreasing term assurance, with the knowledge that they 
are underinsured, and maintain the same monthly payments, they can choose to do so as 
well.
I understand Mr and Mrs J arent happy with this offer. But for the reasons already explained 
Im satisfied that a policy would have most likely still been taken out if Phoenix Life had 
made suitable recommendations at the time. So, I cant agree that it would be fair to ask 
Phoenix Life to refund any premiums. Phoenix Lifes current offer is fair compensation that 
puts Mr and Mrs J back in the position they wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice.
My final decision
My decision is that Phoenix Lifes offer to replace Mr and Mrs Js decreasing term assurance 
policy with a level term assurance policy is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Phoenix Life Limited should proceed with this replacement if Mr and Mrs J accept.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 Paul Clarke
Ombudsman