DRN-3013426
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC) gave 
him an unaffordable credit facility.
  
What happened
Mr S approached SNC for a credit facility in January 2018. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer could request funds up to their agreed credit limit.
In its final response letter (FRL) send on 28 January 2021, SNC agreed that it shouldnt have 
granted the facility to Mr S. It offered to refund all the interest Mr S paid, along with 8% 
simple interest. It also agreed to remove any unpaid interest from the current outstanding 
balance. Finally, SNC also offered to remove all entries from Mr Ss credit file. After carrying 
out the above redress, SNC told Mr S an outstanding balance would still be due of around 
£83. 
Mr S was unhappy and asked our service to investigate the matter further. Mr S told us in 
this complaint form that he wanted the debt written off because he cant afford to repay it. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. The adjudicator thought SNCs offer was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint as the offer to settle the complaint 
would have been in-line with our services recommendations, had this service upheld the 
complaint. She also didnt think that SNC needed to write off the outstanding balance.
It appears that SNC agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr S disagreed. He told this Service that he had no means to repay the outstanding balance 
and knowing there is a balance will impact his mental health. 
The adjudicator then contacted SNC to see if there was anything else that could be done. 
SNC seemed open to considering the offer to write the balance off but it asked Mr S to 
provide it with evidence. After the adjudicator contacted Mr S, he explained he wouldnt be 
providing bank statements or any medical evidence. So, our adjudicator didnt change her 
opinion about the complaint and SNC didnt alter its offer.
  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
In SNCs FRL, it agreed upon review we can see that lending was not affordable. 
Therefore, we are fully upholding your complaint. SNC offered to refund the interest that Mr 
S paid towards his loans, along with 8% simple interest  as a matter of compensation for 
the money being out of his pocket. 
SNC has already agreed that something went wrong when it provided Mr Ss facility. And Im 
satisfied that SNCs offer is in-line with what I would recommend if I was to uphold a 
complaint where I believe a lender shouldnt have approved a credit facility. 
So, I dont think there is a need for me to consider what checks it did or didnt do and what 
they may have shown it. I say this because, as Ive outlined above, SNC has already 
accepted it shouldnt have given Mr S the credit facility. It is also, with the offer that it has 
made to resolve the complaint made the facility interest free. But for completeness, Ive 
outlined below what SNC has already agreed to.do. 
I acknowledge that this will leave Mr S with an outstanding principal balance to repay. But 
when our service considers complaints about unaffordable lending, which is what this 
complaint is about, we try and put the consumer back into the position they wouldve been in 
had the error not been made. However, that isnt always possible, as is the case here. 
When putting things right, wed expect the lender to refund any interest and charges that 
have been added, so in effect this gives a consumer an interest free loan or facility. But we 
would expect the consumer to have repaid (or to repay) any capital that they borrowed as 
they will have had had the benefit of the money. 
In this case, the offer that SNC has made does this for Mr S. I appreciate he wants the 
outstanding balance written off, but I dont think in this case, based on what has been 
provided, SNC needs to make an adjustment to the capital amount outstanding without 
some further evidence. 
What I would add, is that an outstanding balance will remain due (unless Mr S has made any 
prepayments to SNC since the FRL) and SNC has an obligation to treat Mr Ss fairly and 
with forbearance when coming to an arrangement to repay what is owed. 
So, I think SNCs offer is fair and reasonable. And Im not going to ask SNC to do any more 
than what it has already agreed to do. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S, but I 
hope that hell understanding why Ive reached the findings that I have. Ive outlined below 
what SNC has agreed to do. 
Putting things right for Mr S
In line with what SNC has agreed to do;
Refund the interest that Mr S has paid 
Add 8% simple interest to this sum taking into account the tax to be deducted*
Remove accrued interest from the current outstanding balance
Use the refund of interest to offset the outstanding balance
Any entry about this facility will be removed from Mr Ss credit file. 
Based on what SNC has said in the FRL, Mr S still has a principal balance of £83.03 left to 
repay (after the above refund has been accounted for). And Id remind SNC of its obligation 
to treat Mr S fairly when dealing with him in repaying this sum. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to deduct tax from this interest. SNC should give Mr 
S a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint because the offer 
Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit has already made to resolve the 
complaint is reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman