DRN-4210011
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not tell her a cheque had been repaid back to 
a third party bank and they allowed her to be significantly overdrawn which resulted in direct 
debit payments being reversed.
Mrs P is represented by her son in law in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs P herself.
What happened
Mrs P deposited a cheque into her HSBC account from a third party bank for over £60,000, 
which she says cleared on 27 May 2022. She later issued two separate cheques to family 
members for £31,000 each, unbeknownst to her that the third party cheque for over £60,000 
had been returned unpaid to the third party bank. HSBC honoured the two cheques for Mrs 
Ps family members, which resulted in Mrs Ps HSBC account to be overdrawn by over 
£56,000. As a result of this, she did not have enough money to pay her direct debits and 
these payments were reversed. 
Mrs P says she wasnt contacted by HSBC that there was a problem. She says she was 
unaware that her bills were unpaid until the third party companies chased her for the 
payment. Mrs P says this was a dreadful shock to her, and she feared she had been a victim 
of fraud. She says she visited a local HSBC branch to resolve this, but they treated her with 
a lack of empathy, and they didnt take ownership. Mrs P made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC partially upheld Mrs Ps complaint. They said that the third party bank had requested 
the return of funds from the cheque, and she would need to contact the third party bank for 
the reason for this happening. They said as it was a cheque being paid into a HSBC UK 
account, they wouldnt send a letter to Mrs P explaining why the cheque was returned 
unpaid by the issuing bank. They said it would be expected that the issuing bank, would 
issue a letter explaining this if its within their procedures to do so.
HSBC said that whenever a payment is requested which would take an account into an 
unarranged overdraft, they have to decide whether they are able to allow the customer to 
borrow more money informally. They said the decision is made individually by the system 
each time, and they were unable to identify any bank error in allowing the cheques to be 
paid to her family members. HSBC said if they were at fault they could send a letter to each 
company where the direct debit payment was reversed - called a repair of reputation  which 
explains that any missed payment to the company should not be viewed negatively towards 
her. HSBC offered Mrs P £150 compensation for how the branch staff treated her. They also 
refunded the pre notified overdraft charge of £20 and as it was likely she would be charged 
another £20 on her next statement cycle they said they would refund this also. Mrs P 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ps complaint. He said HSBC failed to tell Mrs P the cheque had 
been returned as unpaid. He said that if Mrs P was informed of this then she wouldve had 
the opportunity to request the funds again from the third party bank who asked for the funds 
to be returned to them. He said HSBCs error caused Mrs P distress and inconvenience. Our 
investigator said HSBC should pay Mrs P a further £150 (to total £300) and they should also 
write the repair of reputation letters for each of the returned direct debits.
Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said she was passed between both banks with neither of them accepting 
responsibility or trying to get to the bottom of what happened. She mentioned the effect that 
the situation had on her mental health. Mrs P said HSBC did not simply allow one cheque for 
£31,000 to be debited from her account, as they repeated this ten days later, despite the 
much smaller direct debit payments being reversed, causing considerable embarrassment 
and stress. She said HSBC could have sent her Power of Attorney (POA) a text when the 
cheque proceeds were returned to the third party bank and two further times when the 
£31,000 cheques debited her account, and she entered an unarranged overdraft. She said 
HSBC should amend their process to ensure what happened to her does not happen again.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mrs P that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to make 
changes to their policies or procedures, such as when they should decline a transaction 
causing a customer to enter an unauthorised overdraft. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
I must make it clear that Ill only be looking into the actions of HSBC on this complaint. Im 
aware that Mrs P has made a separate complaint about the third party bank involved here, 
but she will receive a separate decision in relation to their actions. 
Initially the cheque for over £60,000 cleared in Mrs Ps account. But HSBC have said in their 
final response to Mrs P that the cheque was returned to the third party bank unpaid. And 
theyve said As it was a cheque being paid into a HSBC UK account, we wouldnt send a 
letter to you explaining why the cheque was returned unpaid by the issuing bank. Ive had a 
look at HSBCs terms and conditions to see if they make any reference to unpaid cheques  
and they do. 
Page 14 of the terms and conditions state If a cheque has been paid into your account but 
is returned unpaid (for example, it bounces), well tell you and take the money back out of 
your account. But while HSBC took the money back out of Mrs Ps account, Ive seen no 
evidence that they told her the cheque had been returned unpaid. So Im not persuaded that 
HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions here. So I do think that there was a bank 
error made, even though its unlikely they would be able to tell her the reason the cheque 
was returned unpaid, they would still need to tell her that the cheque was returned unpaid as 
per their terms and conditions. 
It would not be the role of this service to say how Mrs P shouldve been informed, whether 
this should have been by letter or via any other form of communication. Mrs P says that 
HSBC couldve text her POA as they had her telephone number. But this would be up to 
HSBC to choose how to communicate this to Mrs P (or anyone authorised to act on her 
behalf). The terms do not state how she would be informed of this. But Im satisfied that they 
didnt tell her as per the terms and conditions when the cheque was returned unpaid. 
So I cant say that HSBC helped to mitigate the events which would unfold from this 
oversight. The £60,000+ cheque debited her account on 27 May 2022. Had HSBC contacted Mrs P via any method available to them to inform her the cheque had been returned unpaid, 
then its highly likely that she either wouldnt have issued the two cheques to her family 
members, or if she had already done this, then she could have asked HSBC to cancel the 
two cheques before they debited her account. As the first £31,000 cheque debited her 
account on 17 June 2022 (and the second £31,000 cheque debited her account on 27 June 
2022), then Im satisfied she would have had time to ensure the two cheques werent paid if 
HSBC had notified her the £60,000+ cheque had been returned. 
Ive then considered what happened regarding the unarranged overdraft. It is HSBCs 
procedure to decide whether they are able to allow the customer to borrow more money 
informally, by their system each time. And their terms and conditions allow this as they say 
Without you asking in advance (and sometimes on top of any arranged overdraft), we let 
you borrow money for something specific. This includes where we let you borrow for a 
particular payment or charge, or have to return a payment that was paid into your account. 
But Im also persuaded that there will be occasions where a strict application of the terms 
and conditions can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer. And Im satisfied that this 
happened twice here.
I say this because the first occasion which Mrs P became overdrawn  when the first 
£31,000 cheque debited her account, resulted in her being £26,437.98 overdrawn. Her 
income which credited her account three days later and further income which credited her 
account days after this was not accessible to her due to the large unarranged overdraft 
which was created by HSBC allowing the first £31,000 cheque to be debited from her 
account. This was not a small amount which HSBC allowed her to enter an unarranged 
overdraft. This was a five figure amount. Mrs P has said shes never been in an overdraft  
and she didnt have an arranged overdraft available to her on her account, so Im not 
persuaded HSBC were fair in honouring the £31,000 cheque debiting her account on 17 
June 2022, creating such a large unarranged overdraft - regardless of whether their system 
allowed this or not.
As a result of the level of the unarranged overdraft on Mrs Ps account, I can see that there 
were three direct debits which were returned unpaid on 24 June 2022. But despite Mrs P 
being overdrawn by over £25,500, they allowed the second cheque of £31,000 to be debited 
from her account on 27 June 2022. So again, Im satisfied that HSBC should not have 
honoured this cheque, especially given the state of the account prior to it being debited. 
I can see that HSBC did write to Mrs P on 1 July 2022 to inform her that she was £56,653 
overdrawn. But this was two weeks after the account first became overdrawn. Its possible 
that if HSBC let her know sooner, then action may have been taken to cancel the second 
cheque. But Im unable to say whether a letter would have reached her in time to do this. I 
can see that they also sent her a letter dated 24 June 2022 to inform Mrs P that there were 
three direct debit payments they had declined. So it appears that HSBC did follow their 
procedure and informed her of the unarranged overdraft and unpaid direct debits.
Mrs P says she found out about the missed direct debits when the companies rang her 
about the missed payments. Given that Mrs Ps account balance from April-June 2022 
generally shows a credit balance of anywhere between £3,000-£6000, then it would have 
been very distressing for Mrs P to find out there wasnt enough money in her account to pay 
direct debits which were typically lower than £100. And a number of direct debit payments 
after 24 June 2022 were unsuccessful due to the unarranged overdraft.
Mrs P has said that she went into a HSBC branch, but they didnt show her any empathy and 
they didnt take ownership of the issues involved. This would have also been distressing for 
Mrs P. And she would have been further inconvenienced by having to contact HSBC again 
to try and rectify the situation. The unarranged overdraft issue was resolved on 6 July 2022 when the third party bank made a direct credit into her HSBC account.
In considering what would be a fair outcome for this complaint, there are a number of factors 
that Ive considered. Im persuaded that HSBC did make a number of errors during the 
course of what happened here. They didnt notify Mrs P in line with the terms and conditions 
regarding the returned unpaid cheque. The honouring of the two £31,000 cheques led to an 
unfair outcome for Mrs P and created a five figure overdraft. HSBC also accept the branch 
staff did not take ownership of the issue when Mrs P visited the branch.
Although it would appear that the issues took place over a number of weeks as opposed to 
months, I need to consider the impact that these errors would have had on Mrs P. Im 
satisfied that these errors would have caused Mrs P considerable distress, upset and worry. 
And as a result of allowing her to enter an unarranged overdraft when it would be 
proportionate for them not to allow her to do so based on the value of the cheques, then its 
likely she has been further distressed by finding out from the direct debit companies the 
payments werent made. She still may need to get in contact with some of these companies 
to explain what happened and to ensure there is no impact on herself and to ensure her 
reputation isnt damaged with them. To help with this, HSBC should send a repair of 
reputation letter to each company where the direct debit payment was reversed. 
HSBC offered Mrs P £150 compensation and our investigator suggested a further £150 
compensation to total £300. But Im not persuaded that this recognises the significant 
distress that HSBC caused Mrs P. Im persuaded that a total of £500 compensation would 
be reasonable and proportionate to reflect the impact of what happened here. So I intend to 
ask HSBC to put things right for Mrs P.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs P a total of £500 for distress and inconvenience. They should also 
send a repair of reputation letter to each company where the direct debit payment was 
reversed. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs P a total of £500 for distress and 
inconvenience. They should also send a repair of reputation letter to each company where 
the direct debit payment was reversed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Gregory SloanesOmbudsman