DRN-3341777
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he had with HSBC Life (UK) 
Limited. He is unhappy that after 2016 when the policy holding and premiums automatically 
started to transfer into a secure fund, the charges applied have reduced the value of the 
policy. He is also unhappy with the overall management/investment strategy of the funds the 
policy was invested in, as it fell significantly short of its target when it matured. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc has confirmed that it is responsible for the matters complained about.
What happened
In 1996 Mr P took out a unit-linked mortgage endowment policy alongside his mortgage. The 
policy had a term of 25 years and it was initially invested in a balanced fund. Toward the end 
of the term of the policy, in order to reduce the risk to the growth it was anticipated the policy 
would have accrued, the policy holding would be gradually transferred to the secure fund.
In 2000 the industry regulator introduced a requirement for mortgage endowment providers 
to send regular updates to policyholders telling them how their policy was expected to 
perform against its target. Mr Ps policy was included in this exercise, which meant that 
HSBC sent him regular updates on what the maturity value of his policy was likely to look 
like. From 2003 the letters sent to Mr P told him there was a high risk that the policy wasnt 
going to reach its target value. In 2006, the letter told him that if he wanted to complain about 
the sale of the policy, he had to do so by February 2007.
In August 2016 HSBC sent Mr P an annual plan statement, which showed the then current 
value of his plan. It also enclosed a booklet which the letter said explained how the funds 
linked to the policy had performed. HSBC didnt provide a copy of the booklet. A similar letter 
and booklet were sent the following year.
In December 2016 HSBC wrote to Mr P and explained to him that the secure fund, into 
which his policy holding was being transferred, was receiving very low returns. This meant 
that the combined management and policy charges were higher than the return being 
achieved on the fund and so the value of his policy would reduce if it remained in that fund. 
HSBC gave Mr P the option to switch funds if he wanted to, or he could leave the holding 
where it was and make provision for the loss elsewhere. It seems that this letter was likely 
sent to the address Mr P had recently moved from, and so he may not have received it.
In April 2018 HSBC sent Mr P another letter about the transfer to the secure fund. It was 
again set out that the performance of the fund was low and that the charges were greater 
than the amount of growth being achieved on the fund. The letter asked Mr P to consider 
whether he wanted the transfer to continue or if he wanted to switch to another fund. It 
highlighted that transferring to another fund would invalidate the policys conditional maturity 
guarantee if it still applied. This letter was sent to Mr Ps correct residential address.
In early October 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr P again about the effect of the low performance on 
the secure fund. It again highlighted that the policy charges were higher than the growth on 
the policy and so the value was being eroded. It offered Mr P the option to switch funds if he 
wanted to, however, doing so would invalidate the policys conditional maturity guarantee, if 
it had not already been invalidated.
Shortly thereafter Mr P complained to HSBC. HSBC responded on 26 November 2020, but it 
didnt comment on the merits of Mr Ps complaint as it considered the complaint was out of 
time by that point. It explained that the regulator set timescales for a complaint to be made. 
It said that the six-year period in the rules would have started when the policy started and 
the three-year period would have been triggered by the high risk letters it sent Mr P, and that 
would have been at the latest February 2006.
Mr P didnt accept HSBCs position and it wrote to him again in January 2021. It said that its 
letter of November 2020 was its final response and referred Mr P back to the referral rights 
contained in it. It then went on to say that the letter issued to Mr P in December 2016 would 
have adequately warned Mr P that the investment in the secure fund would decrease in 
value. It also provided comment on the performance of the secure and balanced funds. 
Mr P wasnt happy with HSBCs responses and asked this service to consider the complaint. 
When HSBC was informed that the complaint had been referred to us, it said that it 
considered the complaint was time-barred and didnt fall within our jurisdiction.
One of our investigators looked into whether the complaint was one we could consider, and 
she concluded that it wasnt. She agreed that the complaint had been raised too late.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Further correspondence was exchanged, 
but our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her conclusion that the complaint wasnt 
one we could consider. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint 
should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 December 2021 and a decision on 7 January 2022, in 
which I set out my conclusions regarding our jurisdiction to consider this complaint and my 
reasons for reaching those conclusions. In summary, I concluded that this was a complaint 
we could consider the merits of. 
HSBC provided some further evidence in the form of copies of all the correspondence that 
had been sent to Mr P after 2016. I have documented the relevant ones above. 
Our investigator considered all of the evidence and ultimately, she didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She explained that there was no evidence that HSBC had done 
anything wrong in relation to the management of the balanced fund. She was also satisfied 
that Mr P had been made aware in 2018 that the charges associated with the secure fund 
and the low level of growth being achieved, meant that the policy would suffer a loss once in 
that fund. As Mr P didnt take any action at that time, she didnt think that had he been made 
aware any earlier, he would have taken action to mitigate the potential future loss. 
Mr P said he had still had an issue with the investment management strategy of the 
balanced fund over the term of the plan. He said that he considered that there had to come a 
point where consistent poor decisions/performance required accountability. Mr P also said 
that he couldnt recall having received the 2018 letter about the secure fund. He questioned 
why the investigator considered that this letter would have made him aware of the poor 
performance of the funds in which his policy was invested. Mr P also said that he considered 
stopping the switch to the secure fund or moving holdings to another fund would have been 
irresponsible at such a late stage in the life of the policy. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and HSBC entered into a contract when the endowment policy was taken out. Mr P 
agreed to pay a monthly premium and HSBC agreed to provide life cover during the term. It 
also agreed to provide an investment which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would 
reach a target amount.
Unfortunately, the hoped-for growth rates havent been reached - far from it - but they were 
never guaranteed. A shortfall was always possible. Of course, no one thought that would 
happen, but it doesnt change the nature of the contract. 
Mr P paid his premium each month and HSBC had to invest the premium, taking costs as 
and when required from the fund. As far as I can see that is exactly what it did. Growth over 
the policy term has turned the premiums paid into a maturity value which unfortunately was 
less than hoped for.
Mr P was warned about the progress of the policy. It was made clear that the policy was not 
performing as expected and was unlikely to reach its target value. Mr P was encouraged to 
take action to deal with this situation. In addition, HSBC specifically wrote to Mr P about the 
effect of his policy holding being moved into the secure fund in the final years  that the 
value of the fund holding would decrease because the charges were more than the growth 
expected on the fund. While I am satisfied that Mr P probably didnt received the 2016 letter, 
I am satisfied that the 2018 one was correctly addressed and would most likely have been 
delivered correctly. 
HSBC did what it had to do. Mr P has known about the poor performance of the policy for 
some time and that the maturity value wasnt guaranteed. I know that Mr P believes the 
performance of his policy in comparison with other providers is evidence that HSBC did 
something wrong. If I look across the industry, I see most businesses, indeed most 
investment classes, having similar problems. The economic and regulatory situation is very 
different now from what it was in 1996. That is nothing to do with HSBC. I dont know where 
HSBCs investment returns sit in any table of results, but it will no doubt be more successful 
than some but less successful than others. 
Being able to say that, looking back, different investment decisions would have been more 
profitable than the ones actually taken is a statement of the obvious. To make judgments like 
that, however, would be to use hindsight in making a decision. I cannot use hindsight in 
making a decision. 
A very large number of decisions since the 1990s relating to investments, costs and charges 
have been made by the investment managers at HSBC. Those decisions were made in a 
regulated environment with layers of governance, independent scrutiny (such as by 
actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. Some of the factors influencing returns were 
outside its control. Even if I were to try and drill down to individual decisions it is very 
unlikely that I could point to an individual decision or set of decisions which were, without 
using hindsight, so manifestly bad or wrong that redress should be paid. 
Its unlikely to have been in the interests of the fund managers to perform badly and I am 
sure HSBC would have wanted the fund to do as well as possible. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that HSBC mismanaged the fund or acted negligently.Mr P has made a specific point about the transfer into the secure fund having eroded the 
value of his policy because of the charges applied. That is the case, but HSBC attempted to 
warn Mr P that this would happen in 2016, but the letter was unfortunately sent to an 
incorrect address. That denied Mr P the opportunity to do something about that issue before 
it affected his policy. However, HSBC then wrote to Mr P again in 2018 about the issue; this 
time to the correct address. I note that Mr P says he doesnt remember the letter, but Im 
satisfied that it was most likely delivered. Although he may not have realised its importance, 
the letter gave Mr P the opportunity to stop the transfer of holdings into the secure fund and, 
if he wanted to, to move the holdings already in that fund either back to the balanced fund or 
into another one. 
I have noted Mr Ps comments about switching funds at such a late stage of the policy term. 
I acknowledge that such actions wouldnt have guaranteed to prevent a loss, but it would 
have given the policy the opportunity to avoid what was otherwise expected to be a 
guaranteed loss. However, no such action was taken when the opportunity arose, and so I 
cant find that if HSBC hadnt made the mistake addressing the 2016 letter, the maturity 
value of the policy would have been any different to what it was.
The simple fact here is that Mr P invested in an investment product which hasnt performed 
as well as hoped. I have seen no grounds for upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
14 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman