DRN-2505682
The complaint
A Company Ill refer to as T has complained about Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd. It 
isnt happy that Collingwood wouldnt pay the hire companys loss of use charge following a 
claim under its commercial motor insurance policy. Mr A, a director of T, has brought the 
complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
T hired a vehicle and insured it under its commercial motor insurance policy. And when the 
vehicle was involved in an accident and damaged it made a claim under the policy. The hire 
company repaired the vehicle itself and charged T the cost of repair and an amount for the 
time it was unable to hire out the vehicle (just over £1,000). Collingwood paid T for the 
repairs, minus the policy excess, but wouldnt pay the hire companys loss of use charge.
As T wasnt happy about this it complained to Collingwood. And Collingwood explained that 
they dont pay loss of use under the policy. Ts representative explained that it wasnt asking 
for Ts loss of use but for the third party hire companys loss of use that T was being asked 
to pay. As Collingwood maintained the position that they wouldnt pay these costs T 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for T but didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that 
loss of use wasnt due under the policy and that Collingwood wasnt responsible for the third 
party hire companys additional charge.
As T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ts complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment, 
but Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained the policy doesnt cover indirect losses such as the hire costs 
incurred by the hire vehicle company. And the policy goes on to highlight that loss of use 
isnt covered. Company Ts representative accepts this but says the loss of use isnt Ts but 
the hire companies, so feels these should be covered. But these would be indirect losses 
and I wouldnt expect Collingwood to pay out for uninsured losses under this policy.
Indeed, Collingwood has said that the hire company specifically highlighted to T when it 
hired the vehicle that insurers dont generally cover loss of use and offered a loss of use 
waiver. So I think that T should have been on notice that this wasnt covered under their 
policy and taken out the loss of use waiver cover if it wanted to cover this possibility.
Our investigator also looked at whether there was any delay on behalf of Collingwood that 
impacted on this claim and she was satisfied that there wasnt. As T accepts this position I 
dont propose to go over the detail of this other than to say that I agree with the investigator 
on this. 
So, despite my natural sympathy for T, I dont think Collingwood has done anything wrong 
and so Im not asking them to do anything further.   
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman