DRN-3460461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a
cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S booked a UK holiday and they were due
to travel between 4 and 18 July 2020. Alongside their holiday booking, they took out joint
cancellation cover which was sold by a broker and underwritten by Great Lakes.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed national restrictions on
movement and travel, commonly referred to as lockdown. And on 14 and 20 April 2020
respectively, Mr and Mrs K received letters from the NHS which advised them to shield
against the risk of contracting Covid-19 for at least 12 weeks from the date of each letter.
In early June 2020, Mrs Ks GP advised Mrs K to shield until at least the end of that month
and stated it would be unwise for her to travel for leisure purposes for the foreseeable future.
On that basis, Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S cancelled their booking and made a claim for
the associated cancellation costs. Mr and Mrs K both received further NHS shielding letters
in June 2020, which explained that although some advice would change during July and
August 2020, they should both still stay at home where possible.
Subsequently, on 4 July 2020, the day the party had been due to travel, most lockdown
restrictions were lifted. At this point, two households were permitted to mix both indoors and
outdoors.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said that neither fear of contracting Covid-19 because
of age or medical conditions nor cancellation due to government action were covered by the
policy terms.
Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked
us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She noted that the cancellation
section of the policy covered cancellation due to a policyholders quarantine. She concluded
Mr and Mrs Ks situation could fairly be treated as a period of quarantine. And she noted that
the policy excluded cover if a policyholder travelled against medical advice. So she didnt
think it was fair for Great Lakes to have turned down the claim and she recommended that it
should accept it, adding annual interest of 8% to any settlement.
Great Lakes disagreed. It didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms. It referred
to a case where it considered wed agreed on this point.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 April 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ks claim. I 
said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S policy and the available evidence, to decide
whether Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S policy, as
these form the basis of their contract with Great Lakes. The cancellation section provides
cover for a policyholders unused travel and accommodation expenses if they have to cancel
their trip due to one of a number of listed, specified events. One of these is:
You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being quarantined,
called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
The contract of insurance doesnt define what Great Lakes means by quarantine. In these
circumstances then, Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word as well as
the context in which the word quarantine is used within the policy wording. Ive also had
regard to the following dictionary definitions of quarantine:
a period of isolation or restrictions on movements intended to prevent the spread of
disease.
a general period of time in which people are not allowed to leave their homes or travel
freely, so that they do not catch or spread a disease.
a state of enforced isolation.
Ive looked closely at the shielding letters which was sent to Mr and Mrs K on 14 and 20 April
2020 respectively. These stated that the safest course of action was for Mr and Mrs K to stay
at home at all times and avoid all face-to-face contact, except from those from whom they
received medical care, for a period of at least 12 weeks from the date of the letters. In both
Mr and Mrs Ks cases, 12 weeks from the date of each letter would mean they were advised
to shield until after the date they were due to depart. And Mrs Ks GP wrote a letter on 4
June 2020, which stated that due to Mrs Ks medical conditions, she was at high risk of
developing complications of Covid-19 and had been advised to shield until the end of June
2020 at least. The GP also stated that they thought it would be unwise for Mrs K to travel for
leisure for the foreseeable future.
And additionally, both Mr and Mrs K received further shielding letters on 22 June 2020.
These outlined that there were some planned changes to shielding advice which would take
effect on 6 July 2020. These included clinically extremely vulnerable people being able to
meet up to six people outside; an end to social distancing within their own households and
being able to form a support bubble. But the letter stated that all the other current shielding
advice (would) remain unchanged. The letter also stated that further changes to the advice
would take place on 1 August 2020, when people would be able to go outside for shopping
or for exercise etc. Although the letter stated that even after this date, guidance would still be
to stay at home as much as possible.
Its clear though that at the point Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S cancelled their trip, on 15
June 2020, medical advice for both Mr and Mrs K was to stay at home and only leave home
for a very limited number of reasons. I think that this can fairly be treated as a period of
enforced isolation. And I think the shielding letters, which were specifically addressed to Mr
and Mrs K, are evidence that they were in such isolation.
In my view, the common meaning and understanding of quarantine is wide enough to
include Mr and Mrs Ks enforced isolation to avoid the risk of contracting Covid-19. And Ithink a reasonable person would therefore consider that Mr and Mrs K were in quarantine
and that that was the reason the trip had to be cancelled.
As I think Mr and Mrs K were effectively in quarantine, I think their claim falls within the
scope of policy cancellation cover. I appreciate Great Lakes considers that the shielding
advice is tantamount to a government regulation. I disagree. I say that because the April
2020 shielding letters state their purpose is to give advice. And the shielding letters of 22
June 2020 clearly state that:
Like all our guidance to those who are clinically extremely vulnerable, this was advisory.
(Emphasis added).
Government regulations are passed in Parliament; have legal effect and can be enforced.
Advisory guidance is purely advisory and theres no obligation to follow it nor are there any
potential legal consequences if a person chooses not to do so. And as Ive set out above, on
the day the party was due to travel, most lockdown restrictions had been lifted. The party
could have legally travelled and stayed together. So I dont think this exclusion would apply
to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S claim.
Id add too that I think theres another reason why its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to
reassess Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S claim. Thats because page 1 of the policy sets
out a list of health conditions, which a policyholder must be able to comply with in order to
have full medical cover. This section asks whether a policyholder is travelling against
medical advice. And to have full medical cover, a policyholder must be able to answer no to
this question.
Given Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances, the GPs letter of 4 June 2020 and the NHS letters
which had been sent specifically to them, advising them to shield, I think theyd have been
travelling against medical advice if theyd taken the trip as planned. This means the answer
to this question wouldve been yes. I think its likely Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S may
have understood that Great Lakes wouldve refused to cover them if they had travelled and
claimed. I think that leaves Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S in the unfair position of not being
covered if they cancelled due to Mr and Mrs K having to isolate on the advice of the NHS
and Mrs Ks GP but also not being covered if they had travelled because of the medical
advice to isolate and not travel.
Great Lakes has referred to another case where weve reached a different outcome.
However, each case is considered on its own specific facts. And in the individual
circumstances of this complaint, I currently think that the fair and reasonable outcome is for
Great Lakes to reassess this claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision (as the representative of all of the complainants).
Great Lakes didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, it maintained that the 
general principles of this complaint were the same as other complaints whered we reached 
a different outcome. It also referred to the policy exclusion for cancellation claims arising 
from regulations set by the government of any country. And it didnt agree that shielding was 
the same as quarantine. It said Mr and Mrs Ks GP hadnt placed them in quarantine, theyd 
been advised to shield because of Covid-19. If they hadnt followed shielding guidance, they 
wouldnt have broken any laws or regulations. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ks 
claim and Ill explain why.
As I set out above, we assess complaints on their own individual facts and circumstances 
and outcomes are not generally intended to create precedent. So in making my decision on 
this complaint, Ive decided what I think is fair and reasonable based on these specific facts.
In my view, Mr and Mrs K wouldve understood the shielding letters to have been clear 
medical advice to strictly stay at home as much as possible, given the risk of Covid-19. In 
the case of shielding, those who were asked to shield were recommended to only leave 
home for a very limited number of reasons. Im still persuaded that the shielding guidance 
meant that Mr and Mrs K were placed in an effective state of enforced isolation and that they 
remained in such isolation for a prolonged period of time to prevent the spread of disease. 
And Im satisfied that most people would reasonably interpret Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances 
to be at least akin to quarantine.
Great Lakes has referred to the policy term which excludes cancellation claims arising from 
the regulations of any government. However, I simply dont think this exclusion clause 
applies to the circumstances of this claim. On the day Mr and Mrs K were due to travel, most 
lockdown restrictions had been lifted and government rules allowed the indoor and outdoor 
mixing of two households. This means that Mr and Mrs K and Mr and Mrs S couldve 
travelled without breaking any law or incurring any potential penalties. And Great Lakes 
acknowledges that the failure to follow shielding guidance wouldnt constitute any legal 
breach. As I explained, shielding advice was not government-made law and neither could 
adherence to it be legally enforced. So the exclusion Great Lakes has referred to wouldnt 
apply to the circumstances of this particular claim.
Overall, I still find that the reason the holiday was cancelled was because Mr and Mrs K had 
received shielding advice. Mrs K had also been advised that she wasnt fit to travel for 
leisure purposes for the foreseeable future. This means I still think this trip was cancelled 
due to Mr and Mrs Ks quarantine. And therefore, I still think the fair and reasonable outcome 
here is for Great Lakes to reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to reassess this claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Mrs K, Mrs S 
and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman