DRN-4076666
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of his claim for 
a damaged carpet under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T made a claim in July for damage to his floor caused by rising damp. The claim was 
referred to Admirals claim handling agent. Mr T hadnt had a decision on his claim by 
September 2022, so he complained to Admiral. They investigated his complaint and issued a 
final response in October 2022 apologising for the delay and offering £350 in compensation. 
We considered this as a separate complaint and concluded this offer was fair and 
reasonable. The claim for the damage to the floor was eventually declined in November 
2022. Mr T then contacted Admiral and claimed for the damage to his carpet, which hed had 
to have replaced. 
Mr T contacted us in January 2023 and told us he wasnt happy about the fact he hadnt had 
a decision from Admiral on his claim for his carpet. We told Admiral Mr T wasnt happy about 
this in January 2023. We also made it clear to Admiral again in February 2023 that we would 
be considering Mr Ts complaint about them not making a decision on his claim for his 
carpet. 
Admiral eventually issued a further final response to Mr T on 7 March 2023, in which it said 
the decision to turn his claim down was correct. But this didnt specifically refer to his claim 
for his damaged carpet. And I think it gave the impression it was in relation to the claim for 
the damage to Mr Ts floor, which he accepted wasnt covered. 
Mr T spoke to one of our investigators on 7 March 2023, who explained to him that his claim 
for his carpet was unlikely to be covered, as the damage to it wasnt caused by escape of 
water or another event covered by his policy. However, she left it with Mr T that shed 
consider what had happened and provide her view on his complaint. 
She did this on 30 March 2023. In her view she explained that she didnt think Mr Ts claim 
for his carpet was covered by his policy. She also said that Admirals failure to let Mr T know 
this and leaving him wondering whether his claim for his carpet would be covered had 
caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. She said Admiral should pay Mr T 
£150 in compensation for this. 
Mr T hasnt commented on the investigators opinion on his complaint. But Admiral have 
disagreed with it. Theyve said that because the investigator thinks they were right to turn 
down Mr Ts claim, she should have rejected his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part for the same reason as the investigator. 
Admiral seems to have misunderstood what this complaint is actually about, despite us 
making this clear. And this meant their final response on 7 March 2023 didnt actually make 
it clear to Mr T that they would not be meeting his claim for his carpet. And it didnt address 
his complaint about the fact Admiral had not provided him with a decision on it.
It also seems that, despite our investigator making it clear to Admiral why she was upholding 
Mr Ts complaint, Admiral have not understood this and thinks his complaint was purely 
about them turning down his claim for his carpet, which, as Ive already explained, it was not. 
I think it was apparent from November 2022 when Admiral responded to Mr Ts claim for the 
damage to his floor that the damage to his carpet hadnt been caused by an insured event. 
Yet, despite him asking Admiral about it on several occasions, Admiral never actually 
specifically told Mr T that they would not be meeting his claim. It seems Mr T actually only 
realised this due to the telephone conversation with our investigator and her written view on 
his complaint. 
In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Admirals failure to clearly explain to 
Mr T that his claim for his carpet was not covered was very frustrating for him and caused 
him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And I agree that the level of distress and 
inconvenience he experienced does warrant a compensation payment of £150.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider Admirals poor handling of Mr Ts claim for his 
damaged carpet caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Because of this, I 
consider Admiral should pay him £150 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and order Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to pay him £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman