DRN-4042730
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card with Capital One in March 2014. The credit card account was 
opened with a credit limit of £200 which wasnt ever been increased. 
Mr H says that Capital One shouldnt have provided him with the credit. He says it didnt take 
account of his financial situation at the time, or the fact that he was experiencing serious ill 
health, and that it should have refused him credit. He says Capital One didnt check it was 
affordable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They didnt think Capital One had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so his case has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
For clarity, Mr H made two complaints about two separate credit cards. Capital One didnt 
agree to this service reviewing a complaint Mr H made about a credit card taken in 2010 
because it was made outside the time limits which apply in cases like these. Our adjudicator 
agreed with that and didnt think this service could look at the first complaint. However, 
Capital One didnt object to this service considering Mr Hs complaint about his credit card 
from 2014. This decision relates only to the 2014 credit card ending x4664.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Capital 
One acted unfairly and lent to Mr H irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mr Hs borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Capital One has shown that it gathered information about Mr Hs income and 
accommodation status before it gave Mr H the credit card. It says it also completed a credit 
check, although the outcome of those checks isnt now available given the time which has 
passed since then. 
Mr H declared a gross income from salary of £30,000 with an additional £6,000 from another 
source. Mr H was a private tenant and says that he was paying around £1,200 a month in 
rent.
 
Although Capital One wasnt able to provide evidence of the outcome of the credit checks it 
completed, Mr H made a complaint about another lender to this service from around the 
same time. That lender was able to provide evidence of the credit checks it completed which 
likely would have shown the same, or very similar, results as when Capital One made its 
own checks only a couple of days later. Looking at these checks I can see that there was 
nothing significant which would have made Capital One think the credit wasnt affordable for 
Mr H. For example, he didnt have any outstanding CCJs or defaults. 
I can see that about eight months later, in November 2014, a default from nine months 
earlier had appeared on Mr Hs records with the other lender. I think its likely that this default 
was pending on Mr Hs credit file when he made his application in early March 2014 and so it 
wouldnt have been visible to Capital One or the other lender at the time. It may be that 
Capital One saw that Mr H had missed payments with another lender, hence why its initial 
limit for him was so low compared to his apparent income. Even with possible missed 
payments, in the absence of further evidence from Mr H about his circumstances at the time, 
I cant fairly say that Capital One made an unfair decision to lend £200 to Mr H. I consider its 
checks were proportionate to the level of lending and that it acted appropriately on the 
information it likely saw. 
I understand that Mr H was experiencing very difficult personal health circumstances at the 
time of the borrowing. Mr H suggests that he was not in a position to be making appropriate 
decisions about his finances at the time. However, I havent seen any information to suggest 
that Capital One knew about this, so I dont think Capital One could have been expected to 
take this into account. 
On the information available to me I dont think Capital One was unfair in the way it treated 
Mr H. I dont think Mr H lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. It follows that Capital 
One (Europe) plc, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman