DRN-3015282
The complaint
Miss I complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled her request for support when 
she had difficulties making her loan repayments.
What happened
In March 2020, Miss I contacted HSBC and explained that she needed to provide further 
financial support at home because of the pandemic. Miss I explained she was still earning 
but would have difficulty making her repayments given her financial commitments had 
changed. At the time, HSBC put in place what it calls breathing space. The bank explained 
that no repayments would be expected for 60 days and that Miss I wouldnt accrue any 
interest or charges during this period. HSBC suspended Miss Is direct debit and asked that 
she get in touch after 60 days to revisit her circumstances.
Miss I says HSBC didnt inform her that shed need to reinstate her direct debit after the 
breathing space period. As a result, Miss Is account fell into arrears and she says she 
received multiple messages and correspondence from HSBC asking her to bring the account 
up to date. Miss I says this caused her stress and anxiety and she was concerned about the 
impact to her credit file. Miss I also says she was under the impression that she was on a 
payment holiday.
After Miss I complained to the bank, HSBC responded apologising that she wasnt informed 
she needed to reinstate her direct debit  although by this point the direct debit had already 
been reinstated. HSBC later removed any adverse data that was recorded on Miss Is credit 
file during this period. 
Remaining unhappy, Miss I asked this service to review the matter saying she felt 
compensation was a fair way to put things right for her. One of our adjudicators decided the 
bank had acted unfairly. The adjudicator concluded that HSBC shouldve put in place a 
payment holiday at the time, in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance. 
Given the bank had already removed adverse data recorded on Miss Is credit report, the 
adjudicator decided that HSBC should pay Miss I £75 compensation for the stress it caused 
her.
Although HSBC agreed, Miss I felt the compensation figure shouldve been higher. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think a fair outcome has already been delivered on this complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC says it couldnt offer Miss I a payment holiday at the time because, as a bank, it was 
still carrying out preparations to implement the FCAs guidance  which came into force in 
April 2020. The guidance required firms to offer a payment freeze on loans and credit cards 
for up to three months for customers negatively impacted by Covid, and ensure consumers 
using the payment freeze measures will not have their credit file affected. However, Miss I 
got in touch with the bank a few weeks before the guidelines came into force, so I accept 
that HSBC wouldnt have been able to offer Miss I something that wasnt available at the 
time she called. 
But I dont think I need to make a finding on whether or not HSBC acted reasonably when it 
didnt put a payment holiday in place around the time. HSBC acknowledged during a call 
with Miss I that a payment holiday shouldve been put in place instead of the breathing 
space. HSBC also accepts that it shouldve informed Miss I that she needed to reinstate her 
direct debit so that her repayments could start again. So the bank agreed a plan with Miss I, 
asking her to keep up with her next three repayments. Following this, HSBC removed the 
adverse data that was recorded on Miss Is credit report when she went into arrears.
Given Miss Is credit report has been amended to remove any adverse data recorded around 
the time, I think shes been put back into the position she wouldve been in had I asked 
HSBC to treat the account as if it had been put on a payment holiday. 
What remains is the distress caused to Miss I during this period. Miss I says she 
experienced stress and anxiety because she was often contacted about the arrears. And it 
seems to me that resolving the issue took at least a few conversations with the bank. Miss I 
also says she was concerned about the impact to her credit file. So I think HSBC should pay 
Miss I compensation for the stress it caused her. 
Miss I doesnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation that HSBC pay £75 
compensation. She says shes been a customer of the bank for many years and wasnt 
given the support she needed when she asked for help. Our compensation awards for 
distress and inconvenience are designed to put right the impact caused by a business 
wrongdoing. In this instance, Miss I explains that she was left stressed by the situation. I 
acknowledge Miss Is recent comments, but Im not persuaded that HSBC should pay 
additional compensation and Im satisfied the amount already recommended by the 
adjudicator fairly makes up for the stress the bank caused Miss I.
Putting things right
HSBC acknowledges it shouldve offered to put Miss Is account on a payment holiday. 
Miss Is credit report has already been rectified so HSBC neednt do anything further in 
relation to this.
I agree with the adjudicators opinion that £75 compensation is a fair way for HSBC to make 
up for the stress it caused Miss I. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding this complaint. Should Miss I accept my decision, 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should settle this complaint in line with what Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman