DRN-3635811
The complaint
Mr M complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his two pension plans with his existing provider (provider A) into a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider  provider B. He also feels that Quilter then 
gave him unsuitable investment advice
Mr Ms complaint is with an appointed representative of Quilter. But Quilter is responsible for 
this complaint. 
Mr M is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr M said that Quilter got in touch with him. And then went on to provide financial advice in 
March 2018. At the time of the advice, I understand that Mr M was 59 and that he had been 
widowed almost a year before. He had two pension plans with provider A which hed started 
on 1 September 1990. It has been confirmed by provider A that these didnt provide access 
to flexible withdrawal of Mr Ms pension benefits.
Quilter said that Mr M had first met its adviser in January 2018. And that during a February 
2018 meeting, it completed a fact find with him. It said this had recorded details of Mr Ms 
personal and financial circumstances, as well as his needs and objectives. Quilter said he 
also completed a supplementary fact find.  
The fact find recorded that Mr M:
Was retired from work with no financial dependents. 
Was in good health.
Wanted to withdraw lump sums to maximise his personal tax allowance. 
Held two with-profits pension plans with provider A with a total value of £71,306.
Was receiving £857.08 each month (£10,284.06 a year) from an Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS). And expected to receive a state pension of £8,296 each 
year.
Was spending around £850 each month from his net monthly income of £857.08.
Had savings and investments worth over £40,000 in bank accounts, an ISA and 
premium bonds. Also had £16,000 already invested with provider B. And owned his 
own home worth £325,000. 
Was concerned that his with-profits plans with provider A had a large final bonus, 
which wasnt guaranteed so could be reduced or withdrawn. So he wanted to transfer 
those plans onto his existing platform with provider B and then take benefits flexibly 
and tax efficiently. He also wanted to increase his net disposable income each 
month. 
Mr M also completed an Investment Risk Profiling Questionnaire on 28 February 2018 which 
identified him as a Balanced investor. 
Quilter said that, also on 28 February 2018, it provided Mr M with a Guide to Our Services, 
a Terms of Business, and an About Our Ongoing Services guide. It said it had also 
provided Mr M with an Authority to Proceed document, which documented that its adviser 
was to review Mr Ms pension arrangements. Quilter said Mr M signed this on the 28 
February 2018. And that in doing so, he accepted the initial adviser fee of 3%. And the 
ongoing service arrangement of 1% of the value of the pension.
After carrying out its assessment of Mr Ms circumstances, needs and objectives, Quilter 
issued a report to Mr M with its findings on 2 March 2018  Ill refer to this as the suitability 
report. The report covered just Mr Ms retirement objectives, in line with his request. It noted 
that Mr M needed an annual income of £11,500 in retirement to cover his essential 
expenditure. But he also wanted access to his pension funds for other lifestyle expenditure, 
like holidays. 
Quilter advised Mr M to transfer his two pension plans with provider A into a SIPP with 
provider B. It also advised him to invest his funds into the Quilter Investors Cirilium Moderate 
Portfolio. It recommended that he took £1,215.04 of the fund as a taxable lump sum, so that 
he could maximise his personal allowance. This, together with his annual OPS benefit would 
allow him to reach the annual £11,500 income he required. Quilter also advised him to take 
£405.01 of the fund as a tax-free lump sum.
Quilter also produced a Retirement Options Report, dated 7 March 2018. This was based 
on its recent discussions with Mr M and contained information about the various options he 
wanted Quilter to focus on.
Mr M signed the transfer authority for the transfer from provider A to provider B on 19 March 
2018. And I understand that the transfer took place in two parts  one on 29 March 2018 for 
£42,656.20, and the other on 18 April 2018 for £29,917.71.
I understand that Mr M terminated his ongoing service contract with Quilter in 2020. 
Mr M complained to Quilter through his representative on 30 April 2021. He felt hed 
received negligent advice from Quilter and that hed suffered loss as a result.  He felt his 
circumstances hadnt been considered in the advice given. And that his investment 
experience, capacity for loss and attitude to taking financial risks hadnt been adequately 
assessed. He wanted to be put back into the position he wouldve been in but for the 
negligent advice.
Quilter issued its final response to the complaint on 7 June 2021. It didnt uphold it. It said it 
had adequately assessed Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the advice, including his 
capacity for loss. It also said that although Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR) had been determined 
through the risk questionnaire as Balanced, after further discussion Mr M had asked to be 
re-categorised as a Moderate investor.
Quilter said Mr M hadnt raised any issues with it when it had issued its 28 February 2018 
report. It also said its adviser had discussed all charges with Mr M. And that hed signed the 
Authority to Proceed, which showed he agreed to the initial and ongoing adviser fees. Quilter 
also said itd held four annual reviews with Mr M and that he had never raised any concerns.Quilter said it remained satisfied that its recommendation was suitable for Mr M. This 
included its recommended investment fund, which it said was in line with Mr Ms agreed 
investment risk profile. So it didnt agree that its adviser had acted negligently. Or that the 
advice had been unsuitable.
Unhappy with Quilters response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator spoke to Mr M after wed received his complaint. He told her that in 2018 
hed wanted to move his pensions with provider A into a more flexible arrangement so that 
he could take ad-hoc lump sums out to pay for holidays. But hed only taken about £100 out 
so far. This was to set up a tax code in anticipation of taking more money out in the very 
near future.
Mr M also told our investigator that after hed transferred to provider B, Quilter had told him 
not to take money from his pension to pay for holidays, given hed got other savings that he 
should use instead. He also said that, at the time of the advice, hed wanted to take out 
approximately £10,000 to £15,000 each year to pay for holidays. He said this still was his 
plan, now that the pandemic was ending, and travel was returning to normal. Mr M told our 
investigator that he still planned to withdraw this money from his pension, rather than follow 
Quilters advice to use his savings instead to pay for holidays.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt the advice had 
been suitable for Mr Ms needs and objectives.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He said that the adviser had helped him to choose 
slightly different answers to the risk questionnaire so that his ATR profile would be higher 
risk. He also said hed no previous investment experience at all. 
Quilters adviser said that the suitability report and the ATR report demonstrated and 
evidenced Mr Ms answers within the risk profiling tool. And that his subsequent discussions, 
alongside the Guide to Investing brochure, revealed that although Mr M had been 
assessed as a Balanced investor, hed wanted a greater exposure to equities. Quilter said 
this was why hed chosen to invest into the Moderate risk category. It also said that its 
adviser had held further discussions with Mr M to explain this would lead to increased 
volatility. 
Quilter also said that if the ATR had been incorrectly recorded, it wouldve expected Mr M to 
have queried this with his adviser in 2018. It said that its report had asked Mr M to read the 
report carefully to check it accurately reflected the discussion, and if anything was incorrect 
to contact the adviser as soon as possible. As he hadnt made any such contact, it felt this 
showed that the report was a true reflection of the risk discussions at the time.
Quilter also said that it had fully discussed and documented that capacity for loss had been 
considered. And that it had discussed with Mr M, and made him aware of, the risks involved 
with its recommendation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for 
Mr M. Ill explain the reasons for it. I first considered Mr Ms point that the adviser had helped him to choose slightly different 
answers to the risk questionnaire so that his ATR profile would be higher risk. 
Did Quilter fairly assess Mr Ms ATR?
From the documentary evidence Ive seen, the risk questionnaire carried out on 28 February 
2018 correctly and reasonably recorded that Mr Ms answers suggested he was a Balanced 
investor. I say this because Ive no evidence to suggest that Mr Ms answers were falsified or 
incorrectly recorded.
The report produced after the risk questionnaire had been completed explained how a 
Balanced investor was likely to invest. Then said:
Having discussed your personal circumstances, attitudes and financial objectives, your 
agreed risk rating is as follows:
Your chosen Attitude to Risk  Moderate Investor
It then explained how a moderate investor was likely to invest. 
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Quilter helped Mr M to choose slightly different 
answers to the risk questionnaire in order to assess him as a higher risk investor. I say this 
because I can see that it assessed him as it wouldve assessed any other customer. And in 
doing so, it identified him as a Balanced investor. 
However, I acknowledge that Mr M was treated as if he were a Moderate investor, rather 
than a Balanced one. So I considered the evidence on this point. 
Page 5 of the suitability report dated 2 March 2018 covered Mr Ms discussions with the 
adviser about his view on investment risk. The report recorded:
In considering an investment strategy of any type, it is critical that you establish how you feel 
about investment risk in relation to the investment objective and that you are comfortable 
with the risk attaching any proposed investment vehicle.
In order to help you understand what risk means, we completed the 12 question Risk 
Profiling Questionnaire, and I illustrated the meaning of risk in six broad categories. Details 
of these categories and the process can be found in the Intrinsic Guide to Investing that I left 
with you.
We discussed your circumstances in relation to the principles of risk and reward in respect of 
your pension planning both near and in the long term and agreed your risk profile is: 
Moderate.
The report then went on to state that although Mr Ms ATR had been assessed as Balanced, 
hed confirmed that he didnt want to invest in quite such a low risk sector. It said hed 
preferred the Moderate profile, because he wanted to slightly increase the proportion 
invested in equities and various other global asset classes to increase the amount of money 
invested in more risky investments. 
The report said that in light of Mr Ms wishes, the adviser recommended a fund with a higher 
volatility than he wouldve otherwise done based on the calculated ATR. The report said that 
the adviser had discussed this with Mr M and that hed understood and accepted that this 
would be the case.The suitability report also went into detail on the first page about the importance of Mr M fully 
understanding the proposal it contained. And the advice and recommendations it included. It 
said the report should be read alongside: the relevant illustrations, remuneration disclosure. 
Key Features Documents and Fund Factsheets which had been given to Mr M. 
It also said that Mr M should: read the report carefully and check that it reflects your 
financial position, priorities, attitude to risk and capacity for loss. And that if he felt that any 
of the information was incorrect to let the adviser know as soon as possible. 
Despite these clear warnings, Ive seen no evidence that Mr M ever raised any issue with the 
contents of the suitability report or the ATR assessment until he complained in 2021. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Quilter fairly recorded Mr M as a Moderate 
investor, despite having assessed him as a Balanced investor. I say this because Im 
persuaded that Mr M did want to invest in slightly higher risk assets than his ATR had 
suggested. And because I consider that the documentation Quilter provided for Mr M clearly 
explained what he had chosen and what the implications of his choice were. And gave him 
clear opportunities to tell the adviser if anything it stated in the suitability report wasnt right. 
Mr M also felt that his circumstances werent considered in the advice given. So I next 
considered whether Quilter took reasonable steps to assess Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the advice. 
Did Quilter adequately assess Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the advice?
Mr M told this service hed no previous investment experience at all at the time of the advice. 
And in his original complaint, Mr M also said that his capacity for loss and attitude to taking 
financial risks were either not assessed or werent adequately assessed. 
Mr M also said he wasnt informed of the plan charges, or investment risks. And that he was 
advised that the income from the SIPP would outperform his existing pensions.
Quilter said itd carried out two fact finds and a risk analysis, and that it had produced a 
detailed suitability report. It said the fact finds had recorded details of Mr M's personal and 
financial circumstances, as well as his needs and objectives.
Quilter didnt agree that Mr M had no previous knowledge and experience of investments. It 
said hed had personal pension plans.  It also said that Mr M had set up investments with 
provider B with his previous financial adviser. It also didnt agree that it hadnt adequately 
assessed Mr Ms capacity for loss or ATR. 
Quilter also evidenced that it had documented Mr Ms assets and liabilities at the time of the 
advice. It felt it had fairly considered Mr Ms financial circumstances and his needs and 
objectives.
The fact find notes showed that Mr M had concerns about the investments in his existing 
pension plans. And that his aim was to take the money from the plans in a flexible and tax 
efficient way. From what Ive seen, it wasnt possible to take the money from provider A in 
this way. 
Mr M also felt he had a low net disposable income so wanted to take ad hoc amounts from 
his pension as and when he needed. He also said that he wanted to strip out the pension 
over the next seven years  to spend the money while he still could. 
Based on Mr Ms needs and objectives at the time of the advice, Quilter advised him to move his pension plans to provider B, as this would allow him the flexible access he said he 
needed. Mr M has confirmed to this service that he still needs such flexible access. 
I can see that Quilter looked at other retirement options, such as different types of annuities, 
and raising money from different means, before it confirmed its recommendation to transfer 
to provider B.  But Im satisfied that it reasonably discounted the alternatives as none of 
them met Mr Ms objectives. 
I can also see that Quilter advised Mr M to take any money he needed from his savings 
before he took it from his pension. I agree that this is usually sound advice, given the tax 
efficiencies of pension plans. But Mr M told this service that he still planned to withdraw this 
money from his pension.
Ive seen no evidence that Quilter gave Mr M unsuitable advice to transfer from provider A to 
provider B. I say this because the evidence shows that this option met Mr Ms stated 
objectives at the time, which other potential options didnt.
Mr M has complained that Quilter failed to note that he had a low capacity for loss at the time 
of the advice and a low attitude to risk.
Quilter said that it had considered Mr Ms capacity for loss at the time of the advice. It said it 
had noted during a fact find: 
Although a slight loss would be disappointing you have sufficient capital on deposit as well 
as investments for it not to affect your current day to day standards of living.
It felt this showed that Mr M could suffer a small loss, which wouldnt affect his day to day 
living.
Quilter also said that its suitability report had included the following:
There will inevitably be times when the value of your investment could drop quite sharply. 
You need to be aware and be comfortable that you have the necessary capacity for loss to 
accept this. For example, in a single bad year this loss could be 15% or worse and the 
chances of this happening are 1 in 20 each year.
And also said:
It is important to note the value of your investment can go down as well as up and past 
performance will not necessarily be repeated.
While I acknowledge that Mr M feels his capacity for loss was low, Im satisfied that the 
evidence shows that he did have capacity for loss at the time of the advice. I say this 
because he had over £40,000 in assets outside of his pension plans, including a £21,000 
cash emergency fund. And he told Quilter that he could suffer a slight loss. Im also satisfied 
that the suitability report explained the investment risk he would be taking on if he accepted 
the recommendation.
I also noted earlier that Mr Ms ATR was fairly assessed as Balanced based on his answers 
to the risk questionnaire. So I dont agree that Mr M had a low attitude to risk. Im also 
satisfied that the recommended fund was suitable for an inexperienced investor like Mr M. I 
say this because it was a highly diversified fund with active management. So it didnt require 
any specialised or sophisticated investment experience.
Looking at Mr Ms complaint that he wasnt informed of the plan charges, Im satisfied that these were clearly detailed before he agreed to the transfer. So I cant uphold this part of the 
complaint. Its also impossible for me to know what exactly was said during the February 
2018 meetings with the adviser. But, as Ive seen no evidence  other than Mr Ms allegation 
- that the adviser told Mr M hed get a bigger income from the SIPP if he transferred, I also 
cant reasonably uphold this part of the complaint. 
From what Ive seen, Quilter reasonably assessed Mr Ms financial circumstances at the time 
of the advice. Although I acknowledge that Mr M didnt see himself as having any investment 
experience, I consider that Quilter fairly assessed his ATR. I also consider that Quilter 
provided Mr M with enough information about its recommendation, which it discussed with 
him, for him to have made an informed decision to accept the investment recommendation.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the adviser carefully assessed Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time and considered his needs and objectives. And Im satisfied the 
advice to transfer Mr Ms retirement benefits from provider A to provider B was suitable for 
those circumstances and objectives. And I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman