DRN-3876682
The complaint
Mr R complains Nationwide Building Society caused delays when he was trying to switch his 
current account to a bank.
What happened
Mr R says he asked his prospective new bank to arrange a switch from Nationwide to them  
but each time the switch was rejected. Mr R says the reason he was given was because my 
account was already in a switch process which he said was incorrect. He said he spent over 
four hours waiting on the phone and was also told by Nationwide no requests to switch had 
been received from the bank.
Nationwide said they couldnt evidence any switch issues, and the switch was completed on 
13 April 2022, so they didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr R asked us to look into things. One of our case handlers did so and 
found the earliest evidence of Nationwide being asked to complete the switch was 
5 April 2022  so, with the switch completing eight days later on 13 April 2022 he didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Mr R said the request was completed before this, and it was delayed because Nationwide 
gave the bank incorrect information. He suggested we contact that bank.
Our case handler explained we need to base the outcome on the evidence provided by 
Nationwide, but said if he wanted to, he could complain to the bank for them to provide 
answers.
Mr R remained unhappy, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see our case handler told Mr R he could raise a complaint with the bank to determine if 
they were able to provide more detail about what happened  and if he remained unhappy 
then he could refer the matter to us.
Its unclear to me if Mr R has raised a complaint with the bank, as hes not referred any 
concerns to us about this. This means the only way for me to decide this case is based on 
the evidence Nationwide gave our service back in August 2022.
Nationwide have provided a screenshot of switching events for Mr R. These show two 
switches in to Nationwide in 2020  one of which was terminated, another of which shows 
as rejected. Another switch in request was seemingly received in 2021  and this shows as 
completed.
So, if Mr Rs concerns are correct and the switch had been requested several weeks earlier 
but they werent successful, then Id expect them to show up here  given other 
unsuccessful switches do show up in this screenshot.
But the only other switching event shown is the one Mr R is currently complaining about. The 
screenshot shows this was requested on 5 April 2022 and completed 13 April 2022  as 
Nationwide said. I do think this is a reasonable period of time in which to have completed the 
switch and there is no evidence to suggest Mr R had asked for the switch to be done earlier.
I do appreciate hes spoken to the bank he was trying to switch to, and he says theyve given 
him different information. But as Ive explained I can only decide this case based on the 
evidence in front of me. If Mr R makes a complaint to the bank, and this provides different 
evidence than what Ive seen to date, then its possible hed be able to raise a new complaint 
about these issues. He would need to give Nationwide a chance to look into things first 
though.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman