DRN-3923782
The complaint
Ms H complains that Caxton FX Ltd wont refund payments she says she didnt make.
What happened
Ms H says she left her card in a public transport payment machine on 13 July 2021. She 
wasnt able to contact Caxton or access the app. And payments of EUR 70.31 were debited 
from her account that she didnt make.
Caxton FX said it wouldnt be refunding this money. Ms H hadnt reported the fraud until 4 
August 2021. And she hadnt blocked the card using the app or phoned about this. It also 
said that it had reversed previous fraud refunds from claims she made in December 2019/ 
early 2020 and April 2021. It decided to close her account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Ms H hadnt 
raised this dispute for two weeks. And she would have received emails at the time of the 
payments and so known what the amounts were. The payments were consistent with 
genuine activity and the prepaid balance wasnt emptied. He didnt think it likely that having 
been unable to top up her public transport card, she would have left the Caxton FX prepaid 
card in the machine and opted to travel without a ticket.
Ms H didnt agree. She said that the view was unjust, and wed sided with Caxton FX. She 
didnt have access to her email at the time of the unauthorised use. And shed been able to 
report this in the early hours of the next morning. The person taking her card may just have 
made some purchases and thrown it away. That person wouldnt know the exact balance 
and there wasnt a huge sum anyway. Shed been having problems with accessing the app 
for some time. She no longer had access to her account as it had been closed so couldnt 
see the other payments that had been re-debited.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 December 2022, and I set out below what I said.
I needed to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. And if they werent authorised Ms H wouldnt generally 
be responsible for them.
So, I would be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card used for these 
payments?
- Did Ms H authorise the payments on the account?
- Is it fair and reasonable to re-debit the claims already settled?
I said I was going to focus on the payments on 13 July 2021 first. Caxton FX is unable to 
provide an audit log to show exactly how these payments were made. It cant say that these 
were otherwise than made using the contactless feature on the card and so that just the card 
(and not a PIN) was required. The payments were applied to Ms Hs account and they 
appear to be made at retailers and to require the card which she says shed lost. 
I noted that the payments were made within about a 40-minute period on 13 July 2021 with 
the earliest time Id seen starting at 15:20. They all seemed to be at retailers local to the 
public transport stop Ms H used. Id not seen any record of whether there were any 
unsuccessful attempts at payment. I understood that there was also money on the card in 
sterling. And it may be that theres an auto convert on the card to Euros for payments. Thats 
not a point that Caxton FX has put though and shown evidence about any attempts at this.
Ms H explains that she used a tram without a ticket and then arranged to top up her travel 
card at a central depot. She then noticed she didnt have the Caxton FX card. She had a 
medical appointment that afternoon and says she tried to call Caxton FX but couldnt get 
through. It seems to be accepted that the phone lines were generally busy at that time 
although Caxton FX says that there were no faults with those or its system and that she 
could have sent an email. But Ms H has also reported not being able to use the app and that 
when she tried to log on she couldnt see her card. While Id received log in information to 
her account from 2019 and 2020 I didnt have information about 2021. I could see from her 
statement history that the last time she topped up the card was on 21 June 2021 and I noted 
she then had over EUR 750 on the card but had used the majority of that balance on what 
she accepts were genuine payments.
The information from Caxton FX is that Ms H called an out of hours service in the early hours 
of 14 July 2021 and it was noted shed lost her card and the last payment she accepted 
making was recorded. A note was also made that the card was showing as blocked on the 
system and that a new one would be ordered. Ms H says she expected to be called back 
following this. In any event she had also written an email in which she gives her account of 
what happened. She explains that her travel could be verified from her travel card and 
record of calls she attempted to make to Caxton FX. And that she couldnt access her 
account. She further was in contact with Caxton FX on 28 July 2021 about the fraud and on 
29 July 2021 had written to say shed expected a call back. Ms H explained she was having 
difficulty raising a dispute using the app. I wasnt clear any of the information she then said 
she had was collected by Caxton FX as part of its investigation.
I placed limited weight on the time its said elapsed before Ms H disputed the payments. 
Shed raised the issue with her lost card and on her account was then expecting contact 
back. The call notes for example didnt say how any dispute would be taken forward. 
I then considered her previous claim which seems to be a material factor in Caxton FX not 
accepting this one as genuine. It refers specifically to payments from 15 March 2021 and 29 
March 2021 (in total about £35 sterling equivalent) disputed on 27 April 2021. These were 
apparently refunded on 5 August 2021 based on the information available. And then as part 
of the further review of this dispute re-debited within a matter of days. It is said that this was 
because Ms H was using her card to make genuine payments at this time. Again, I didnt 
have an audit log, and I couldnt see the nature of the payments clearly from her statement. 
It seems that she had loaded money (about EUR 57) onto her account on 15 March 2021. I 
wasnt clear whether some of the genuine payments were made say online with stored 
details and what discussion if any Caxton FX had with Ms H about the circumstances.
Caxton FX has then returned to previously refunded disputed payments made in December 
2019 and January 2020 (total EUR 131.30) and decided to re-debit them. It accepted these as fraud at the time. It refers to Ms H topping her card up then, being online and her history 
of multiple card reorders over the period to 2021.
My assessment
Its fairly for Caxton FX to show Ms H authorised the payments. Its assessment is clearly that 
over a period of time shes decided to add money to her account and make a number of 
payments and each time falsely claimed shed lost her card. It may be that the 
circumstances in March 2021 are that she did still have the card. However, its unusual that if 
this were the case then after five months Caxton FX would uphold this claim. And then within 
days say that the information didnt support third party fraud. I was also unclear what the real 
significance of the time to report the most recent fraud is. On Ms Hs account she had done 
so but here it is being inferred that she decided over a period of time to make a false claim. 
She knew about these payments then and it would be in her interest to make the claim as 
soon as possible.
Ms H is clearly prone to losing her cards having had multiple ones replaced and as far as I 
could see every instance of that didnt lead to a fraud claim (for example September 2020 
and February 2021). Shes had considerably more money in her account at times compared 
to the claims of fraud if shed say wanted to maximise the amounts.
I wasnt persuaded that its most likely that the claim in July 2021 was a fraudulent one by   
Ms H. Given the payments were contactless and happened during a short period I didnt see 
that Ms Hs account is implausible or has really been considered by Caxton FX and the 
information she said she then had fairly obtained. And the majority of the limited EUR funds 
had quickly gone, and I had no information about whether there were further attempted 
payments. She did report this and has been consistent in what shes said. I next considered 
her claim in 2019 and early 2020. Given the time that has passed and that this claim had 
been settled I didnt see a reasonable basis for Caxton FX now to re-debit that money or that 
this can be fairly investigated. That leaves the claim for payments in March 2021. As I set 
out above this was initially upheld by Caxton FX, the evidence about it is unclear and this 
doesnt appear to have been discussed with Ms H and she says she now cant access those 
details. On balance I considered there is insufficient information overall to conclude it most 
likely that Ms H authorised these disputed payments. I provisionally find that all Ms Hs 
claims should be paid with simple interest of eight percent per annum. 
Having said that given that Ms H has made more than one claim following the loss of her 
cards I thought Caxton FX was entitled to decide not to offer her an account and thats a 
commercial decision for it to make under its terms and conditions.
This is a provisional decision and so I invited any comments. Should Caxton FX disagree I 
said I may be assisted if it supported this with an audit log showing all actual and attempted 
payments in the relevant periods, how these were authenticated and how these related to 
those specific claims of fraud. Id also be expecting to see details of any log ins by Ms H to 
the app in the relevant period in 2021 and her calls and any customer notes about the past 
issues with access to the app she describes. And to understand the reasons for the changes 
in the assessment of the fraud claims over time. I said Id look at any any further comments 
or evidence I got by 24 January 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H responded and didnt make any specific comments about what Id provisionally 
decided. She indicated she was unhappy that our investigator was still involved with the 
case when shed disagreed with what hed said and wanted this to be looked at 
independently. Ms H said she didnt have access to some of the correspondence about the 
case anymore. She didnt think that Caxton FX had acted fairly.
Caxton FX indicated that it was going to be disagreeing with my provisional decision, but it 
asked on 25 January 2023 for more time and after the deadline had passed to gather 
evidence and respond. I asked our investigator to respond on 26 January 2023 and say that 
I wasnt going to grant this given the stage that the complaint had reached, that the 
timescales for response were clear when I issued my provisional decision and as Ms H had 
responded and was expecting my decision. It has still asked for more time. I now add that 
while Id indicated the sort of things that might assist if it was to disagree with me they might 
be thought reasonably to have been more readily available as part of its own investigation. 
The only explanation for a delay now is down to its procedures internally which Im afraid I 
dont find to be a compelling reason to agree to an extension having balanced the interests 
of both parties. I understand that Caxton FX has concerns still about the number of cards 
issued to Ms H and the number of claims. And that this was why the account was closed and 
that it says it had doubt that the payments were fraudulent based on its own thorough 
review.
I want to assure Ms H that I have undertaken an independent assessment. And thats what 
led me to change the outcome and uphold her complaint. Our investigator will still assist me 
in sending out this decision and in the arrangements around settlement. That will be based 
on what Ive now decided.
I consider I addressed the nature of the claims in my decision and the concerns about the 
past disputes and the number of cards issued. I dont have any substantive new information 
or submissions and have allowed sufficient time for these. And so, I dont see any reason to 
depart from my provisional conclusions for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Caxton FX Limited to refund all the 
transactions disputed by Ms H and pay her simple interest from the date of debit to the date 
of settlement at eight percent per annum (this should take into account any periods when the 
amounts had been re-debited from Ms H even if initially refunded).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman