DRN-1656816
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SEs (Liberty) handling of a claim 
she made under her commercial insurance policy
What happened
In late 2018, Mrs L decided to sell the house that she rented out. She subsequently issued a 
Section 21 notice to give her tenants notice to leave. Mrs L says her tenants were slow to 
leave and she subsequently had to issue a possession order in October 2019. After the 
tenant had been evicted, they returned and damaged the property. Mrs L made a claim to 
Liberty. 
Liberty declined Mrs Ls claim. It said that Mrs L hadnt disclosed the material fact that she 
had begun eviction proceedings when the policy was renewed in June 2019. It went on to 
say at the very latest, Mrs L ought to have told Liberty when the court order was issued in 
July 2019, and had it known this, it wouldnt have offered malicious damage at the point of 
renewal. 
Unhappy with Libertys decision to decline the claim, Mrs L asked us to look into this for her. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ls complaint but didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
As Mrs L didnt accept this, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering what was required of Mrs L in terms of disclosing information to 
Liberty. The policy terms say:
All material facts known to you must be disclosed. A material fact is one that would
be likely to influence and insurer in the assessment and acceptance of the proposal failure
to disclose such facts may invalidate the policy. 
And, having considered the statement of fact Mrs L completed, I can see shes provided 
other information about the property under the material facts section. As a result, I think its 
reasonable to therefore say she knew there was, sometimes, additional information that she 
needed to provide to her insurer.
In addition to this, Mrs L was also answered no to the following question ahead of the policy 
renewing in June 2019:
Are the current tenants in rent arrears and / or subject to eviction proceedings?
Mrs L has said that the policy doesnt define eviction, and I can see that. Shes also said 
that, having sought advice, a Section 21 is not notice of eviction. However, as our 
investigator said, a Section 21 notice can be the beginning of the eviction process. And 
when the policy was renewed in June 2019, the tenant had stopped responding to any 
communication attempts and Mrs L was having to seek a court order to remove her tenant 
from the property. 
I think its reasonable that, at the point of renewal, and certainly by the time the court order 
was granted, Mrs L ought to have told Liberty about the change in situation and the tenant 
was the subject of eviction proceedings. It could then have decided if it was prepared to 
continue to offer malicious damage cover. While I appreciate it wasnt Mrs Ls intention, she 
didnt provide an accurate reflection of the situation on which her insurer could have decided 
whether or not to offer malicious damage cover. I think the above question, at the point of 
renewal, ought to have alerted Mrs L that she needed to disclose that she was evicting her 
tenants.  It follows, I dont think Liberty has acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ls claim.
Mrs L has indicated she thinks the policy was mis-sold to her because the malicious damage 
policy shouldnt have been invalidated. And if, on receipt of my decision, she remains of that 
view the she can contact the broker who sold it to her in the first place to make a formal 
complaint, if shes not already done so. 
I appreciate my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs L and Im sorry for that. 
I can see this is a difficult situation for her. However, for the reasons Ive given, Im not going 
to direct Liberty to settle her claim or pay any of the costs shes asked for. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman