DRN-3029029
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Bank of 
Scotland says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its 
made an offer as if it had.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Bank of Scotland didnt need to tell 
Mr C about the commission it received - so Bank of Scotland doesnt need to pay back any 
of the commission Mr C paid for the PPI. But in any event Bank of Scotland has offered to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Bank of Scotland has provided a copy of Mr Cs 
credit card application form. Theres a separate section for PPI which gives Mr C a clear 
choice about taking it. Theres a cross in the box to say he wanted it and he signed the 
completed one-page form. While the cross has been entered electronically I think the 
form was completed as a result of a conversation with Mr C where his preference was 
established. There is other information entered on the form which could only have come 
from such a conversation. And Mr C doesnt suggest it was added without his knowledge 
or consent.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. And the evidence about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr C was eligible for the 
cover and he didnt have any means to fall back on, so he had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health and/or back problems.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr C as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the 
information he was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr C 
would have declined the cover had Bank of Scotland done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bank of Scotland didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received  but in any event Bank of Scotland has offered to pay back some of the cost of 
PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Cs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr C should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Bank of Scotland failed to tell Mr C about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr C wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But in this case, Bank of Scotland has told us that the commission for Mr Cs PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Bank of Scotland has 
worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Cs 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Bank of Scotland needed to tell Mr C about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Bank of Scotland 
treated Mr C unfairly. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the commission he paid 
for the PPI. 
But in any event Bank of Scotland has offered to give back to Mr C some of the cost of the 
PPI to compensate Mr C as if it had treated him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipmy decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr C paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. Bank 
of Scotland plc should now make arrangements to pay Mr C if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman