DRN-2904320
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI), 
cancelled his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a car insurance policy with UKI. In February 2021 he called UKI about a quote 
hed received for a second car. During the call, it became apparent that Mr M hadnt 
disclosed all of the accidents hed had in the last few years. UKI told him he would need to 
add the undisclosed claims to his policy and pay any additional premium before it could offer 
insurance on a second car. UKI said it would cancel his current policy if he didnt pay the 
additional premium. Due to the length of time Mr M had to wait while the call was being 
transferred between different teams, he ended the call. 
A few days later, UKI sent Mr M a letter to say it was unable to continue cover and it would 
be cancelling his policy. It said Mr M could call its customer helpline if he wanted to discuss 
the matter further. Mr M complained to UKI. He wasnt happy it had cancelled his policy 
without giving him a written explanation. He was also unhappy UKI had sent the cancellation 
letter by normal post instead of recorded delivery. He said he could easily have missed the 
letter amongst junk mail and continued to drive without knowing he no longer had insurance. 
He felt this had put himself and his family at risk. UKI didnt uphold the complaint and as 
Mr M remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator was satisfied UKI was right to reassess Mr Ms policy when it found out 
about the accidents Mr M hadnt declared. She was also satisfied Mr M was made aware of 
the possibility his policy would be cancelled, and why, when he spoke to UKI in 
February 2021. She said she could see how Mr M could have missed the cancellation letter 
but said there was no requirement for such letters to be sent by special or recorded delivery. 
And, in any event, Mr M had read the letter and was aware of the cancellation. She noted 
that UKI had refunded Mr Ms premium, less the amount hed paid for the time he was 
covered under the policy. So, she didnt think UKI needed to do anything more.
As Mr M remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr M but, having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy includes the following: 
You must tell us before the next renewal date (or at the time you are making any of the 
changes already mentioned) if you or anyone covered by this policy have:
had insurance cancelled by an insurer. This includes a policy declared null and 
void as though it has never existed, a renewal declined by an insurer or a policy 
cancelled by an insurer due to, but not restricted to, non-payment, fraud or 
misrepresentation;
had any accidents, thefts or losses (whether a claim was reported or not and 
regardless of blame);
had any motoring offences including convictions, endorsements, penalty points, 
fixed penalties (excluding parking penalties), speed camera offences, 
disqualifications or criminal prosecutions pending. 
Failure to provide correct information or inform us of any changes could adversely affect 
your policy, including invalidating your policy or claims being rejected or not fully paid.
So, when Mr M called UKI in February 2021 and told them about accidents it hadnt 
previously been aware of, I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to say it needed to 
reassess his policy in light of that new information. Ive listened to the telephone call 
between Mr M and UKI and I think the call handler explains the situation clearly. She says 
she needs to transfer Mr M to its service team to add the further information to his policy and 
backdate his premiums to 2018. She says he would then need to pay the outstanding 
amount and she makes it clear that UKI would cancel his policy if he cant or doesnt pay. 
Mr M asks if he can continue the conversation by email. But the call handler is clear that the 
issue needs to be resolved now and, if its not, his policy could be cancelled. Mr M says he 
waited for about ten minutes for his call to be transferred and then ended the call.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration and inconvenience in having to wait for a long time to 
resolve the matter, particularly as hed already been on the phone with UKI for quite some 
time. But, having listened to the call, Im satisfied UKI explained the situation to him clearly 
and accurately and also told him what would happen if he didnt pay the further premiums.
The terms of Mr Ms policy says UKI has the right to cancel his policy at any time by giving 
him at least 7 days notice in writing, where there is a valid reason for doing so. It says it will 
send the cancellation letter to the latest address it has for him. It goes on to say:
Valid reasons for cancellation may include, but arent limited to the following: 
where you are required in accordance with the terms of this policy, to co-operate 
with us, or send us information or documentation and you fail to do so in a way 
that substantially affects our ability to process your claim, or deal with your policy; 
where there are changes to your circumstances which mean you no longer meet 
our criteria for providing motor insurance;
where you have used threatening or abusive behaviour or language or you have 
intimidated or bullied our staff or suppliers;
where we reasonably suspect fraud.
If we cancel your policy we will return the premium paid less the amount for the period 
the policy has been in force.
Mr M would have been aware from his conversation with UKI in February 2021 that his 
policy would be cancelled if he didnt add the undeclared accidents to his policy and pay the 
additional premium. As he hadnt done that, I think it was reasonable for UKI to take that further action and send a letter of cancellation. The letter he received said his policy would 
be cancelled nine days after the date of the letter, so that was also in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of his policy. 
Mr M isnt happy that UKI sent the cancellation by normal post, rather than by special or 
recorded delivery. But there was no requirement for UKI to send the letter by anything other 
than normal post and I think it would be unfair to say UKI should have done that when there 
was no requirement for it to do so. Mr M says there was a risk he would have missed the 
letter and continued driving while uninsured. But he didnt miss the letter. He read it and was 
aware UKI had decided to cancel his policy. I dont think it would be fair to ask UKI to 
compensate Mr M for something that could have happened but didnt. 
The terms of Mr Ms policy says that where UKI cancels the policy, it will return the premium 
less the amount he paid for the period he was insured. Mr M has confirmed that UKI has 
done that. And so, overall, I think UKI has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably and I dont 
think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman