DRN-2122210
The complaint
Ms H complains that a car she took on hire purchase from Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2019 Ms H took a car under a hire purchase agreement from Advantage 
Finance. The agreement recorded that the cash price was £2,099 and that the car had first 
been registered in March 2008. The invoice for the car recorded that its mileage at the time 
was over 95,000. 
At the end of January 2020 Ms H said that there was a build-up of soot and fumes entering 
the car when she was driving it. Repairs were carried out at Advantage Finances expense. 
In early March further problems developed. These included problems with the steering 
column, a fuel injector, parking sensors and the radio. The car was inspected by an engineer 
and taken to a diesel specialist, who in turn reported back to the engineer and to Advantage 
Finance. Advantage Finance concluded from those reports that the faults that Ms H had 
reported were the result of wear and tear and that it wasnt therefore liable for them.
The garage to which the car had been taken contacted Advantage Finance about storage 
charges, and so Advantage Finance arranged for it to be moved to one of its own storage 
facilities. Ms H says she cant afford it to collect it; since the issues with the car havent been 
resolved, my understanding is that its not currently running. She referred the matter to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He set out in some detail the 
exchanges involving Ms H, Advantage Finance and the dealership from March 2020. His 
overall conclusion was to recommend that Advantage Finance refund the payments covering 
the period when the car was first unavailable to Ms H because of the initial repairs. He 
thought however that the later problems she experienced were the result of fair wear and 
tear and that Advantage Finance was not therefore liable to repair them or, as she wanted, 
to accept her rejection of the car. 
Advantage Finance didnt dispute the investigators findings, but Ms H did and asked that an 
ombudsman review them.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage Finance provided the car to Ms H under a hire purchase agreement. That 
agreement is to be read as if it included a term requiring the car to be of satisfactory quality. 
That in turn means that it should have been of the quality that a reasonable person would 
expect in the circumstances. Those circumstances in this case include the cars age, 
mileage and price. 
Theres no question that there have been problems with the car, and Advantage Finance 
paid for some repairs. I agree with the investigator that it would be fair for Advantage 
Finance to refund payments made by Ms H while those first repairs were carried out, 
together with interest at 8% simple a year from the date of payment until the date of any 
refund. As Ive indicated, Advantage Finance hasnt contested that recommendation. Since 
repairs were carried out, I dont believe it would be fair now to allow Ms H to reject the car on 
the basis of those issues. 
I must therefore consider the subsequent issues which arose. The engineer who inspected 
the car wasnt able to start it, as it had a flat battery. He did however conclude, in summary, 
that the subsequent issues were unlikely to have been linked to the repairs that were carried 
out. He also told the investigator that the reported issues with the car were the type of issues 
that he would expect in a car of this mileage and age. They could be attributed to wear and 
tear and did not mean that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
In the circumstances, I agree with the investigators findings on this issue. In concluding 
however that issues were the result of wear and tear, I should clarify that I take into account 
not only Ms Hs use of the car, but also its use before she acquired it. The fact that a car 
which had covered some 95,000 miles over nearly 12 years developed faults does not 
necessarily mean that it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Ms H has complained too about the time taken to arrange inspections with a view to 
resolving the complaint and the collection of the car by Advantage Finance. Whilst I accept 
that things took longer than Ms H might have expected, I dont believe that Advantage 
Finance delayed things unnecessarily. It was necessary to co-ordinate with the dealership 
and with relevant engineers, so I dont think Advantage Finance acted unreasonably. I also 
agree with the investigator that it wasnt unreasonable of Advantage Finance to collect and 
store the vehicle, rather than return it to Ms H; it couldnt be driven and she was seeking to 
reject it.            
For these reasons I think that Advantage Finances offer to refund payments made while the 
car was being repaired is reasonable, and I simply leave it to Ms H to decide if she wants to 
accept that offer.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Advantage Finance Ltd to take any further steps to 
resolve Ms Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman