DRN-3487890
The complaint
Mr M complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Home Retail Group) irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
On 10 December 2013, Mr M applied for a credit account with Home Retail Group. Due to 
the passing of time, its not clear what the initial credit limit was. The earliest data we have 
for the account is from 2015. In January 2015 the credit limit was £540. The credit limit 
increased five times further until it reached £1700 in February 2019.
In 2020, Mr M complained to Home Retail Group to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Home Retail Group ought to 
have made a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his 
credit limits.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be partially upheld. Home Retail Group didnt 
agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 5 May 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I set out an extract below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
e in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in
the round.
Home Retail Group will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information 
about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here.
Mr Ms complaint is that Home Retail Group made credit available that was unaffordable. It 
is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr M has not been able to 
provide any bank statements from the times in question. Home Retail Group has explained 
that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it 
was able to offer. Its possible that Home Retail Group failed to make adequate checks 
before providing Mr M with credit and for the credit increases. But even if thats true, I dont 
think better enquiries would have caused Home Retail Group to think the initial credit limit 
or the credit increases were unaffordable.
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit would have been relatively modest. And subsequently through all of the 
credit increases the account was mostly well managed. There were some under payments 
in 2016 but these were very modest. The account was less well managed after the last 
credit increase, but that would not have impacted on that lending decision. Overall, the 
payments were not missed or under paid for the most part and Mr M was not using the full 
credit limit available to him.
I have also noted the credit file that Mr M has provided. I note that for most of the time of 
the credit there are no adverse markings. There were a number of issues on a bank 
account but these do not appear to have been consistent, they were made on a relatively 
modest balance amount and the account settled before the last credit limit increase.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Home Retail Group to think that the 
credit it provided Mr M was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr M 
was managing his account or what Home Retail Group could see of his management of 
other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.
I know that Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr M to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 19 May 2022. Neither Home Retail Group nor Mr M have 
acknowledged receiving the decision or made any further submission or asked for an 
extension to do so. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to make substantive 
further submissions if they had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home Retail Group will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman