DRN-4234989
The complaint
Mr A complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc trading as Swiftcover (AXA) and their 
decision to withdraw indemnity from a claim that was made initially in 2015.
What happened
Both parties are well versed with the events that have happened during the lifetime of the 
claim. The claim itself had been ongoing since 2015 and because of this, I dont intend to list 
the timeline of events in detail.
But in summary, Mr A held a motor insurance underwritten by AXA when he and his partner, 
Miss S, were involved in a road traffic accident in 2015. Liability was agreed between AXA 
and the third-party insurer, who Ill refer to as E, on a 50/50 basis, and Mr As claim for 
personal injury, and repairs to his car, were settled. But Miss S personal injury claim was 
more complex. And she raised a claim against both E and AXA through her own solicitors. 
AXA took the decision to defend this claim and appointed a solicitor, who Ill refer to as D to 
defend them. And as part of this defence, as Mr A was the policyholder, Mr A was listed as a 
defendant.
But Mr A says he was unaware of this until November 2022, when he and Miss S chose to 
change Miss S solicitor representing her. During this transition, he became aware of AXAs 
defence, and that hed been listed as a defendant. So, he emailed D directly disputing the 
defence. D felt Mr As position presented a conflict of interest and applied to the courts to be 
removed from the case, which the court agreed and approved. Because of this, AXA felt Mr 
A had impacted their defence, and so his claims chances of success. And due to this, they 
wrote to Mr A explaining they were withdrawing indemnity from the claim altogether. Mr A 
was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A was unhappy AXA had withdrawn indemnity. And he felt this couldve been avoided 
had D, or AXA, spoken to him to explain AXAs rights within the policy he held, which 
included them being able to defend a claim on his behalf. So, he wanted AXA to reinstate 
indemnity, and instruct another solicitor to continue with the claim and its defence.
AXA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt that, despite Mr As change in 
position, the conflict of interest remained. So, they felt the withdrawal of indemnity was fair, 
and in line with the terms of the policy he held and because of this, they explained they 
wouldnt be overturning their decision. Mr A remained unhappy and so, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AXA had acted 
in line with the terms of the policy when withdrawing indemnity, considering D had 
successfully applied to be removed from the case through the courts citing a conflict of 
interest. So, they didnt think AXA needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree, and he provided extensive comments explaining why. These included, 
and are not limited to, his continued belief that had AXA, or D, contacted him to explain the 
litigation process and AXAs rights within this, then he wouldnt have sent the email he did 
which D felt presented a conflict of interest. So, he didnt think it was fair or reasonable for 
him to be placed in a situation where he may be liable for the costs paid to Miss S, should 
her claim ultimately be successful. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I appreciate the claim 
itself is complex in nature, due to the fact AXA and the third-party insurer agreed to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 basis. So, its created a situation where Mr As partner, Miss S, is pursuing 
a claim which Mr As own insurer is liable for a portion of the costs should it be successful. I 
note that because of this, and for other reasons, the claim has been ongoing for a significant 
period of time.
But this decision will focus solely on Mr As complaint raised to AXA, which centres around 
their decision to withdraw indemnity. And because of this, I think it would be useful for me to 
set out exactly what Im able to consider here. I must make clear that our service is an 
alternative to the courts. And because of this, we dont have the powers to overturn, or 
change, a ruling made by the courts themselves. I note in this situation the courts have ruled 
that there was a conflict of interest present that meant D should be able to remove 
themselves from representing AXA in the claim. As the courts have already made this 
decision, I wont be commenting on whether there was a conflict of interest, as its already 
been decided there was. So, as D were instructed by AXA to defend their position, my 
decision is based on their being a conflict of interest that prejudiced D, and so, AXAs 
defence of the claim.
And while D were instructed by AXA to represent them, its important to note D are a 
separate business altogether, regulated by a separate regulator to that of AXA. So, any 
actions D took during the defence of the claim, including the way they prepared for the claim 
and their decision not to contact Mr A to make him aware he was listed as a defendant, 
would be an issue Mr A would need to raise with D directly.
My decision instead focuses solely on the actions of AXA, in their role as insurer. And for me 
to say they should overturn their decision to withdraw indemnity, I first need to be satisfied 
theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the 
policy terms and conditions when taking this decision. Or, if I think they did act within these, 
Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Ive carefully read through the policy terms and conditions. And these explain that Mr A and 
any named driver, in this case Miss S, must not do anything which might damage the 
prospects of the claim succeeding before going onto explain that If you or the named driver 
do not keep to these conditions we may refuse any claim or with withdraw from any current 
claim.
In this case, AXA were defending Mr As position against the claim brought by Miss S 
against Mr As insurance policy. So, when considering the terms above, I think the claim succeeding would be for Miss S claim, brought independently by a solicitor of her own 
choice, to be defended.
And I can see in an email sent by Mr A to D in November 2022, he made it clear his belief 
that Miss S claim should be accepted. So, I do think this stance put forward by Mr A was in 
clear contradiction to AXAs position, and the position of D acting on AXAs behalf. I note D 
made an application to be removed following this email, which the courts approved. So, I do 
think the actions Mr A took here led to D, who were representing AXA, to be removed from 
the defence of the claim. And because of this, this left AXA without the representation of the 
solicitor they appointed, which I think its reasonable to assume damaged the prospects of 
the claim succeeding from their point of view. So, I think AXA acted in line with the terms of 
the policy when withdrawing indemnity, as this is what they said they could do.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether it was fair for AXA to rely on 
this term. And Ive carefully considered Mr As comments about why he sent the email he 
did, as he didnt fully understand the litigation process or AXAs rights in their role as his 
insurer.
I want to reiterate again that AXA arent responsible for Ds failure to make Mr A aware of 
their involvement, or that he was listed as a defendant. And within the terms of the policy Mr 
A held, which he wouldve had access to when the policy was incepted, it explains within the 
General Conditions section of the policy that Mr A must comply with the following 
conditions to have the full protection of your policyIf you or any other named driver do not 
comply with them we may cancel the policy as detailed below, refuse to deal with any 
relevant claims or reduce the amount of any relevant claim payments. The conditions then 
go onto explain that Mr A must give us full control of the claimWe may take over, defend 
or settle the claim and take up any claim in your name. You must not negotiate regarding 
any claim, settle any claim without our written permission or admit liability for any claim 
unless we ask you to do so.
I think these conditions make it clear that AXA had the ability to defend or settle the claim as 
they saw fit. And so, as Mr As own claim had already been settled, I dont think AXA had a 
duty to involve Mr A in the defence of the claim made by Miss S, especially considering the 
personal relationship between Mr A and Miss S and the complications this created. In the 
email Mr A sent to D, I think the comments he made could be taken as an attempt to 
negotiate the claim, as he was putting forward his opinion that Miss S claim, made against 
AXA, should be upheld. And this was in clear conflict to AXAs own position.
So, I think AXA acted fairly in how they processed the defence, and I think the policy 
documentation made it clear the actions they could take if Mr A broke the conditions, which I 
think he did here. While I appreciate why Mr A feels AXA shouldve made these conditions 
clearer, I think they were readily available and easy to decipher within the policy 
documentation. So, because of the above, I dont think AXA need to do anything more on 
this occasion.
I appreciate Mr A is unlikely to agree with this outcome. And I want to recognise Mr As 
comments specifically about AXA having the opportunity to contact him after he raised his 
concerns with D by email. But crucially, Mr A contacted D directly, not AXA. And once that 
email had been received, I think a clear conflict had been presented. So, I dont think AXA 
explaining to Mr A their powers over the policy in more detail at this point wouldve ultimately 
changed what transpired in this situation. And I also want to reassure Mr A I have carefully 
thought about the potential financial implications on him, should Miss S claim be successful, 
and AXA be required to pay a compensatory amount to her. But crucially, I dont think its a 
mistake from AXA that has opened Mr A up to this potential financial risk. And its also 
important to note that at the moment, it is only a potential risk and, as I cant see the claim had been concluded by the point AXA responded to the complaint, our service isnt able to 
consider potential impacts that may or may not happen.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about AXA Insurance UK 
Plc trading as Swiftcover.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman