DRN-2766134
The complaint
Mr E complains that TSB Bank plc didnt contact him about his request for a debit card. He 
also complains about poor service.
What happened
Mr E had a current account with TSB. He contacted it in June 2019 and asked for a new 
debit card. He didnt want the card to be sent to his home address because of security 
concerns. He says he asked TSB to send the card to one of its branches so that he could 
collect it there.
Mr E says that TSB told him it couldnt deal with his request on the telephone. He was told 
hed need to go to a branch. But, he says that TSB told him its branch would contact him 
about this. He never received any telephone calls from the branch. He complained to TSB. 
TSB investigated his complaint. It said its branch manager had tried to contact him, but he 
hadnt answered the call. It said its branch manager had left a voice mail. Mr E asked TSB to 
produce a log of its telephone calls to support what it had told him. TSB said it wasnt able to 
do this because telephone calls from branches werent recorded. Mr E says that when he 
spoke to TSB it didnt take his complaint seriously. He says that the tone of the person he 
spoke to indicated to him that his request would be at the bottom of a very big pile.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with this response. He complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. She said that our service couldnt comment on how TSB handled 
Mr Es complaint as complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity. She said she had looked 
into how TSB has responded to Mr Es request for a debit card. She thought TSB had made 
clear to him when he contacted it in June 2019 that it couldnt order a replacement card to be 
collected at one of its branches. It had told Mr E he would be contacted by one of its 
branches. 
Our investigator said that, although there was no log to prove that TSB had contacted him, 
she thought it was more likely than not that the branch manager had tried to phone him.
Mr E didnt agree. He said that the core issue of his complaint was that there was no proof 
that TSB had phoned him. He said our investigator had relied on hearsay and the memory of 
the branch manager. He said TSB had lied about making the call to him. Our investigator 
considered what Mr E said. But she didnt change her view.
Because Mr E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has stated that the core of his complaint is that theres no proof TSBs branch made a 
phone call to him after he contacted it on 10 June 2019. TSB had told him it would do this.
When theres a dispute about what happened, we take into account all of the information 
thats been provided. Mr E says that unless TSB produces a log of its telephone calls to 
show that it contacted him, we shouldnt accept what its said. 
It is the case that if the telephone log was produced that would be very clear evidence which 
could be used to resolve this complaint. But, TSB says it cannot provide the telephone log 
because it doesnt record calls made from its branches. 
Where there is no telephone log, I can take into account other evidence to see if it supports 
what TSB has said. That evidence includes the note which TSBs branch manager made on 
its systems when she says she tried to phone Mr E. That note is dated 13 June 2019.
Mr E has suggested that we should question the validity of the branch managers 
recollections of what happened  given the time that has passed. He also says that the 
branch was closed for three months in 2020. But, when considering the note thats on TSBs 
records, we are not relying on the branch managers recollections. The note made on TSBs 
records was made at the time when the action was said to have taken place. Its a 
contemporaneous note about a factual matter  a call having been made. So, on balance, 
having looked at this note, Im persuaded that TSB did try to telephone Mr E on 13 June 
2019.
Now, although I think its unlikely, it is possible that the note has been entered incorrectly. Mr 
E is adamant he didnt receive any call from TSB. Thats something I have taken into 
account when thinking about a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
So, Ive considered how any failure to contact Mr E about this matter wouldve impacted him. 
He says that at this time he couldnt access his account online because of issues with his 
computer. That wouldve made it more important for him to have a debit card. 
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr E made to TSB in June 2019 when he initially 
requested the replacement card. Mr E was worried about a potential problem if the card was 
sent to his home address. He explored different options with TSB to deal with his concerns. 
TSB wasnt able to facilitate any of the options he proposed. So, he asked what its policy 
was where a customer told it about problems with the security of an address to which a card 
might be sent.
TSB said that it might be possible for a branch to assist him. It said it would ask a branch to 
phone him to discuss this. It said it couldnt guarantee that a branch would be able to comply 
with his request.
Mr E says he wasnt contacted by the branch. But, I have noted he didnt follow the matter 
up until 1 August 2019 (just over seven weeks later). If he urgently required a debit card, I 
wouldve expected him to follow the matter up sooner. 
TSB had told Mr E there was no guarantee the branch could comply with his request to have 
the debit card sent to a branch. And, Ive noted that, after he contacted it again in August 
2019, TSB sent the debit card to Mr Es home address. So, on balance, although there was 
a delay issuing the replacement debit card here, I dont think TSB has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Mr E has also complained about the tone of voice which he says TSBs adviser used when 
he contacted it to ask why he hadnt been sent the phone call logs. He says the tone of voice 
suggested that his request would be at the bottom of a very big pile.  TSB should have told Mr E it didnt have call logs for phone calls from branches. So, that was why it wasnt able to 
produce them. It didnt immediately do that. 
Mr E has subsequently been informed these logs dont exist and as a result theres no new 
evidence to be considered. So, although I can understand why hes complained about how 
his request for the phone logs was dealt with, I dont think hes suffered any loss because of 
that. In these circumstances I dont think its fair or reasonable to require TSB to compensate 
him for what happened when he requested the phone logs.
Ive taken on board everything that Mr E has told us about why he feels he should be 
compensated here for what happened. But, having considered everything, Im not persuaded 
on balance that TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably. That means I dont require it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman