DRN-3818779
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) charged a fee when
cancelling within 14-days of agreeing his motor insurance policy. He doesnt think he should
be charged within this period.
What happened
Mr D says he agreed to a policy with Admiral. However, he changed his mind within 14 days
and contacted the business again to cancel. His policy was cancelled but he was charged a
£25 administration fee.
Admiral says an administration fee is chargeable when a policy is cancelled within 14 days
and that this is explained within the policy terms. It says this fee accounts for the
administration work when setting up the policy. Admiral says it hasnt made an error in
charging this fee.
Mr D says UK consumer law allows him to cancel his policy within 14 days without incurring
a charge. So, he asked our service to look into this for him. Our investigator didnt uphold his
complaint. She says Admiral is able to charge a cancellation fee within a cooling off period.
Mr D didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Let me explain.
The regulations that apply to this complaint are set out in the Financial Conduct Authorities
(FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS 7.1.1 says a consumer has a right to cancel, without penalty and without giving any
reason, certain contracts within 14 days. This is called the right to cancel. Im satisfied the
right to cancel applies to the contact of insurance Mr D had with Admiral. And that he
exercised his right to cancel within the first 14 days of taking it out.
ICOBS 7.2 deals with payment by a consumer for the service provided before cancellation. A
consumer may be required to pay an amount on cancellation including any sums that a firm
has reasonably incurred in concluding the contract. However, this shouldnt include any
element of profit. The amount payable must not:
exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already provided in
comparison with the full cover of the contract; and in any case be such that it could be
construed as a penalty.
Also, of relevance here is ICOBS 7.2.2 (3), which says:
A firm must not require a consumer to pay any amount:
(a) unless it can prove that the consumer was duly informed about the amount payable
Admiral says a £25 administration fee is chargeable when a policy terminates within the 14-
day cooling off period. In its final complaint response to Mr D it refers to its website where
this information is provided in more detail.
Ive checked online to see what other insurers charge as an administration fee for cancelling
within 14 days. Based on what Ive seen I dont think Admirals fee is unreasonable to cover
its administration costs. But it can only charge this fee if it can show that Mr D was duly
informed about it when he agreed to take out the policy.
I asked Admiral to provide evidence that shows Mr D was told a charge applied before he
agreed to take the policy. As this was done via an online application, I suggested this could
be done by providing screenshots demonstrating the customer journey Mr D followed. I said
this needed to show that Mr D was duly informed of the charge in order for the cancellation
fee to be payable.
Admiral responded providing a screenshot from its website that it says Mr D would have
been directed to. This shows the cancellation charges if this happens within 14 days of the
policy being taken out. I can see this says a charge of £25 is applicable in Mr Ds
circumstances if the policy is cancelled within 14 days.
However, Admiral hasnt shown the customer journey Mr D followed directed him to read this
information. It hasnt shown that he was asked to read and confirm his understanding before
he proceeded to purchase the policy. For example, by checking a box.
In the absence of clear evidence from Admiral to demonstrate Mr D was duly informed of the
£25 cancellation fee, I cant fairly agree that it was reasonable for it to charge this amount.
To put things right Admiral Insurance Company Limited should refund the £25 charge plus
8% simple interest per annum from the date the fee was applied until the refund is paid.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
should:
refund the £25 cancellation charge plus 8% simple interest from the date the charge 
was paid until the refund is provided. *If Admiral considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Admiral didnt respond with any further comments or information. 
Mr D responded to say that Admiral has told him that it would charge an administration fee 
even when cover has not yet started. He asks that his complaint is updated to include this 
point.Mr D says having looked at other insurance providers none of them charge an administration 
fee for cancelling within the cooling off period. He also asks how it can be determined that 
the amount of the administration fee is fair. He believes consumer law allows him 14 days to 
cancel without the application of any fee. 
Mr D says the purpose of his complaint is that he feels the administration charge is unfair 
and against consumer law. He refers to a web page published by the Citizens Advice Bureau 
(CAB). He says this indicates that consumer law prohibits Admiral from charging any fees 
within the 14-day cooling off period. Mr D says ICOBS provides guidance for companies not 
for consumers. He says hed like to see evidence in consumer law that clarifies the position 
around administration fees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ds comments about Admirals approach to charging administration fees 
prior to cover starting. However, before our service can look at an issue it must first have 
been referred to the business for it to consider and provide a response. Mr D can of course 
raise further issues with Admiral, but I cant consider this point here. 
Mr D says when looking at other insurers he cant see that they charge administration fees in 
the way Admiral has. I acknowledge his comments. From what he says he has looked at one 
insurance provider, as well as the low cost brand also owned by this same insurer. I dont 
doubt what Mr D has said. But as discussed in my provisional decision there are insurers 
who currently charge administration fees in the same way Admiral has.
I note Mr Ds reference to the CAB webpage. Ive read this information, but I can also see 
that the CAB publishes information that confirms an insurer may charge an administration 
fee within a 14-day cooling off period. This information can be found here: 
https://www.citizensadvice.org.uk/consumer/insurance/insurance/cancelling-an-insurance-
policy/.
Our service is here to resolve individual disputes. Were not the regulator and its not our role 
to set the rules the industry must follow  this is the role of the FCA.  
I understand Mr D feels strongly that when charging an administration fee within the 14-day 
cooling off period, Admiral is acting contrary to what is required under consumer law. 
However, I explained in my provisional decision that it is the FCAs ICOBS rules that are 
relevant here. 
Mr D may wish to direct his concerns to the FCA with respect to the ICOBS rules and the 
consumer law he has referred to. 
Having considered Mr Ds comments, Im not persuaded to change my decision. I think the 
£25 administration fee Admiral sets out in its policy terms appears reasonable and 
proportionate for the reasons stated in my provisional decision. But I dont think Admiral has 
shown that the customer journey Mr D followed clearly highlighted this information. So, Im 
satisfied that my original decision is fair.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance Company Limited should:refund the £25 cancellation charge plus 8% simple interest from the date the charge 
was paid until the refund is provided. *If Admiral considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman