DRN-1465112
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs M acquired an almost new car costing £14,273 funded by a hire purchase 
agreement. On the day she acquired it she tried to park it on a hill, but the handbrake 
wouldnt hold properly. She took the car back to the dealer the next day and it couldnt find a 
fault. It kept the car for several days and then returned it to her. Mrs M says she asked to 
reject the car on the day she took it back and put this in writing while at the dealers 
premises. The dealer says it has no record of this.
Mrs M continued to use the car, but when she took it in for the annual service in July 2019 
she was told there had been a recall issued by the manufacturer in February to address 
issues with the handbrake. In September 2019 Mrs M complained to VFS. It rejected her 
complaint as it considered no fault had been found and it had not been notified of her 
concerns until over a year had passed.
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted that Mrs M hadnt taken the car 
back for further investigation though she had experienced intermittent problems. Our 
investigator said that it seemed that there had been a fault with the car, but there was no 
evidence that Mrs M had sought to reject it within 30 days.
She suggested Mrs M take the car back for the recall remedial work to be carried out. On a 
separate matter she noted the agreements showed the car had done 1,000 miles at the point 
of sale, but the dealers records showed it was 662 miles. She said VFS should amend the 
agreement to reduce the risk of Mrs M being charged for excess mileage. She also 
suggested VFS pay Mrs M £100 for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
VFS agreed, but Mrs M didnt and contacted the dealer to ask for a copy of her letter of 
rejection. The dealer said it no record nor recollection of receiving one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I can see that Mrs M is disappointed with the handbrake on her car and she says that it has 
affected where she has chosen to park. I must admit I find it unusual that given the strength 
of feel she has expressed that she didnt take the car back to the dealer one more than the 
one occasion. I appreciate the dealer didnt find a problem when she took it back, but if she 
continued to have problems it would seem reasonable to me that the dealer be asked to look 
at it again.
I note from the records that the mechanic gave advice on the use of the handbrake, but in 
February the manufacturer issued a recall as a problem with the handbrake tension was 
identified. I acknowledge Mrs M says she wasnt aware of this, but I cannot hold VFS 
responsible for that.
Putting things right
I note Mrs M says she asked to reject the car within 30 days, but this is disputed by the 
dealer. In any event, I am not persuaded that the issue was one which merited rejection. I 
gather the remedy is relatively straightforward. Mrs M has continued to use the car albeit that 
she may have had some concerns and has taken care to avoid hills when parking. For that 
inconvenience I agree she is entitled to compensation. I also agree that the agreement 
should be amended to show the correct mileage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Mrs M £100 compensation and to amend her agreement to show the 
correct mileage at the point of sale.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman