DRN-2867412
The complaint
Mr A and Mr B complain, as trustees of a trust, about the service they received from HSBC 
Bank UK Plc when setting up internet banking.
What happened
Mr A and Mr B are trustees of a trust that banks with HSBC. 
Mr A and Mr B approached HSBC with a view to setting up internet banking for the trust 
back in March 2018. They say that they were only able to successfully log on in early 
September 2019, following errors and delays on the banks part.
In response to three complaints while the matter was ongoing, HSBC accepted responsibility 
for some of the delay  but not all of it. In summary, it said:
The first three requests it had received for internet banking couldnt be processed for 
legitimate reasons. The first wasnt signed in accordance with the account mandate, 
the second wasnt signed by the accounts primary user and the third contained an 
error in the account type. It wrote to the trustees on each occasion to explain what 
was wrong.
It had subsequently needed documentation from the trustees to confirm the correct 
account type, which it hadnt received until late November 2018.
There was then some delay on the banks part in getting back in touch with the 
trustees. While branch staff had made some attempts to reach them over the phone, 
more couldve been done  such as sending a letter to request that they get in touch. 
It paid the trustees compensation of £150 in March 2019 for the inconvenience this 
had caused.
Further delays were subsequently caused by the bank, when the trustees didnt 
receive an application form or welcome letter. It paid a further £150 compensation for 
this in September 2019.
Mr A didnt accept HSBCs response and referred their complaint to us. He wanted the bank 
to pay compensation for his time at his hourly rate and the cost of his travel to attend bank 
branches, which amounted to a total of £3,473.54. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought it should be upheld, and 
recommended that HSBC increase its offer of compensation to a total of £500. In summary, 
this was because she thought that the bank had made errors in setting the account up in the 
first place  which had then been the cause of some delay in arranging the internet banking. 
And even after this had been corrected in March 2019, thered been a further delay by the 
bank in completing the internet banking registration  which wasnt done until August.
Mr A accepted our investigators recommendation, but HSBC didnt respond. So with no 
resolution, the complaint was escalated to me for review.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month, setting out why I didnt intend to 
require HSBC to take any further action. 
I explained that this was, in part, because the limits to our jurisdiction meant that we could 
only investigate any acts or omissions by HSBC on or after 1 April 2019. On this, I said:
Were not free to consider every complaint thats brought to us  there are rules that 
set out the limits of our jurisdiction. These rules  known as the DISP rules  are set by 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and can be found in its 
handbook online. 
DISP 2.7.1 says that we can only consider complaints referred to us by (or on behalf 
of) an eligible complainant. DISP 2.7.3 sets out those who are eligible in more detail, 
which includes trustees of a trust.
There are, though, limits that apply to the size of a trust from which we can consider a 
complaint  and this has changed in recent years. While the limit is currently a net 
asset value of less than £5 million (at the time the complainant refers the complaint to 
the financial business), this only applies to complaints about acts or omissions that 
occurred on or after 1 April 2019. This is set out in Transitional Provision 51, which is 
also contained in the DISP rules. For complaints about anything before that date, the 
limit is a net asset value of less than £1 million.
Mr A and Mr B told us that the trust they represent has a net asset value of £2 million. 
Based on the above, this means that were unable to consider a complaint from them 
about anything that happened prior to 1 April 2019.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A and Mr B, especially at this 
stage in our process and as much of their complaint relates to things that happened 
prior to 1 April 2019. But Im afraid I have no discretion to set aside these rules. I am 
therefore only able to consider their complaint insofar as it relates to acts or omissions 
by HSBC on or after 1 April 2019.
I went on to set out my provisional findings on the aspects of the complaint that fell within our 
jurisdiction. While I thought there had been some shortcomings in the service Mr A and Mr B 
had received since 1 April 2019, I thought the compensation that HSBC had already paid 
was fair  so I didnt think it needed to do anything further. I said:
In its response to a complaint from Mr A of 26 March 2019, HSBC had said that it 
would be in touch with him to discuss the outcome of a review of the account type. I 
understand this arose from issues with how the account had been set up (seemingly 
as a partnership  not trustee  account). 
It seems HSBC attempted to call Mr A that day, but didnt reach him. Having heard 
nothing, Mr A called HSBC on 21 June. After speaking with an adviser, the bank says 
it sent out a business internet banking application form that day  but Mr A didnt 
receive this. HSBC also tried to call Mr A again on 24 June and 12 July, but again 
didnt reach him. In the interim, Mr A wrote to HSBC to express dissatisfaction that 
hed not heard anything from the bank and that the trustees remained without internet 
banking. While I can see that HSBC was taking some steps to move things along and contact 
Mr A, I think it ought reasonably to have done more here. It seems that the most 
important thing was to ask that he reapply again and provide him the means to do so. 
When it hadnt been able to reach him by phone, I think it couldve followed up  with 
further calls or by letter or email  to explain the next steps and provide the requisite 
form. This only happened when Mr A chased things up, causing delay and 
inconvenience.
On 9 August 2019, the trustees submitted the application and the trust was 
successfully registered for internet banking a few days later. There then appears to 
have been a further delay in setting it up, which I understand to be  in part  because 
the bank didnt notify the trustees that the registration was complete. So Mr A chased 
things up again, before proceeding to get things set up towards the end of that month. 
In summary, I think there were some shortcomings in the banks service over this 
period that caused delays and, subsequently, inconvenience to the trustees  both in 
following up with the bank and being without internet banking facilities for longer than 
necessary. Its right that theyre compensated for this.
Mr As timeline of events details a total of three and half hours spent on the matter, as 
well as an hour spent travelling. I think some of this would always have been 
necessary  such as completing the application form and setting up the internet 
banking for the first time. But some of it was avoidable, and the consequence of 
HSBCs errors. 
HSBC has already acknowledged that its service from March 2019 onwards fell short 
of the standard Mr A was entitled to expect and paid a further £150 compensation on 
top of the £150 it had already paid for earlier problems. Bearing in mind the limits of 
what I can consider here, I think the additional £150 represents a fair way to put things 
right  so Im not intending to direct HSBC to do anything more.
Mr A and Mr B confirmed receipt of my provisional decision but didnt reply with any further 
comments or information for me to consider, other than to express disappointment with the 
decision and that they supported our investigators recommendation of £500 compensation. 
HSBC didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new evidence or information for me to take into account, Ive 
not reached a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision. So this 
decision confirms my provisional findings, as summarised above.
I recognise that Mr A and his fellow trustees will be disappointed by this decision. Id like to 
highlight that a significant factor in my decision to amend the award proposed by our 
investigator is that of the limits that apply to our jurisdiction. So Im not saying that there were 
no errors or shortcomings by the bank prior to 1 April 2019  rather, that we do not have the 
power to investigate them (or to award compensation for them). 
The scope of my review was limited to acts or omissions by the bank on or after 1 April 
2019. And for the impact of errors caused by the bank during the relatively short period of time for which the matter was ongoing thereafter, I think HSBC has already fairly 
compensated the trustees. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman