DRN-2545315
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt reimbursed him for his losses after he 
transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much detail 
here. However, in summary, Mr S has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked into 
sending £50,000 to invest in a product that appeared to be offered by a legitimate company. 
However, unbeknown to Mr S, he had actually been speaking with a scammer who was 
operating as a clone of the legitimate company. Between February and March 2019, Mr S 
made the following payments:
25 February 2019 - £20,000
26 February 2019 - £20,000
20 March 2019 - £10,000
Mr S made the payments himself online but feels Lloyds should have done more to question 
him about the payments before they allowed them to leave his account. In particular, he 
thinks Lloyds shouldve checked that the account he was making the payments to was in the 
name of the legitimate investment company he thought he was dealing with. Mr S also thinks 
that Lloyds should have asked him to contact the legitimate company to check that the 
person he was speaking with worked for them. Mr S feels this wouldve exposed the scam 
and prevented him from making the payments. Hes also pointed out that Lloyds would have 
been aware of the prevalence of this type of scam at the time he fell victim to it and should 
have been more vigilant in protecting him. 
Lloyds didnt agree that it could have done anything more to protect Mr S and so he brought 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt the transactions were unusual and out 
of character when compared to Mr Ss usual account activity. But even if Lloyds had 
contacted Mr S to discuss the payments before they left his account, it was unlikely the scam 
wouldve come to light. She didnt think there was anything about the circumstances leading 
up to the payments that wouldve put Lloyds on notice that Mr S mightve been at risk of 
financial harm. And she didnt think it wouldve become apparent to Lloyds that Mr S was 
dealing with a cloned company. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr S and I have a lot of sympathy for 
the situation he has found himself in. I can understand why he feels so strongly that his 
money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about what hes told us 
happened at the time and Lloyds actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to hold Lloyds liable for his loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr S, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Lloyds should reimburse him with the money he has unfortunately lost to the scammers. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud 
and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with 
than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr S when he transferred £50,000 to a fraudster and when he reported 
the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Mr S authorised the transfers himself. Because of this, Lloyds had 
an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as 
Ive explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.So, Ive first thought about whether the initial transfer Mr S made could be considered 
out of character and unusual when compared with his usual account activity. And, having 
reviewed Mr Ss statements for the months leading up to the scam, Im satisfied a 
payment of £20,000 was unusual for Mr S and uncharacteristic for this particular 
account - there had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent times. The 
transfer is significantly higher than those made from the account previously and it is 
being made to a new payee. And so, Im satisfied Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably, 
and as a matter of good practice, to have done more here. I think it ought to have made 
enquiries about the purpose of and the circumstances leading up to the payment before 
it processed it.
Because Im satisfied Lloyds shouldve called Mr S to discuss the payment before it 
processed it, Ive then had to think about whether any further intervention wouldve 
ultimately made a difference or not. 
It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation between Mr S and Lloyds 
would have unfolded. And so, I must base my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened had Lloyds intervened further. Ive done this by considering the usual 
types of questions I wouldve expected Lloyds to ask Mr S had they contacted him - 
alongside what Mr S has told us about the circumstances that led to him making the 
transfers. Having done so, I dont think further intervention from Lloyds wouldve made a 
difference. Im persuaded its most likely that the scam wouldnt have been uncovered 
and Mr S wouldve still gone on to make the payments regardless. Ill explain why.
Had Lloyds contacted Mr S, Im satisfied he would have told them he was making a payment 
to an investment company - Mr S believed he was making a legitimate payment to a 
legitimate company and wouldve had no reason to say anything else. Once aware that Mr S 
was planning to invest, there are some additional questions about the investment itself I 
wouldve reasonably expected Lloyds to ask. Such as if Mr S was cold-called, how he came 
across the company, whether hed completed any checks on the company and what returns 
hed been promised to see if any of the answers mirrored what the bank ought to have 
known about the way investment scams tend to be perpetrated. But overall, Im not 
persuaded, on balance, that Mr Ss answers to any of the above wouldve necessarily given 
Lloyds reasonable cause for concern.
Mr S has told us that, although he was cold-called, he had invested in the past with non-high 
street companies and because of this, he often received such calls to ask if he wished to 
invest further. And so Im not persuaded that in this particular case, this was wholly unusual 
or unexpected for Mr S. And Mr S had already carried out the types of checks I wouldve 
expected Lloyds to direct him to. He tells us he had already checked the FCA register and 
Companies House to assure himself that he was dealing with a genuine regulated firm. It is 
only with the benefit of hindsight that we now know that a legitimate companys details were 
being used. Neither Mr S or Lloyds wouldve been aware of this at the time.
In addition to speaking with the scammers directly over the phone about the investments he 
was making, Mr S had been given persuasive literature and documentation relating to the 
investments he was entering into. And the rate of return wasnt so wholly unrealistic that I 
think it wouldve given Lloyds reasonable doubt about its authenticity. So, overall, Im 
satisfied Mr S was persuaded the company was genuine and I think it wouldve taken more 
than the bank making the type of enquiries Ive highlighted above to persuade him not to 
continue or alert him to the scam.Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted Lloyds to 
the scam, but Im not persuaded it shouldve. The FCA wasnt aware of the fact the original 
investment company had been cloned and didnt place a warning on the register until after 
Mr S made his last transfer. And so there wouldve been no way for Lloyds to have known 
that this is what had taken place either. And there was no other information or additional 
checks Lloyds couldve carried out at that time that wouldve given it reasonable cause to 
believe Mr S was the victim of a scam. Lloyds wouldnt have had the ability to check that the 
receiving account was in the name of the intended payee, as Mr S has suggested, and 
would have had to rely purely on the sort-code and account number provided. At the time 
everything looked above board. And so I dont think Lloyds couldve done more to uncover 
the scam in this particular case and I dont think it couldve done more here to prevent the 
payments leaving Mr Ss account. 
The recovery of funds
Mr S told Lloyds hed been a victim of fraud on 17 February 2020. Once notified of this, I 
wouldve expected Lloyds to act immediately in trying to recover the funds from the 
beneficiarys bank account. In this case, Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank within an 
hour of notification and so Im satisfied it has met its obligations here. But unfortunately, by 
this point, all of Mr Ss funds had been removed and there wasnt anything further Lloyds 
could do at this point either. 
Summary
I want to stress here that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr S has found himself 
in but I dont think his loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of Lloyds and so I 
cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund him. The fault, and loss, here lies with the fraudsters 
themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman