DRN-3889079
The complaint
Mr S says that Curtis Banks Limited (CBL) is responsible for the poor servicing of his Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and the mis-handling of his request to switch his 
arrangements to an alternative provider. He says this has caused him substantial financial 
detriment and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr S had a SIPP with Alliance Trust. In 2012 that firm was acquired by CBL. He says ever 
since he has experienced poor service. He told this Service his fund is currently worth 
around £6 million, with the principal income coming from commercial real estate. He said 
that CBLs role in managing his SIPP was essentially limited to regulatory matters and that 
several other parties, such surveyors, investment managers and lawyers dealt with the bulk 
of what needed to be done.
Although Mr S has noted his general dissatisfaction with CBLs service since it took on 
responsibility for his pension, the initial complaint point that gave rise to his case with this 
Service was about a delay to the refinancing of mortgages connected to a commercial 
property investment within his SIPP. Three loans were due to mature on 20 December 2020. 
Nationwide were no longer offering commercial lending, so the loans needed to be paid-up. 
The process to refinance the loans started in May 2020 and the matter was finalised on 18 
December 2020 within the deadline. Hampden & Co were the new finance provider.
Mr S says that when refinancing, CBL was required to pay fees relating to the valuation 
report, legal fees and broker fees. He says it failed to do this and that Hampden & Co 
effectively set-up an overdraft facility related to his SIPP account in order that the bills could 
be settled. The SIPP repaid Hampden & Co once the refinancing proceeds were received. 
This caused a delay in settling the refinancing on the property. Mr S also provided other 
examples of where he says because CBL was slow to pay fees, later invoices were re-
issued and paid by his new pension Trustees. He felt that a failure to pay charges due in 
proper time undermined his professional integrity.
Mr S says as a result of CBLs services not being fit for purpose in December 2020 he 
initiated the switch of his SIPP to Mattioli Woods (MW). I understand CBL received the 
necessary forms from him in February 2021, these requested a full in specie transfer of his 
SIPP. The transfer also included a request to make an interim cash payment of £213,000 to 
MW from the funds.
CBL accepts it failed to inform Mr S that it couldnt transfer the cash to MW without his SIPP 
being fully reconciled. Although it said when it sent its instruction was effectively academic, it 
did offer Mr S redress of £2,241 based on 8% simple annual interest on the sum hed 
requested be transferred for the period between 22 January and 11 March 2021.
Mr S confirmed £200,000 was finally transferred to MW in February 2022, following his 
instruction of a solicitor. He also says a sum of around £43,000 remains in the Hampden & 
Co account despite his requests for it to be released.
Mr S raised a range of other complaint points. For example, his portal SIPP showed various 
bank accounts, one of which was called Suffolk Life. The purpose of the account appears to 
have been to take funds from the other SIPP accounts and pay money on. Around £61,000 
was paid through this account. He says he was only able to reconcile around £30,000 of 
movements. But despite repeated requests, he said an explanation or breakdown was not 
provided by CBL.
Mr S said his quarterly pension drawdown payments from CBL always had to be chased. His 
September 2020 payment wasnt received until November 2020. His next payment was due 
in December 2020. He had to hasten this and was told it would be paid in January 2021. But 
as hed started the process to switch provider he requested the payments be stopped. 
However, because there were delays in effecting the switch to another provider, and 
specifically the freeze on the Hampden & Co account, MW wasnt able to finance his 
pension payments.
Mr S instructed solicitors and a letter was sent to CBL on 14 December 2021 setting out his 
claim. In addition to the matters Ive already outlined this raised other concerns including 
about the inaccuracy of its record keeping; the poor collaboration between different teams; 
and overcharging. It also identified financial losses and costs it said hed incurred as a result 
of CBLs failings.
CBL didnt respond to Mr Ss solicitor. Its final response had already been issued to him on 
16 August 2021. In this it apologised for certain matters it had got wrong. For example it 
acknowledged problems with the move of work between two of its offices that led to 
complications in the process of refinancing his SIPP properties. Although it noted this had 
completed within the deadline. It accepted its failure to deal with his request for an interim 
cash payment in January 2021  here it offered redress of £2241. It also accepted it had 
failed to keep Mr S properly informed and so also offered him a payment of £500 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset it had caused.
Mr S wasnt happy with CBLs offer. He thought the compensation should be far higher and 
that he should have access to the £43,000 still frozen in the Hampden & Co account.
An investigator considered his case, and while she thought CBL should increase its award to 
£1250 for the trouble and upset it had caused him, she thought that would be sufficient. She 
noted for example, that the issue of frozen funds appeared to be a matter of deadlock 
between the parties. She didnt think CBL were being unreasonable in requiring the 
settlement of all other matters prior to its release. Mr S disagreed he said his losses were 
nearer £50,000.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ss complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. As neither party has 
provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart from my initial findings 
and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why. 
Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by CBL 
for Mr S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ss complaint. 
I note Mr Ss complaint has evolved, expanded and focussed in on particular issues at 
different stages of his journey with us. Having reviewed his case file I found the letter from 
his solicitor to CBL of 14 December 2021 appeared to broadly summarise his concerns. 
Those were:
i. The delay of the switch from CBL to MW as his new SIPP provider.
ii. A failure by CBL to release funds from the Hampden & Co account, which was 
requested in January 2021 (accepting that £200,000 was paid over in February 
2022).
iii. A requirement for an audit trail showing the £61,000 disbursements paid through the 
Suffolk Life Annuities account, and rationale for such.
iv. A requirement for a full audit of the VAT position.
v. Invalid requests for payment of charges that had already been settled.
vi. Repayment of over-payments of scheme fees, which had continued to be levied 
despite the level of service provision.
vii. Correction of over-paid building insurance premium, following transfer of a property in 
June 2021.
viii. Failure to pay his drawdown pension.
ix. Payment of compensation for associated financial loss/charges.
x. General poor servicing and handling issues.
From subsequent exchanges, I deduced certain of these matters had been substantively 
resolved. In particular Mr S has now seen a schedule which shows itemised payments from 
the Suffolk Life Annuities account (III). Exchanges between the parties in December 2021 with agreement about the VAT liability to be paid to HMRC (IV); reconciliation of bills already 
settled (V); and pro-rata refund of building insurance (VII).
Further Mr Ss response to the Investigators view of 3 August 2022, and his subsequent 
communication to CBL of 11 October 2022 suggested the important outstanding issues for 
him were the: the freezing of his Hampden & Co account for an extended period, and the 
consequential investment refinancing costs; (II); excessive and or incorrect scheme fees 
from CBL (VI); and exceptional costs he apportions to CBL, from his solicitor, surveyor and 
his new SIPP provider, which he asserts are beyond the usual costs of switching SIPP 
providers (IX).
I asked Mr S to confirm my understanding of the current position. He responded in some 
detail, but much of what he provided was already on file. Ive not read anything from him that 
makes me think my interpretation isnt broadly correct. He did provide information about how 
he estimated the £50,000 loss figure he asserted in response to the Investigators view:
The extraordinary costs of transferring my pension to Mattioli Woods over and above what 
would be normal and reasonable may be considered under the following headings:
A  Freezing the £243,000 cash in the Hampden and Co account since December 2020. 
This has not only resulted in my not being able to receive a pension, it has also meant that 
additional costs have been incurred as the SIPP has had to borrow money to honour its 
obligations regarding investments already committed to.
B  My own business has incurred costs in terms of time well in excess of what might be 
reasonable in dealing with Curtis Banks. My business charges for advice at 
£250/hourWe have incurred enormous time costs that have prevented me from allocating 
resources to my normal clients over the last two years as my office has had to allocate well 
over 200 hours of time (certainly an average of more than 2 hours a week).
C  The new Trustees, Mattioli Woods have billed me this year the following:
-26th February 2021 - £1,074.00 inc VAT  for dealing with the transfer and set up of 
the new SIPPwith a new bank account and completing the required procedures.
-31st May 2021 - £6,421.80 inc VAT - £351.50 of this fee related to the annual 
scheme charge. The balance was based on an hourly rate cost of dealing with Curtis 
Banks which for the reasons given above was both time consuming, frustrating and 
endless.
-30th September 2021 - £5,722.80 - £2,269.00 related to the annual scheme fees and 
the balance of £2,500 plus VAT was again based on an hourly rate cost of dealing 
with Curtis Banks which for the reasons given above was both time consuming, 
frustrating and endless. Please note, Mattioli Woods reduced this additional fee by 
20% a s a gesture of goodwill as they recognise how difficult it was to deal with Curtis 
Banks.
D  I have had to appointsolicitors at an initial agreed fee of £1,800 to pursue a claim 
against Curtis Banks to release the frozen funds of £243,000 which are being held against 
invoices already paid and to seek compensation.
In addition, there has been the cost of the delay in providing funds for investment.
Ill now summarise my thinking on the substantive outstanding matters in this case.
The freezing of Mr Ss Hampden & Co account, and the VAT issue and investment 
opportunity loss
Something Mr S told us is important context for my consideration here:Managing a SIPP for a high net worth individual does not require investment management 
of the individual assets held. In my case, my lawyers are, a first class London firm of 
lawyers; property owned by the fund in Winchester is managed by, a leading firm of 
chartered surveyors; independent valuations are carried out by, again, a leading firm of 
chartered surveyors; shares are held by ; property investment is managed by who have 
a first class record; one of the LLPs is managed by, who is advised on the legal side by 
, a leading provincial firm of lawyers. Consequently, the role of the Trustees is regulatory, 
it is not to try and manage the day to day assets and this was certainly the model adopted by 
Alliance Trust where I had a first class manager
There were several parties with different roles and responsibilities which had some dealings, 
either directly or indirectly, with Mr Ss SIPP interests. So, Im mindful this wasnt a simple 
matter of dealings between him and CBL. Inevitably, the more parties there are involved in 
transactions the greater the potential for communication issues to arise.
In October this year Mr S told CBL:
You havent yet provided Mattioli Woods with the transfer statement which is something 
required to finalise the transfer. This whole process has taken nearly 2 years and incurred 
very substantial costs and loss of income to the Trust as you froze some £240,000 cash for 
a period of almost two years. This also required me to refinance some investments at 
additional cost.
Mr S initiated the switch of his pension provider in December 2020. I understand the 
necessary completed paperwork was received by CBL in February 2021. But it wasnt until 
February 2022 that the bulk of his cash fund (£200,000) was released. So a period of around 
one year, not two as he asserts.
CBL has accepted there was a delay in it informing Mr S it couldnt transfer the cash to MW 
without his SIPP being fully reconciled. It said:
The property held an external property manager and we had to receive information from this 
third party to reconcile the account. We are unable to have estimated this as we were not in 
a position to know exactly what the property manager had invoiced for.
When we first received the clients instruction for an interim payment, we were not aware 
that this couldnt be made until the account had been reconciled and therefore we should 
have sent an instruction to Hampden and Co within five working days. Had this happened, 
we would have known earlier that an interim payment wasnt viable and this was only noted 
once we did send our instruction on 11 March 2020. However, when we sent the 
instruction is a moot point as we would still be unable to make the interim payment.
Part of the reconciliation process required related to VAT returns that needed to be 
completed by CBL for Mr Ss SIPP. This matter appears to have been complicated by the 
failing relationship between the parties. Asked why he thought it took until December 2021 to 
agree a position on VAT, Mr S said:
Total and absolute incompetence by Curtis Banks. The Managing Agents issue VAT returns 
in respect to money collected from Tenants every quarter to enable the SIPP to pay the 
VAT. If you look at the information attached and understand that filing VAT returns is really 
quite straightforward when you have so few entries in any one quarter, there really is no 
excuse. I personally file VAT returns both in my own name and for the businesses I run 
every quarter and we are never late. Indeed, HMRC normally dont give you even a few days 
grace, let alone two years. This process of providing information to the Trustees has gone on 
for years and years. And there was never previously an issue. I believe this is all part of 
Curtis Banks trying to transfer everything to Ipswich and losing all the data in the processBut its clear Mr S was also concerned about the time it was taking for CBL to pay invoices 
for various professional fees related to management of his SIPP interests, he felt this was a 
reputational issue. And so he made arrangements with Hampden & Co and MW to pay 
these. There was a breakdown in communication. CBL says:
The invoices had already been accounted for in previous submissions and when we were 
notified that these had been settled elsewhere, we were required to then change the VAT 
submission.
The original invoices should have been paid from the Curtis Banks SIPP and as such were 
added to our system. Unfortunately, I think due to liquidity issues these invoices were unpaid 
and therefore we were confirming to the client that these were outstanding. We were 
subsequently informed that the client had arranged for the invoices to be reissued and 
settled by the new SIPP provider. Without being privy to this information we would still show 
these as liabilities to the SIPP and were requested in line with our procedure. I can see that 
once we were told that the invoices had been settled by a third party these were removed 
from our ledger.
Any invoices issued while the property was held at Curtis Banks should have been settled 
by us, I am unable to speak in regards to why the new provider agreed to settle invoices that 
were originally issued to Curtis Banks.
The coming together of the parties in terms of the respective understanding of what had 
happened, appears to have taken place in December 2021. This seems to have provided a 
basis for CBLs consideration of the position of Mr Ss Hampden & Co cash fund and 
enabled the release in February 2022 of £200,000. In regard to this matter it said:
Ordinarily, during a transfer out, we would close all accounts held in the SIPP and cash 
would be returned to Curtis Banks for onward transfer to the new provider.
In this instance, the client was a co signatory on the account and did not want for the cash 
to return to Curtis Banks and instead have it moved directly to the new account issued by the 
new provider. Having a linked external bank account to the property is not within our usual 
remit, along with transferring cash in specie between accounts, as we would not class cash 
as a transferable asset.
This caused a stalemate between all parties, with the client refusing to sign and our need 
for the cash to be returned to the SIPP for final reconciliation. Our Group Legal Team had 
discussions with the client and it was agreed that £200k could move between the accounts if 
the client was willing to sign for this. This was outside of our standard process and was a 
gesture of goodwill on our part, in an attempt to help the client.
Mr S says by freezing his funds CBL caused him a loss in terms of investment opportunity. 
Theres certainly an argument to be made in relation to the period between February 2021
and February 2022 for the £200,000.
The problem for Mr S is that he hasnt evidenced when he notified CBL of the alternative 
arrangements he was making for payment of invoices relating to his SIPP, which it had 
already catered for in terms of his VAT return. And its agreement to this. Unless he can 
overcome this hurdle, I dont think he can carry his argument for investment loss because he 
didnt take steps to mitigate this.
The problem for CBL is that even though it was catering for the invoices on Mr Ss SIPP VAT 
return, it hadnt paid the invoices which were many months old. Ive seen some of the 
communications between the parties, where he is proactive and it is somewhat 
unresponsive. There also appear to have been issues in communications between its 
different offices, which are not a matter he should need to concern himself with.So, Ive decided to direct CBL to refund Mr S 50% of his basic annual SIPP administration 
fees for 1 year. I dont think it would be reasonable to go beyond this given that it was still 
providing a service for his SIPP while it was awaiting transfer to another provider.
Mr S is still in dispute about the residual sum of around £43,000 which remains in the 
Hampden & Co account. Ive reviewed CBLs terms and conditions concerning the switch of 
pensions. Section 14 is relevant and says (bolding is my emphasis):
You can request us by written notice to transfer the value of your SIPP to another registered 
pension schemeat any time, subject to applicable legislation and HMRC rules. This will be 
done as soon as is reasonable following your instruction.
A transfer out may be made in cash or in specie
We will only complete a transfer out once payment of all fees and costs have been 
paid. If you instruct us to transfer out in specie and there is inadequate cash within your 
SIPP to settle any outstanding fees or costs, we reserve the right to sell investments in 
accordance with our order of disposal policy, a copy of which is available on request, in 
order to cover the payment of those fees or costs prior to completing the transfer out. 
Any annual fee already paid or due to be paid to us prior to a transfer out being requested 
will not be rebated either in full or in part..
CBL has stated:
The current state of play is that we still require for the remaining cash to be moved from 
Hampden and Co back to Curtis Banks to allow for prefunds on the clients account to be 
repaid and for the final reconciliations to happen but the client is still refusing to sign.
Mr S initially failed to respond to the Investigators question as to why as a co-signatory on 
his Hampden & Co account he was refusing to sign for the release of funds back to his 
former SIPP, and whether this was related to his dispute with CBL about what monies it was 
due. Hes now confirmed this was the position, saying:
Given that this has now been some two years, during which time I have incurred 
extraordinary costs, I should see no reason why I should instantly accept their derisory 
offer.
I agree with the Investigator here when she concluded, generally speaking, money owed 
should be paid. The pursuit of a complaint, and its outcome one way or another, shouldnt 
interfere with settlement in this case. It follows that Im not making an award in respect of the 
£43,000, for example for lost investment opportunity while funds have sat in cash.
Excessive and or incorrect scheme fees and exceptional costs arising from CBLs failings
 In October this year Mr S wrote to CBL saying:
Curtis Banks also seem to have paid themselves very substantial fees over the last 18 
months before transfer, potentially up to £33,000 whilst indicating in an annual statement 
that the fees were only £5,500. This is part of a more general complaint that there is no 
financial transparency. In addition, Curtis Banks continue to invoice me for annual fees - 
their most recent invoice was issued on 1st June 2021 for the period up to 31st May 2022.
CBL responded saying:
We are unsure where the client is getting the £33,000 from in regards to our fees. All fees 
charged are available to the client on his SIPP portal, with confirmation of our fees available 
on our website. I can confirm fees charged from 2020 to date are £11,135.67. This covers fees for three years, for a SIPP that holds 2 properties. However, should Mr S provide 
evidence of the fees he is noting in the £33,000, I will happily investigate this further.
The schedule of fees levied by CBL, which Mr S has seen, appears to bear out CBLs 
testimony here. It isnt our role to provide a checking service, but having reviewed the fees 
charged since 2020, I cant see theres anything obviously wrong. I also note CBLs offer to 
Mr S to investigate any outstanding areas of disagreement on charges.
I understand that part of Mr Ss argument on fees, for example in relation to the property 
transfers, is that all the work was done by other parties like MW and the lawyers. While Im 
sure those businesses carried out work on his behalf, he hasnt demonstrated CBL did no 
work in these areas nor that it wasnt entitled to charge for such in accordance with the 
agreement it had struck with him.
I also appreciate that Mr Ss general dissatisfaction with the service he received from CBL 
leads him to conclude he should receive a refund. Ive already set-out how Im approaching 
that matter.
In responding to the Investigators view, Mr S asserted a financial loss or costs arising from 
CBLs failings amounting to £50,000. This included:
- Costs arising in his business because he says he had to allocate resources to 
dealing with CBL rather than his normal clients. He estimated well over 200 hours of 
effort had been expended, chargeable at £250 per hour  so around £50,000.
- Charges from MW for the transfer of his SIPP to the new arrangement, scheme fees 
and costs arising in its dealings with CBL. The headline cost here was said to be 
around £13,000.
- Solicitor fees of around £2,000 arising from his instruction to pursue CBL for release 
of his frozen Hampden and Co account funds.
Mr S brought his case to this Service as a retail client of CBL. The costs he says his 
business has incurred through the use of its resources in furthering his private interests isnt 
a matter I can properly consider.
With regard to his claim about the costs arising through his arrangement with MW, as the 
Investigator noted there were always going to be costs associated with the switch of his 
pension and the establishment of a new SIPP. He hasnt done enough to demonstrate that:
i. These costs were exceptional in the circumstances; nor that 
ii. Even if the costs were higher than would usually have been the case, this was the 
sole responsibility of CBL. For example, as Ive already found, the delay in 
transferring the cash from the Hampden & Co account was largely due to the 
reconciliation exercise required beforehand.
Regarding solicitors fees Mr S incurred in securing the release of the bulk of his Hampden & 
Co cash fund. I dont have sufficient evidence to suggest he wouldnt have made the same 
progress without legal input. I think the unblocking of this matter related more to agreement 
of sorts being reached with CBL on the position on VAT returns in December 2021 and 
visibility on the scale of likely outstanding remaining fees and charges.
Im mindful this matter was out of the ordinary. CBL also had to engage its legal team and 
incurred higher overheads as a result. And the agreement reached appears to have been a 
compromise between the parties, made with a degree of goodwill on the part of CBL. So, Im 
not providing for the re-imbursement of Mr Ss legal costs.Further, its of note this is a free Service. And so theres no need for individuals bringing 
complaints to incur professional costs in relation to the matters in dispute. While people may 
choose to do so, such costs in most circumstances wont be re-imbursed.
Other matters
I agree with the Investigator when she found that Mr S shouldnt have had to chase CBL for 
the payment of his pension each quarter. Subject to matters such as liquidity, which doesnt 
appear to have been a problem with Mr Ss SIPP, payments should be made on time. 
However, as Mr S started the switching process and cancelled the pension drawdown 
arrangement, I dont think CBL made an error in not making further payments.
I understand the point Mr S makes about there being insufficient funds in his MW SIPP due 
to issues with the move of his cash funds, but the circumstances surrounding that matter has 
already been dealt with.
Putting things right
Mr S started the process to switch his SIPP in December 2020, we are two years on and 
matters are still outstanding. Curtis Banks Limited is responsible for several failings 
including: inaccurate record keeping; a failure to pay invoices; and sometimes poor 
communications between its offices. These things caused Mr S considerable frustration and 
led to him to find work-arounds.
I agree with the Investigator when she concluded CBL had provided Mr S with a poor level of 
service throughout the switching process. This was a complex transfer and it shouldve done 
more to have kept him informed, provided the relevant information, and responded to his 
requests.
In considering compensation Im also mindful of Mr Ss own actions, and those of other third 
parties, in influencing how events unfolded.
I see no reason to disturb Curtis Banks Limiteds existing offer to Mr S to pay him £2,241 for 
what it said was a delay in informing him about whether a partial transfer of funds from his 
Hampden & Co account was possible.
I also require Curtis Banks Limited to reimburse Mr S 50% of its standard annual 
administration fee for one year, reflecting on the standard of service it provided, but also 
recognising that it did still undertake considerable work for him.
Turning to the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr S. When Im considering a 
complaint like his, I think about whether its fair to award compensation where failings have 
occurred, separate from pure financial loss. This isnt intended to fine or punish a business  
which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition of the 
emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Curtis Banks Limiteds actions was greater than just a minor 
inconvenience or upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Curtis Banks Limited should pay Mr S an additional £750, on top of the £500 award it had 
already made for the distress and inconvenience it has caused through the things it got 
wrong in dealing with his SIPP arrangements over an extended period of time.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require Curtis Banks 
Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman