DRN-2307869
The complaint
Mr E complains that when he tried to transfer money to Revolut Ltd, the money didnt appear
in his account, and Revolut gave him incorrect information about what had gone wrong.
What happened
Mr E said he moved some money from an e-money provider to Revolut. He said he made
five transfers, but none of the money turned up in his account. He said hed made the same
sort of transfer before, and the money shouldve been there immediately.
Mr E said that he kept contacting Revolut about the transfer, and it said that it hadnt
received anything. It told him to talk to the e-money provider. Mr E did that, and the e-money
provider reassured him that the money had been sent.
After some time, Revolut suddenly said it had received all the money after all. It was being
held for compliance checks, and Revolut needed some more information from Mr E. Mr E
provided it, and Revolut paid the money into his account. Mr E said it took 11 days for him to
access all of his money. And hed spent a very considerable amount of time chasing up
Revolut to find out where his money was. He said he wanted £300 in compensation to make
up for the earnings hed lost during this time.
Revolut said it was sorry there had been a delay and hed had to speak to a number of its
agents. It offered Mr E three months of its premium plan for free.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Revolut hadnt
caused the delay between when Mr E raised his concerns, and when Revolut told him what
extra information it needed. He thought a third party was responsible for that.
Our investigator thought Revolut acted promptly when it was notified that it needed to get
further information, and when that further information was supplied. He understood that Mr E
had been inconvenienced because Revolut told him that any delays werent on its side, so
Mr E spent time talking to the business that he used to send the money. But because
Revolut acted reasonably in requesting extra information, our investigator said he wouldnt
ask it to pay compensation.
Mr E said he couldnt understand how Revolut could get his money, its compliance team
keep it for 11 days while Revolut customer services team was misleading him and assuring
him the money hadnt been received, and we could then say that Revolut hadnt done
anything wrong. Because he didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me
for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Revolut hasnt told us exactly what caused all of the delays with the transfers Mr E 
made. It initially blamed the e-money provider. I havent seen anything to suggest to 
me that this issue was caused by the e-money provider, and I think that Mr Es time 
was wasted, and delays were caused because he was told this.
We know that the money wasnt paid into Mr Es account for more than a week after 
it was sent, but Revolut hasnt told us how long it took for these payments to reach it. 
Mr E told us that his previous payments all arrived immediately. I think its likely that 
these payments reached either Revolut, or the third party processing payments on 
behalf of Revolut, very shortly after they were sent.
Revolut then told Mr E that it needed some compliance information for its payment
processor. I dont know if the information that had been requested was for an in-
house team or a third party that Revolut engages to process incoming payments on 
its behalf. But I dont think the answer to that matters, for current purposes. I think its 
Revoluts responsibility to make sure that incoming payments are processed 
promptly, and that enquiries about missing payments are dealt with quickly and 
accurately. My view on that would be the same whether Revolut does this processing 
itself, or engages a third party to process incoming payments on its behalf.
I dont think that Mr Es incoming payments were processed promptly, and I think he 
was given incorrect information about what had happened. Revolut offered three 
months of free premium service to make up for what went wrong. But Mr E had 
already said to Revolut that he doesnt want to use this account in future, so I dont 
think this offer was an appropriate way to resolve the problem. I think Revolut should 
pay him some compensation.
Mr E said he lost £300 in income during this time, so he wanted Revolut to pay that. 
But our service wont necessarily award compensation on the basis of lost income. 
Rather, we seek to assess the impact of a complaint on the complainant. Ive 
considered this complaint carefully, and on what Ive seen so far, I think a payment of 
£150 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome. Both Mr E and Revolut can now 
submit more evidence, if they wish. But on what Ive seen so far, thats what I 
currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final 
decision. 
Revolut acknowledged my decision, but didnt reply. Mr E said he was happy to accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd must pay Mr E £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman