DRN-2658351
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
claims made on his home insurance and home emergency insurance.
What happened
Mr R contacted LV on 19 December 2019. LV say Mr R told it his neighbours guttering was 
ineffective and was causing damage to the internal walls of his property and his windows. LV 
registered a claim on Mr Rs home emergency cover and a claim on his home insurance 
cover. LV arranged for a home emergency contractor to attend Mr Rs property on 21 
December 2019. LV say that when the contractor arrived at Mr Rs property, he couldnt 
carry out the work and that the contractors report noted that - because the leak was coming 
from Mr Rs conservatory roof - a conservatory fitter or glazier would be needed.
   
Mr R rang LV on 6 January 2020 to find out what was happening with his home emergency 
claim. LV told him a specialist would need to visit him, which is something LV might not be 
able to help him with. Mr R cancelled the visit scheduled for 10 January 2020 for LV to 
investigate Mr Rs home insurance claim. Mr R said he no longer wanted to pursue his home 
insurance claim because of the issues hed experienced so far with LV. Mr R asked if details 
of his home insurance claim could be removed from LVs records. LV said it couldnt do this 
but agreed to record the home insurance claim as incident only.
  
Mr R complained. He was concerned that LV had recorded details of his home insurance 
claim on an external fraud database. Mr R wanted his premiums refunded because LV 
hadnt met its obligations because he still had water in his conservatory. Mr R told LV a few 
days later that the leak had caused further damage.  
LV issued its final response which referred to the points it had made to Mr R in an earlier 
email a few days before. These were that LV:
agreed Mr R had received poor service because it didnt arrange for the right person 
to attend Mr Rs property, which led to delays; 
would be willing to reopen his home insurance claim and carry out an inspection of 
the full damage caused by the escape of water; 
said it hadnt logged Mr Rs details on an external fraud database;
would cover the cost of Mr Rs roof repairs up to the £500 policy limit on his home 
emergency insurance if Mr R provided it with an invoice for the work;  
wouldnt refund Mr Rs premiums, but would waive any cancellation fees should Mr R 
wanted to cancel his policy; 
would offer Mr R £250 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Mr R sent an invoice to LV for the repair of his roof for £535 excluding VAT and plus 10% for 
the supply of materials. He also told LV hed need £1,500 which would allow restoration of 
other, further damage he said had been caused by LVs poor service. LV restated it would 
pay £500 towards Mr Rs roof repairs, but would only consider the other damage if Mr R 
reopened his home insurance claim. LV said it would need to see estimates for any other 
work.
A few months later, Mr R called LV asking again for the £1,500 hed requested. LV looked 
again at Mr Rs complaint but wouldnt change its decision. Mr R told LV hed been of the 
understanding that LV would pay him the £1,500 hed requested. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us. He didnt think LV had responded adequately to his home 
emergency claim. He said the home emergency contractor couldve sealed the roof with 
silicon, which would have temporarily resolved the issue. He said that even though LV seem 
to acknowledge its error, it would only pay him £500 and not the £1,500 hed requested. 
LV told our investigator it felt it had sent the right contractor to Mr Rs property based on 
what Mr R had told it about his neighbours guttering. And the contractor had done what was 
necessary to prevent further water ingress. 
Our investigator issued her view but didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said LVs offer of 
£250 compensation for poor service and £500 towards Mr Rs costs was fair and 
reasonable. She said it was reasonable for LV to want to inspect any further damage but that 
Mr R cancelled the appointment. She said there was no evidence that the further damage 
had been caused by any delays or that LV had recorded Mr Rs claim on any external fraud 
database. She said LV was entitled to record the incident on its own systems.
Mr R did not agree with this view. He said he shouldnt have to register a claim on his home 
policy because the damage had been caused by LV not adequately dealing with his home 
emergency claim. Our investigator didnt change her view. She said that without an 
inspection, its not possible to say if the further damage related to the delay.
The complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has raised a separate complaint about his legal expenses cover with this service, so 
this decision only concerns Mr Rs complaint about his home emergency and home 
insurance claims.
  
I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this is not the outcome Mr R was hoping 
for, so Ill explain why.
 
LV says its contractor did what was necessary to prevent further water ingress. Mr R says 
more could have been done by LVs contractor to fix the leak and that by not fixing his 
conservatory roof, LV caused consequential damage to his property. Ive not seen any 
evidence of the damage Mr R describes and LV havent yet been able to view the further 
damage Mr R reports or consider its cause. Ive also not found any evidence LV ever agreed 
to pay Mr R the £1,500 he requested. So it wouldnt be reasonable or fair for me to instruct 
LV to pay Mr R £1,500.
LV have said it will only consider Mr Rs request for £1,500 if he reopens his home insurance 
claim. But Mr R feels LV should not only pay him the £1,500 hes requested but should do so 
without him registering a claim on his home insurance.  Its not unreasonable for LV to want to assess Mr Rs claim for further damage as part of a 
potential home insurance claim. Home emergency policies dont usually guarantee 
permanent repairs, so a permanent repair of the issue causing the home emergency is 
usually carried out through a home insurance claim. So I dont think LV is being 
unreasonable here by insisting Mr R reopen his home insurance claim so that it can assess 
the damage and its cause. Mr R would still be free to raise any concerns or objections he 
may have about the outcome of his claim with LV. He would also be free to bring any 
concerns about the outcome of the claim to this service once LV has responded to them. But 
if Mr R chooses not to reopen his home insurance claim, this service is unlikely to be able to 
help him further here.
 
Mr R complained to LV because he was concerned details of his home insurance claim had 
been recorded on an external fraud database. Ive not seen any evidence that LV ever 
recorded any of Mr Rs details as such. But LV contacted Mr R the same day Mr R raised his 
concern with LV and reassured him that it hadnt recorded his claim as fraudulent. So LV did 
what Id have expected it to do here. 
LV also told Mr R it would amend its database to show the event as incident only rather 
than a claim but said it wouldnt remove details of the incident from its database. I dont think 
LV is being unreasonable here.
 
Mr R says he would like a refund of his premiums. But I dont think it would be fair to LV if I 
were to award him this as Mr R has been on cover for all of the risks in his policy. LV have 
agreed to pay Mr Rs home emergency claim up to the maximum claim limit. It also tried to 
help Mr R resolve any outstanding issues with his roof through a home insurance claim and, 
as part of this, arranged a visit to Mr Rs property on 10 January 2020.
Because the cause of the further damage Mr R describes hasnt yet been investigated by 
LV, I think LVs offer to pay Mr R the maximum claim amount of £500 under his home 
emergency cover and £250 compensation for any delays is fair and reasonable. If LV hasnt 
yet paid these amounts to Mr R, it should do so as soon as is reasonably possible.  
My final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman