DRN-2749165
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurants) handling of a claim 
under her gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R has a gadget insurance policy with Assurant. 
She damaged her watch In November 2020 and made a claim on her policy for its repair. 
Assurant accepted the claim.
Mrs R sent the watch to Assurant. But it said the watch was beyond economic repair. So, 
instead of repairing it, Assurant offered a settlement amount. The amount was based on the 
cost of buying a refurbished replacement of the same make and model. 
Mrs R was unhappy with this and complained to Assurant. She said the settlement amount 
wasnt enough for her to replace her watch. She said she couldnt get the same colour 
watch. And she was unhappy that Assurant couldnt return the original watch, which was of 
sentimental value to her. She felt that her watch had been repairable. And that shed not 
been given the chance to do that when Assurant hadnt returned it. 
Assurant said that the policy terms stipulate that it can provide a refurbished watch as a 
suitable replacement. It said it didnt guarantee to replace items with the same colour. And it 
said its policy terms didnt require it to let someone know if their device was beyond 
economic repair.
Unhappy, Mrs R brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think that 
Assurant had done anything wrong, as it was entitled to provide a refurbished watch as a 
replacement. He also thought that Assurant was entitled to destroy the original watch.
Mrs R didnt agree. She felt strongly that Assurant shouldve contacted her before destroying 
her watch. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Looking first at the policy document, the policy terms state:
Replacements
 Where we replace the device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand new) 
device.
 We will attempt to replace your device with one of the same colour but we cant guarantee 
to do this or replace any limited or special edition device.
So Mrs Rs policy, like all other gadget insurance policies Ive seen, provides that it may 
replace an insured watch with one that has been refurbished. It also states that it cant 
guarantee to replace the insured device with one of the same colour. Nor can it guarantee to 
replace a limited or special edition device. We dont consider that these terms are unfair. 
And in my opinion this is clearly set out in the policy terms. 
Mrs R says that the settlement amount Assurant offered wasnt enough to replace her watch 
for an identical one. But Assurant has provided information showing that the same make and 
model was available for the settlement amount. So Im not persuaded that the settlement 
offer was too low. 
Mrs R says that its impossible to get a replacement watch of the same colour with the 
settlement amount. But Assurant has said that the policy doesnt provide cover for colour. 
And the policy terms listed above confirm this. So I cant uphold this part of the complaint. 
Mrs Rs watch was deemed to be beyond economic repair. Under the policy terms, Assurant 
was entitled to provide a refurbished replacement or offer a settlement. 
After Assurant had told Mrs R that her watch had been deemed beyond economic repair, 
she asked for it to be returned to her. It was of sentimental value. And she felt shed be able 
to get it repaired elsewhere. But Assurant were unclear whether this was possible. The 
agent Mrs R spoke to didnt know if the watch had been disposed of or not. 
Four days later Assurant called Mrs R to confirm that her watch had been disposed of and 
so couldnt be returned. Given the watch was of sentimental value to her, I can see that this 
wouldve been upsetting.
Assurant says that it didnt dispose of the watch prematurely. It says: a customer sends 
their device to us under the knowledge that we will either repair it, or replace it/provide a 
cash settlement. We do not hold items that are deemed beyond repair indefinitely, in case 
the customer wishes for it to be returned to them, as this is not a process we have. It is not 
an option for a customer to have a device returned to them if we deem it beyond repair as 
we will have already attempted a repair on the device and therefore it may be in a number of 
different parts. 
Its likely that in assessing whether the watch was repairable or not, it was taken apart. This 
means it became unlikely that anyone else could repair it. 
But by then Assurant had met its obligations under the policy. It had offered the settlement. 
And in doing so the watch had become its property. So it was entitled to keep it and/or 
dispose of it as it wished. So by the time Mrs R asked for her watch back, it belonged to 
Assurant. So it did nothing wrong when it disposed of it. 
Mrs R says this is unfair. She feels that Assurant shouldve contacted her before destroying 
her watch. Unfortunately, theres nothing in the policy terms which mean Assurant needs to 
do this. Its a matter of insurance law that once an insurer has provided full indemnity it 
acquires the policyholders rights over the insured item. So, once Assurant had settled the 
claim, the watch belonged to it. 
I understand Mrs Rs disappointment, but I dont consider that Assurant has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. And I dont intend to ask it to do anything further in relation to this claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman