DRN-4494913
The complaint
Mr W complains that when Tymit Ltd (Tymit) closed his account it refunded the credit 
balance of £1.11 to an account he was unable to access. Mr W wants to know where his 
balance was refunded to.  
What happened
Mr W held a Tymit account. Mr W deposited £4.92 into his Tymit account using a third party 
payment provider. On 21 December Tymit informed Mr W it was no longer offering a 
particular service and that it was going to close his account. Tymit advised Mr W that it 
would refund credits to his account from the account they originated from. At the time Tymit 
closed Mr Ws account he had a credit balance of £1.11.
Tymit says it refunded this amount to an account number ending in 6275 which was the 
account the funds originally came from on 7 February.
Mr W says he never received this into his account and had never heard of this account. Mr 
W says he checked with the third party payment provider he used to make the deposit if it 
knew of this account but was referred back to Tymit for an answer. 
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. He wants to know where his money went. Tymit 
says that it refunded the same account as where the money originated from and that Mr W 
should chase this up with the business who it refunded the money to.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion that Tymit 
hadnt done anything wrong as it did what it said it would do and refunded the credit balance 
to the account it originated from and that Mr W should take his concerns up with this 
business to track down the balance. 
Mr W disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 November 2023. In my provisional decision, 
I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I invited both parties to let me 
have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. Mr W confirmed his 
acceptance of my decision and Tymit confirmed receipt but failed to provide  any new 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
My role is to look at the problems Mr W has experienced and see if Tymit has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly looking at all the evidence. And, where theres a 
dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have 
happened in light of the evidence. 
And having done so Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Tymit says that it sent the balance back to the account it originated from and have provided 
screen shots showing that £4.92 was deposited on 15 December from account ending 6275 
bringing his account balance to £2,069.43. And that on 7 February the account balance of 
£1.11 was refunded to the same account. 
But I dont think this shows me that the £4.92 originated from account ending 6275. All this 
shows me is that this passed through or was received from this account and that Tymit 
refunded £1.11 back to this account. 
Mr W says the deposit of £4.92 he made to his Tymit account was made through a third 
party payment provider through its app and that he doesnt hold an account with this 
payment provider as it doesnt hold money  it is just a payment service.
Mr W says hes never received the credit balance back and hes never heard of the account 
Tymit says it refunded the money too. Mr W thinks that Tymit has made a mistake and 
refunded his credit balance of £1.11 to the third party payment providers corporate account   
Mr W has also provided a message received from Tymit on 12 January advising that the 
£1.11 balance of his account originated from two separate amounts (£1.07 + £0.04) and that 
it was trying to refund this to the account it was received from, but it had identified an error 
that its development team was investigating.
Mr W says the two different amounts of £1.07 and 0.04 originated from two different sources 
through the third party payment app and that he thinks Tymit has made a mistake by 
returning this to the third partys corporate account. 
Its clear that something has gone wrong in the refund of the credit balance Mr W held in his 
Tymit account. And having considered everything  I think this is likely due to an error on 
Tymits part. Indeed, I can see from its message it agreed an error had occurred which was 
being looked into from its development team. 
I appreciate Mr W would like to know where his balance went, but based on the information I 
have, its not possible to provide an answer to this. And although I accept the amount 
involved is minimal, I think Tymits investigation into Mr Ws complaint is unsatisfactory. So 
to put things right I think Tymit should compensate Mr W £50 for the inconvenience caused 
by not refunding his balance or explaining what went wrong.
As Tymit hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, and Mr W has 
accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Tymit Ltd and direct it pay 
£50 fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman