DRN-1879327
 
The complaint
Mr U applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc to buy a new
investment property. NatWest issued a mortgage offer in April 2019, but later withdrew it.
What happened
Mr U applied for the mortgage in December 2018. A valuation report was completed on 
10 December 2018, and the surveyor said a more detailed inspection of the property was 
required. Mr U provided a copy of the more detailed inspection to NatWest in March 2019 
and, upon reviewing that, the surveyor was satisfied the property was suitable for mortgage 
purposes.
NatWest issued a mortgage offer on 8 April 2019 and from then it was just awaiting 
completion.
Mr Us solicitor wrote to NatWest on 15 May 2019 to say it had met with Mr U to sign the 
contracts and Mr U said he had recently lost his job. It went on to confirm Mr U was looking 
for a new job and was optimistic that it wouldnt take long, and it asked for NatWests 
position with the mortgage offer.
NatWest said it couldnt proceed until Mr U had secured new employment. It withdrew the 
offer until such time and placed the application on hold. It said once Mr U had found a new 
job, he could provide a copy of his employment contract and things could proceed from 
there.
In late May 2019 Mr U said hed been offered work already, but he was waiting for the right 
role. As Mr U didnt come back to NatWest to confirm hed secured a new job by 
October 2019 his offer expired and the application lapsed. 
Mr U complained to NatWest in December 2019. It rejected the complaint saying the terms 
of the mortgage offer stated it could be withdrawn if there was a material change to Mr Us 
circumstances, which there had been.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. Mr U has asked for the case 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr U wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order
to reach the right outcome.
Mr U is understandably unhappy and frustrated at the offer being withdrawn. Its unusual but 
allowed in certain circumstances. The mortgage offer states it is conditional upon NatWest 
being satisfied that:
There has been no material change in your circumstances since the date of this Offer, 
which we were not aware of, which could affect your ability to afford the loan. By this, we 
mean a change to your circumstances which, had we known about it at the time of making 
this Offer, might have resulted in us being unable to provide the Offer to you or only being 
able to provide the Offer to you for a lower amount.
Mr U lost his job which was a material change in his circumstances. NatWests lending 
criteria for buy-to-let mortgages requires a certain level of income, so had Mr U lost his job 
before 8 April (and NatWest had been made aware of that fact) then it wouldnt have issued 
the mortgage offer. Because of this NatWest had the right to withdraw the offer in line with 
the above stated offer term. This is normal industry practice and allowed by the regulator. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied NatWest did nothing wrong when it withdrew the 
mortgage offer as Mr U had a material change in his circumstances such that he no longer 
met NatWests lending criteria.
Mr U has said its unfair as the mortgage should have completed before he lost his job, but I 
cant hold NatWest liable for how long this application took. 
The surveyor visited the property within a week of Mr U applying for the mortgage. On 
10 December the valuation report was completed and that said a more detailed report was 
needed before the surveyor could confirm the property was suitable security for the 
mortgage. Mr U didnt provide that more detailed report until March 2019. The surveyor 
approved the property on 14 March and whilst there was a slight delay in the offer being 
produced (which happened on 8 April) that wasnt significant as nothing further happened 
until 14 May when the solicitor confirmed Mr U had lost his job. Having considered 
everything Im satisfied it wasnt NatWests fault that the application took so long.
Finally, Mr U has said NatWest should cover his costs as it withdrew the mortgage offer. Ive 
considered this point carefully as the valuation fee is said to be non-refundable unless  
your application is declined, for a reason other than as a result of the valuation report in 
which case it says a full refund of the fee will be given. But Im satisfied this clause doesnt 
apply because Mr Us application wasnt declined; it was approved, and a mortgage offer 
was produced. 
Whilst the mortgage application (post-offer) had to be put on hold until Mr U found a new job, 
NatWest didnt decline it which is a very different thing. Instead NatWest simply put the 
application on hold by withdrawing the mortgage offer until Mr U provided confirmation of his 
new employment. Had Mr U secured new employment before the mortgage offer lapsed in 
October 2019 then Ive no reason to believe the offer wouldnt have been reinstated. Having 
considered everything, Im satisfied there are no grounds for me to order NatWest to refund 
the valuation fee. Nor does it need to cover Mr Us other costs as it did nothing wrong when 
it withdrew the mortgage offer until Mr U had a new job.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman