DRN-3047727
Complaint
Mr M has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
applied to his current account. Hes said he wasnt notified that the charges were for his 
overdraft.
Background
Mr Ms complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
Mr M says that he wasnt notified that the charges being applied were for his overdraft. But 
Ive been provided with a copy of a letter which notified Mr M of the change to Barclays 
overdraft charging structure. Ive also been provided with copies of annual statements 
detailing how much he was paying to use his overdraft each year.
What Mr M has said suggests he is arguing he didnt receive Barclays letters. But the letters 
were correctly addressed using Mr Ms address details. So while its possible Mr M may not 
have received the letters, or paid much attention to them perhaps because he didnt realise 
the significance at the time, Barclays did what it was required to And I dont think it acted 
unfairly as it appears to have taken reasonable steps to notify Mr M how much he was 
paying to use his overdraft. 
That said, even though Barclays notified Mr M of the charges, it still wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr M if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ms account 
in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware 
Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were periods 
where Barclays continued charging Mr M even though it ought to have known he was in 
financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case. 
Ive looked through the account ledgers provided throughout the period concerned. And I 
cant see that Barclays ought to have been aware that Mr M might have been struggling 
during the period weve looked at. Mr M did use his overdraft. And while Im not seeking to 
make retrospective value judgements over Mr M expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. 
Equally, I cant ignore the fact that Mr M has said he would have cleared his overdraft and 
not used it if it had been made clearer to him this is what he was being charged for. This 
suggests that he wasnt in difficulty and was instead choosing to use his overdraft, albeit on 
the erroneous assumption, he wasnt paying anything to do so. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr M wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything here which ought to have alerted 
Barclays to potential financial difficulty and which meant that it would have been fair and 
reasonable for it to step in here. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr M, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think Barclays charged Mr M in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it 
was unfair to do so. As this is the case and I think that Barclays took reasonable steps to 
notify Mr M that it was charging him to use an overdraft, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M  especially as it has taken 
sometime for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman