DRN-3875084
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in March 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions of the 
installer. Mr W says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be self-
funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr W and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures indicating a possible 
range: from £229.29 to £316.02. I think these figures are conspicuous; they are not buried in 
some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is £5,756, payable over 36 
months; that is, three years. This document was signed by Mr W immediately below those 
figures, and so I am satisfied that the installers salesman did bring this information to his 
attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr W could 
be forgiven for overlooking it. However, one third of the amount borrowed  which was 
nearly £6,000  would clearly come to almost £2,000 a year. That is obviously much, much 
higher than the benefit figures for the first year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer really misled Mr W about the 
benefits and cost of the panels. It was made clear to him that the panels would not be self-
funding during the term of the loan. So I dont think it is plausible than the salesman told him 
otherwise. It does not seem likely to me that the salesman told him the panels would pay for 
themselves at the same time as asking him to sign a piece of paper that emphatically said 
they would not.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman