DRN-2898409
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality
What happened
In June 2020 Mr R entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a 
used car. The car was around five years old and had a mileage of 53,000. The car had failed 
its MOT and so had some repairs carried out and a new MOT undertaken before Mr R 
collected it from the supplying dealership. The car passed this second MOT with no 
advisories.
However, on the way home, Mr R says that the engine management light (EML) illuminated 
and so he contacted the supplying to dealer to inform them what had happened. Mr R says 
he was advised that because the car had a modified exhaust this was the cause for the EML 
coming on.
Mr R was concerned about the EML being on constantly and so took the car to another 
garage for a diagnostic test. This test showed that the O2 lambada sensor had a fault. The 
supplying dealer agreed to repair the sensor at no cost to Mr R.
Mr R says that after the repair he used the car to drive to and from work. He also says that, 
on occasions, the EML would illuminate but only for a few seconds and then would turn off. 
He says he didnt worry about it as the fault had been fixed and the supplying dealer had 
said the modified exhaust could cause the light to come on. However, Mr R says he then 
noticed the clutch didnt feel right. Shortly afterwards, at the end of September 2020, the car 
broke down and had to be recovered and taken back to Mr Rs home. 
Mr R arranged for a mechanic to inspect the car at his home. The mechanic said they 
thought the cylinder head gasket had failed and the car would need stripping down to see 
the extent of the repairs required. The mechanic prepared a short report on their findings, 
which Mr R sent to both the supplying dealer and MotoNovo. Mr R also complained about 
the quality of the car he had been supplied with.
MotoNovo arranged for the car to be independently inspected. The independent engineer 
inspected the car in November 2020 and noted that, at the time of the breakdown, Mr R had 
had the car for 77 days and driven 3,600 miles in it. They also agreed that it appeared the 
car had suffered from a cylinder head gasket failure. The independent engineer said that, in 
their opinion, this fault wasnt linked to the earlier sensor repair and had arisen due to 
general in-service wear, and this fault hadnt been present or developing since the point of 
sale. The engineer also noted that it was possible the car had required further repairs 
because Mr R had continued to use it after the fault had arisen.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said in light of the independent engineers 
findings the fault with head gasket hadnt been present or developing at the point of supply. 
Mr R was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended Mr Rs complaint should be upheld as she wasnt persuaded 
the car was as durable as would reasonably expected and that, under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015, the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  She said 
MotoNovo should cover the cost of the repairs, reimburse Mr Rs monthly payments under 
the agreement since the end of November 2020 and pay him £200 compensation.
MotoNovo disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said that Mr R was aware that the 
EML was showing intermittently but chose to do nothing about it, and his continued use was 
likely to have cause further damage to the car. It also said that the independent engineer 
had said that, in their opinion, the fault with the head gasket hadnt been present or 
developing at the point of sale and this should carry weight when considering if the car had 
been of satisfactory quality when Mr R acquired it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr R is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods 
are supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car was around five years old, and with a mileage of 53,000. And I think 
that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected 
there could be issues with maintenance and repair after a reasonable period of time, 
as components of the car would have been subjected to some wear and tear through 
use. I dont think there would be an expectation the car would be fault free as there 
would have been had the car been new.
Ive seen that the car required some repairs before it passed its MOT in June 2020, 
and these were undertaken after Mr R had agreed to take the car and before he had 
actually collected it. There were various repairs carried out including to the catalytic 
converter, an issue with the lambada reading and with the engine MIL.I have also 
seen that a modification had been carried out to the exhaust before Mr R acquired 
the car.
MotoNovo said that if there had been an issue with the head gasket, this should 
have been picked up during the subsequent MOT that the car undertook and passed 
without advisories. But Ive seen that it is also possible any issue with the head 
gasket wouldnt have been noted as the MOT tests the car emissions rather than inspecting the engine. So I dont think I can give weight to the absence of any fault 
being noted with the head gasket during the second MOT in June 2020.
I appreciate the opinion given by the independent engineer was that the fault with the 
head gasket wouldnt have been present or developing at the point of sale, but they 
did not address whether, in their opinion, the car had been reasonably durable for its 
age and mileage before requiring this significant repair. And durability, as set out 
above, is an aspect of whether goods are of a satisfactory quality or not. 
I think its fair to say that different components of a car are expected to last for 
different periods of time and things like brakes and tyres are expected to require 
repair and maintenance more frequently than other parts of a car. I appreciate that a 
head gasket is a part that can fail and need repair, but I think this type of repair isnt 
one that would be reasonably expected in car that was around five years old with a 
mileage of 56,600. Mr R had only been using the car for 77 days and had driven an 
additional 3,600 in it when it broke down. I think it is reasonable for me to say that 
the car has suffered from a premature break down of this part, and that it isnt as 
durable as a reasonable person would expect taking into account its age and 
mileage.
MotoNovo has raised that Mr R has contributed to the failure of the head gasket and 
any subsequent other damage to the engine by continuing to drive it, despite the 
EML being illuminated and warning him the car had a fault. However, I think Mr R 
has provided credible and consistent evidence about why he continued to use the 
car. He has explained that, unlike the previous fault the light was intermittent rather 
than on continuously, he had been told that the fault had been repaired and he had 
also been told that the modification carried out to the exhaust could affect the EML. I 
dont think Mr R behaved recklessly by continuing to drive, he genuinely had no 
reason to suspect the car had a serious fault developing. I also think his belief was 
reasonable, taking into account the age and mileage of the car and how long he had 
it for. I dont think a reasonable person would have suspected there was a problem 
with the head gasket at that time. I dont hold Mr R responsible for the number of 
repairs that the car may now require due to the fault with the head gasket.
So, regardless as to whether the fault was developing or not at the point of sale, I am 
satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at its point of supply due to its lack of 
durability, and the need for a repair to the head gasket arising so soon after Mr R 
had acquired it. Im therefore going to uphold his complaint.
I havent seen any evidence that the car isnt repairable and MotoNovo are entitled to 
an opportunity to repair it under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, so I am going to ask 
that it cover these costs. Ive also seen that Mr R has being paying for the car under 
the hire purchase agreement but has been unable to use it since the end of 
September 2020. I think its fair for MotoNovo to reimburse him all his payments until 
the car is repaired and back on the road, together with interest.
Finally, Ive seen that Mr R has been distressed and caused unnecessary 
inconvenience having to deal with the faulty car. I think that £200 compensation fairly 
addresses the impact this has had on him. 
Putting things right
I am asking MotoNovo to do the following:Arrange and pay for the necessary repairs to the car.
Refund Mr R his monthly payments from the end of September 2020 until the date 
the car is repaired. Interest is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faulty car.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Im asking MotoNovo 
Finance Limited to do the following:
Arrange and pay for the necessary repairs to the car.
Refund Mr R his monthly payments from the end of September 2020 until the date 
the car is repaired. Interest is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman