DRN-2932723
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) 
wrongly declined his application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr S held a business account with Clydesdale and approached it for a Bounce Back Loan of 
£50,000 in October 2020. Clydesdale declined the application on the basis that it wasnt 
satisfied Mr S was trading prior to 1 March 2020, as required by the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme eligibility criteria. 
Mr S appealed the banks decision, sending further information that he believed 
demonstrated his eligibility. But despite this, and a subsequent complaint, Clydesdale 
maintained its decision. So Mr S referred the matter to us. He said that the bank had acted 
contrary to the Bounce Back Loan guidelines as set by the government and had wrongly 
declined his application. 
One of our investigators looked into things, but she didnt think Clydesdales decision was 
unreasonable. She said, in summary, that: 
While loans provided under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme were backed by a 
guarantee from the government, the decision to lend still rested with the lender. And, 
in making that decision, they were required to carry out certain checks, including 
fraud, anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks. 
When carrying out its checks, Clydesdale couldnt see that Mr S had been trading 
prior to 1 March 2020. Looking at the evidence provided, she could see that the 
business had been established prior to 1 March 2020 but not that it had been trading 
before that date as required. So she thought Clydesdales decision to decline the 
application was reasonable.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He made a number of points, saying in summary 
that:
While the bank could conduct certain checks, these werent allowed to extend to the 
eligibility criteria. Rather, it was for the applicant to self-declare they met the 
requirements and it was not for the bank to review further. This was, he said, in 
keeping with the special circumstances applicable to the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
He thought Clydesdale had created its own rules against which to assess 
applications, which wasnt allowed.
Clydesdale hadnt been entitled to audit his business in the way it had, but 
nevertheless he had provided sufficient evidence to show that his business was 
trading prior to 1 March 2020 as required. In particular, Mr S highlighted that his tax 
return showed income between 10 February and 5 April 2020  most of which 
derived from trading likely done before 1 March. He added that much of his trading 
had involved cash transactions, which were hard to evidence, but this wasnt a 
reason to decline his Bounce Back Loan application.
So Mr S asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute about the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan, which included 
 amongst other things  that the applicant was carrying on business on 1 March 2020.
Within Mr Ss submissions to us, he has essentially raised two key issues. Firstly, he doesnt 
believe that Clydesdale was entitled to conduct checks to verify whether his business met 
this criterion. And second, even if it was, he says that the evidence he provided was 
sufficient to demonstrate his eligibility.
Ive considered everything Mr S has said and provided to us. But, having done so, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
The banks entitlement to verify an applicants eligibility for a Bounce Back Loan
I understand from Mr Ss response that he accepts a lenders entitlement to conduct fraud, 
anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks, but he doesnt think that 
any of these extended to what Clydesdale did here in checking whether he met the Loan 
Schemes eligibility criteria. 
Mr S bases this view on the information available within the Frequently Asked Questions 
section of the British Business Banks website. But this isnt exhaustive or definitive  it is a 
summary of key information, primarily for the benefit of an applicant. So it doesnt include all 
the rules and requirements that applied to lenders. 
While the Bounce Back Loan application process did differ from that for a traditional loan, I 
dont agree that the rules of the Scheme prevented Clydesdale from conducting the checks it 
did here. Under any of the three checks set out above, I think it would be reasonable for the 
lender to verify the information given by an applicant about their business. Such information 
could inform a KYC check or be part of a lenders legitimate efforts to combat money 
laundering and fraud. 
Even if I were to accept Mr Ss suggestion that the verification of an applicants self-declared 
eligibility doesnt fall within the scope of these three necessary checks, I still dont think it 
was unreasonable for Clydesdale to take additional measures to prevent fraudulent 
applications. Such measures were not excluded by the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules.  
For these reasons, I think the verification of an applicants trading status was reasonable.
The banks assessment of Mr Ss trading status and eligibility
Having established that Clydesdale was entitled to carry out the checks that it did, Ive gone 
on to consider whether its decision to decline Mr Ss application was reasonable.Mr Ss business was established on 10 February 2020. However, it was not enough for the 
business simply to exist prior to 1 March 2020. Under the Loan Scheme rules, the applicant 
had to be trading before this date. Ive reviewed the evidence that Mr S provided Clydesdale 
about his trading, and which hes shared with us. Having done so, I think the banks decision 
was reasonable. I say this because:
While Mr S submitted a tax return that showed a turnover of £5,000 in the tax year 
6 April 2019 to 5 April 2020, it is not clear when this money was earned. It could well 
have been the result of trading activity prior to 1 March 2020, but it could just as 
easily have been earned after that date. Given Mr Ss business was only established 
on 10 February 2020, this makes it more likely that the income was earned after 
1 March 2020. Given the uncertainty, it was reasonable for Clydesdale to want 
further evidence to confirm the position either way. 
Mr S provided a copy of a bank statement of an account held with a different bank at 
the time in question. This was a personal account, rather than a business account. 
Statements for the relevant period (i.e. 10 February to 1 March 2020) dont clearly 
show any business transactions or anything that might readily be identified as trading 
activity. 
Mr S provided an invoice dated 13 February 2020 that seems to show the purchase 
of equipment used to set up an office, such as a desk, chair, filing cabinet and 
printer. While this would support the existence of a business, I dont think it 
evidences that Mr S was carrying out any trading of his own at this time. Rather, it 
indicates that he was in the process of setting up his business. Further, the bank 
couldnt verify this transaction on the account statement, as it was settled in cash. 
Mr S also provided some other invoices but these were issued in September and 
October 2020 and so dont inform the question of whether Mr S was trading prior to 1 
March 2020.
Ive taken into account everything Mr S has said and provided to us on this issue. I can fully 
appreciate why evidence of trading during the short period in question in his businesss 
infancy would be difficult to provide  especially where transactions were made in cash. But, 
given all of the above, I think that Clydesdale acted reasonably in considering there was 
insufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr S was trading prior to 1 March 2020 and that he 
had therefore failed to meet the eligibility criteria for a loan. It follows that I think it was 
reasonable for Clydesdale to decline Mr Ss Bounce Back Loan application.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman