DRN-4108309
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) didnt agree to extend the term of his 
interest only mortgage and change his mortgage to a repayment mortgage.
What happened
In 2016 Mr S took out a mortgage on an interest only basis over a 25-year term. The initial 
interest rate was fixed until 2022.
In May 2022 Mr S applied to extend the term of his mortgage (he wanted to extend it until he 
retired in 2046) and change the mortgage to a repayment mortgage. Before that hed had 
detailed discussions with BOS about his options.
BOS declined the application, saying the application didnt meet its lending criteria. It didnt 
think Mr S could afford to make the changes. Mr S complained about a number of issues. In 
summary he thought BOS had made the wrong decision. He didnt think it had assessed his 
application fairly and he complained about the time it took to get an appointment with it about 
his mortgage. He says that caused him to lose out on a low interest rate product.
Initially BOS said it hadnt done anything wrong. In February 2023 it said it would send him a 
cheque for £150 to reflect the delay Mr S experienced getting an appointment.
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint. He didnt think BOS had made a mistake in the 
way that it assessed Mr S application. He thought BOS had applied its lending criteria fairly 
and correctly. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld either. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he borrowed around £338,000 from Birmingham Midshires in 2006 and more 
money later on. He borrowed all the money on an interest only basis. In February 2022 he 
was told that Birmingham Midshires didnt offer new residential mortgages any more but he 
could get a new deal through BOS  part of the same banking group. Mr S couldnt get an 
appointment for 10 weeks but he says he was told not to worry - he was an existing banking 
group customer so he would be eligible for one of BOS preferential fixed interest rate 
products.
However, when Mr S circumstances were assessed he failed BOS affordability tests. Mr S 
is very unhappy about this. Amongst other things he says he earns considerably more than 
he did in 2006, has an excellent credit score and has never missed a mortgage payment.
I dont underestimate Mr S strength of feeling about this matter. However, my starting point 
is to say that its up to BOS to set its own lending policy. Its allowed to use its commercial 
judgement to put in place a policy in relation to mortgages which reflects its regulatory 
obligations, as well as its attitude to risk. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of BOS. In other words, I have to decide if 
BOS took into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before 
reaching its decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the 
decisions BOS made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to set lending policy for BOS.
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that BOS considered Mr S 
circumstances fairly and reasonably and acted in line with its lending policy.
I say that because:
BOS didnt think Mr S could afford to repay everything he owed if his mortgage was 
changed to a repayment mortgage. BOS notes refer to potential repayments of 
more than £7,800 a month if he were to change his mortgage to a four-year 
repayment mortgage  a figure far in excess of what Mr S said he could repay each 
month. 
BOS didnt think Mr S could afford to extend his mortgage for 24 years (until he 
retired) on repayment terms either, so it said it wouldnt be prepared to extend his 
mortgage on that basis. It discussed with him how much money it thought he could 
afford to borrow on the basis of his income at the time.
BOS also considered whether Mr S could extend his mortgage on an interest only 
basis mortgage for 24 years. It said it couldnt do this.
BOS said it wouldnt give Mr S a fixed interest rate product of 2.16% over five years 
because Mr S needed to have at least five years remaining on his mortgage term to 
do that, and he had around four years remaining on his mortgage at the time 
affordability was assessed. I can understand why BOS took that view. Amongst 
other things Mr S would have been required to pay a significant early repayment 
charge if he redeemed a five-year mortgage product after four years (at the end of 
his current term).
BOS wasnt willing to take the income Mr S received from his rental properties into 
account when it considered affordability. Doing so was against BOS lending policy 
(which I have seen). I appreciate Mr S frustration about that, but his rental 
properties were mortgaged (so the income from them wasnt guaranteed), so I 
understand why BOS wouldnt take the rental income from them into account. 
In May 2022 BOS offered Mr S a four-year mortgage: £350,592 on an interest only basis, 
and £3,284 on a repayment basis. The initial interest rate on both parts of the mortgage was 
fixed at 2.58% for two years. Mr S accepted that but in his submissions to me Mr S has said 
BOS should have done more to help him find a solution he wanted given his credit file and 
track record paying his mortgage.
I appreciate Mr S strength of feeling about this complaint but I can see that BOS has considered Mr S circumstances and possible options. So I dont think its fair to say that 
BOS hasnt worked with him as it should. Im afraid BOS wasnt required to give Mr S the 
mortgage he wanted if it didnt meet its lending criteria/and or it involved extending his 
mortgage in circumstances where it didnt think it was appropriate to do so.
Mr S complains that when the two year interest rate product he accepted around May 2022 
ends in 2024, the mortgage will revert to BOS standard variable rate (SVR). He says that 
by doing this BOS has effectively made him a mortgage prisoner and he worries about the 
prospect of him losing his home then.
I appreciate how worried Mr S is about what will happen when his two year interest rate 
product ends in 2024, but I dont think its reasonable for Mr S to say that BOS should 
effectively be required to give him a mortgage product against its lending policy. I think its 
important to say here is that all mortgage lenders are under an obligation to carry out an 
affordability assessment whenever an existing borrower requests a change to their mortgage 
 unless the change isnt a change that would have a material impact on affordability. The 
rules say that changing the term of a mortgage is a material change that impacts 
affordability. 
Lenders have a discretion to set aside the affordability assessment, provided the change is 
otherwise in the borrowers best interests. Mr S feels strongly that a mortgage extension 
would be in his best interests as he wants to continue to be able to live in the mortgaged 
property  his home. However, when considering Mr S best interests BOS was required to 
consider Mr S strategy to repay his interest only mortgage at the end of its term. Mr S didnt 
have a viable repayment strategy to repay his mortgage at the end of an extended term. 
Mr S had rental properties but he wanted to retain ownership of them if he could.
Mr S has said that BOS has treated him differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics. But I cant see any evidence to support that. As I said above I can see that 
BOS has considered Mr S circumstances in line with its lending policy.
Mr S also complained that he had to wait 10 weeks for an appointment to consider his 
mortgage. I appreciate how frustrating that was for him, but I can see that BOS has said it 
would send him a cheque for £150 to cover that. I think £150 is a fair and reasonable 
amount to offer as compensation for such a delay. 
Mr S discussed his mortgage with BOS in detail on 21 April 2022. Affordability was 
considered then too. Mr S says he was told on that day that he was eligible for a two year 
fixed interest rate product at 2.34%, but when he spoke to BOS again on 11 May he was told 
the interest rate had gone up from 2.34% to 2.58%. Mr S says he would have accepted the 
2.34% rate sooner had he known there was a risk of it increasing. 
Ive listened to a recording of the phone calls Mr S made on 21 April 2022. I can see that 
BOS advised him to discuss his options with an independent financial adviser so he could 
understand if any other lenders were willing to give a five year fixed rate mortgage product  
something BOS said it couldnt give him. Mr S did that after 21 April 2021. The adviser Mr S 
spoke to when the 2.34% interest rate product was discussed made it clear that the interest 
rates on the 2 year fixed interest rate products might change in the future. On another call 
Mr S and the adviser talked about the fact that the Bank of England base rate had increased 
steadily in the last three months. Mr S said he thought interest rates were only going to go 
up in the future and that was why he wanted to fix the interest rate on his mortgage for as 
long as possible. So Im satisfied that Mr S knew the risks of BOS interest rates increasing 
and that on 21 April he wasnt clear that he wanted to proceed with the 2.34% interest rate 
product. So Im satisfied that the 2.34% interest rate product wasnt guaranteed when Mr S 
spoke to BOS about it. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require BOS to compensate Mr S for that.
I appreciate that this decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr S, but for the reasons set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman