DRN-3031199
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2006. Mr F says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Barclayss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Barclays should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Barclayss subsequent offer to refund some of the cost 
of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Theres no documentation from the sale to refer to anymore, but given when it was, this isnt 
unusual. However, from Barclayss computerised records, it seems the PPI was sold to Mr F 
after hed applied for the credit card account and he was ringing up to activate his new card. 
Weve seen quite a few similar Barclays sales carried out in this way and so we now 
understand quite a bit about how the processes usually worked. I dont have an actual 
recording of the telephone call to refer to after so long, but I do know that call handlers were 
told to follow a script when selling this type of cover over the phone. And I think, if followed 
correctly, Mr Fs consent would have been needed for the PPI to be added. 
I also think the charges for PPI then probably started to appear on his account statements. If 
hed not given his consent, I think hed have been prompted to ask what the charges were 
for. Theres no evidence he did this, so I think its more likely he agreed to the PPI being 
added during that call.
Barclays probably provided an advised sale so it needed to make sure the PPI was suitable 
for Mr F. I think it was.
I say this because he was eligible for the policy. He didnt have any sick pay with his job and 
didnt appear to have many other means of paying off his card in the event of something 
unforeseen happening, such as him losing his job or being unable to work. Also, the policy 
he bought wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr F, for example he wasnt affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. If hed needed to claim, Mr Fs PPI could have 
paid off 10% of his credit card balance every month for up to a year. So I think the PPI was 
suitable for him. 
Its certainly possible the information Barclays gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found that he probably chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. I also dont think the policy was too dissimilar to what he 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was most likely given, even if 
Barclays could have done a better job at explaining things. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems and it looks like it was affordable for 
him  so it seems like it would have been useful for Mr F if something went wrong. In these 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Fs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclayss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?Barclays didnt tell Mr F about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mr F was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Fs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr F should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Barclays failed to tell Mr F about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr F wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a 
refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr F in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Fs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclayss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr F paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr F with the policy Ive concluded above 
he would still have taken out if Barclays had done everything it should have done  but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclayss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Fs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Mr F an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). From 
what I have seen, this payment to Mr F has already been made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman