DRN-4180177
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc has treated him unfairly when not applying a new interest 
rate to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr Ds mortgage with TSB has three sub accounts to it. In May 2022 the product rate for 
each sub account was due to expire and TSB sent Mr D a letter for each account to confirm 
the rate was due to end. If he didnt do anything else, each account would revert to the 
Homeowner Variable Rate (HVR) as detailed in the original mortgage offer.
Mr D wanted to move to a new fixed rate product of ten years. Mr D says he tried to call TSB 
to complete a rate swap but was unable to get through, so instead he attempted to do this 
online. The website had a number of issues and kept crashing and Mr D needed to revert to 
the phone to check his application had been completed correctly and received. He was told 
this was the case and so he believed hed completed a product switch for all products.
In November 2022, Mr D realised he hadnt switched the product on all three of his accounts, 
only one had been moved to a fixed rate product and two remained on the HVR which was 
increasing as the Bank of England (BoE) base rate was increasing.  He complained to TSB 
that it hadnt done the product transfer correctly. 
TSB looked at Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained that 
Mr D had completed the application for the product transfer without advice. It felt he should 
have been aware that his mortgage was made up of three sub accounts as the previous 
communication sent for the account had made this clear. Each mortgage sub account would 
have had separate statements issued in separate envelopes and so it felt Mr D should have 
been aware of this. It also said the product transfer mortgage offer which was generated 
after the application would have made it clear that Mr D had only transferred the rate on one 
of his three accounts.
It felt it was likely Mr D made a genuine error when he only moved one of his mortgage 
accounts to the new 10-year rate. But because it didnt think it had done anything wrong, it 
couldnt agree to change the other two sub accounts now retrospectively.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint and didnt think TSB needed to do anything else. 
Shed been able to listen to the call Mr D had with TSB when he called to check whether the 
application had gone through and she didnt think the adviser had done anything wrong 
when they said it had. She believed Mr D should have been aware that his mortgage was 
made up of three sub accounts. And the information provided after the transfer had been 
completed confirmed only one of these had been changed, so she didnt think TSB needed 
to do anything else now. Mr D had been given the information after he completed his 
application and this explained the details of the mortgage, including the different rates for 
two of the accounts.
Mr D didnt agree with the outcome and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know it will be disappointing for Mr D, but Ill explain why I dont think TSB has done anything 
wrong.
It is clear that Mr D wanted to move his mortgage to a new product in June and I believe he 
believed this had been done.  But it appears this was only completed for one of his three sub 
accounts and he left two mortgages on the HVR.  Mr D completed his application online and 
did so without advice. So Ive decided whether TSB provided him with enough information to 
allow him to be clear on the actions hes taken.
When Mr D called TSB to confirm if the application had been successful, the adviser said it 
had been. Mr D didnt explain he had three accounts or that he wanted to check if all had 
been transferred. I think it would have been helpful if the adviser highlighted this, but he did 
ask if Mr D needed anything else as the call was closing. And I have to think about all the 
information Mr D was provided and whether I think this gave him notice that only one of his 
mortgage accounts had been changed.
After the call Mr D was sent a confirmation letter which included a copy of the Product 
Transfer Mortgage Offer. The confirmation letter said the following in relation to this:
It is important that you read your offer as it includes personalised information and is an 
accurate reflection of the terms and costs of the mortgage you are interested in.
The product transfer offer letter set out in section 2 the features of the mortgage and showed 
Mr D had three sub accounts. The first two of these are shown to be on a variable rate and 
the third account has a fixed rate until 31 August 2032.
So following the phone call with TSB, I think Mr D was provided with information about his 
mortgage which demonstrated hed only completed a product transfer for his third sub 
account.  
Mr D said to our investigator that often he doesnt read the letters and while I understand this 
is his choice, it is relevant to this complaint.  
Ahead of his previous mortgage product coming to an end, TSB sent Mr D three product 
maturity letters. It sent three of these because Mr D has three sub accounts to his mortgage 
and each account received a letter. After he made the changes to one of these accounts, 
TSB provided confirmation of the changes and it is reasonable to expect that Mr D would 
check to ensure the details are correct. 
Overall, why I think it is clear Mr D may not have realised his mortgage consisted of three 
sub accounts when he made the changes to it, Im satisfied TSB hasnt made an error. It 
provided information to Mr D to allow him to understand if his mortgage (including all sub 
accounts) had been transferred to a new product. He didnt realise this wasnt the case until 
some months later and I appreciate by this point, the rates available were considerably 
different to what he was able to achieve in June. But Im not persuaded TSB has done 
anything wrong, or that it would be fair to ask it to do anything else now.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman