DRN-2757780
The complaint
Miss O complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly 
because she couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Miss O took five loans between December 2016 and August 2018. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived date repayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instatements
1 £300.00 03/10/2016 23/12/2016 3
2 £300.00 23/12/2016 07/04/2017 6
3 £900.00 11/07/2017 22/12/2017 6
4 £450.00 22/12/2017 31/07/2018 6
5 £1,000.00 03/08/2018 31/07/2019 12
One of our adjudicators initially looked into Miss Os complaint. She didnt think it was wrong
for Mr Lender to have granted loans 1 to 4. But the adjudicator also thought that loan 5 
shouldnt have been lent. She felt the pattern of lending indicated the loan was now 
unsustainable. 
Miss O appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators opinion and in summary it said;
Mr Lender carried out a proportionate check before it granted loan 5
no indication was given by the adjudicator whether the time Miss O spent in debt was 
a positive or negative indicator 
the loans Miss O took didnt always increase in value
the three-month break in lending between loans 2 and 3 shows that Miss O wasnt 
reliant on the last loan. 
As no agreement could be reached the case the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss O. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Miss O could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the new arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Os complaint.
Loans 1-4
It appears that both parties have accepted the outcome about loans 1-4. So, I no longer 
think there is an outstanding dispute about these loans. But for the avoidance of doubt, I 
agree with the adjudicators findings about these loans, that Mr Lender wasnt wrong to 
provide them. 
Instead this decision will focus on loan 5, as this is the loan where there is a dispute. But 
loans 1  4 did form part of a lending chain and Ive kept these loans in mind when thinking 
about loan 5. 
Loan 5
Although, Ive not considered the individual checks, I dont think Mr Lenders checks for this 
loan were proportionate. It was Miss Os largest loan to date to run for the longest term. It 
was also taken out shortly after loan 4 was repaid. So given all of these factors, while the 
checks that Mr Lender did showed this loan was likely to be affordable I ought to have gone further than just relying on Miss Os declared income and expenditure and the result of the 
credit credits. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Miss O, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Os case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Miss O was not managing to repay 
their loans sustainably. Miss O had taken out five loans in 19 months and Miss O had 
been indebted to Mr Lender for 19 of the previous 22 months. So Mr Lender ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Miss O was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that 
Miss Os indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss O was showing signs that she needed to borrow a new loan as soon as she 
was due to repay a previous one. When she applied for loan 5 in the same manner, 
this was now the third time she had requested a new loan on the same day or within 
a few days of a previous loan being repaid.  This continued need for credit ought to 
have alerted Mr Lender to consider whether the loans were sustainable.
Miss O had to defer contractual payments that were due on loans 3 and 4. Although, 
the deferrals are an option offered to Miss O the fact she deferred on her two 
pervious loans was, in my mind a sign that Miss O was likely having financial 
difficulties and loan 5 would be unsuitable. This is reinforced by the fact Miss O 
deferred payments on two occasions on loan 5. 
  
Miss O wasnt making any real sustained inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender. 
Loan 5 was taken out nearly two years after Miss Os first. And it was for a larger 
amount. Miss O had had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think that Miss O lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Os indebtedness by allowing
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Miss O borrowed was 
likely to have had negative implications on Miss Os ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market for these loans.
So, overall, having considered everything Im upholding Miss Os complaint in part as I think 
Mr Lender were wrong to approve loan 5.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved loan 5 as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending, Miss O may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Miss O may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss O in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss O would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Mr Lender was wrong to approve loan 5. 
Refund all interest, fees and charges Miss O paid towards loan 5
Add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payments to the date of
settlement*;
the number of loans taken means any information recorded about loan 5 is adverse. 
So all entries about loan 5 should be removed from Miss Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should
give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Os complaint in part.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right for Miss O as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman