DRN-3516953
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from 
his account.
What happened
Mr F says his mobile phone was stolen late on 30 April 2021. And that a third party was able 
to access his bank account using the HSBC mobile app and make three faster payments 
which came to £2,094.44.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that under the terms and conditions of 
the account Mr F was required to ensure that his security details were kept secure and not 
shared with anyone. There were multiple levels of security required to access mobile 
banking and the account had been accessed with these. There were no failed attempts to 
log on or attempts to reactivate his account. And it said it was entitled to hold Mr F 
responsible for these payments.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr F explained that his 
mobile phone had been stolen from his pocket during a night out and he had reported this to 
police. Mr F wasnt sure if his phone was then locked. He said it was secured with facial 
recognition and a passcode. Our investigator noted that not all of the money had been taken 
from the account. New payees needed to be established for the payments and this required 
Mr Fs security details on the app. Mr F had said these details werent written down. There 
were no failed log in attempts - or further attempts after these payments were made. Our 
investigator couldnt see how anyone else had obtained Mr Fs details and said it was most 
likely the payments were authorised.
Mr F, who is represented in this complaint, didnt agree. His representative said that he 
wanted the real time balance checked as pending payments had bounced. And that the last 
payment of £444.44 was an odd figure. Somehow the security had been bypassed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr F wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here may be whether Mr F acted with 
gross negligence in not keeping his details safe. Negligence is often referred to as a failure 
to exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable to conclude, the use of gross 
negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly 
beyond ordinary negligence.
It isnt in dispute that these payments were made after successful log ins to Mr Fs account 
online. HSBC has provided information showing the times of the log ins and payments and 
that the same device already registered to the account was used. Mr F logged in with a new 
device later that day before he contacted HSBC. Im satisfied that these payments were 
authenticated with Mr Fs details.
I wont be able to say exactly how that happened but Im thinking about what is most likely.
Mr F has given a plausible explanation of being outside a bar at about 23:15 on 30 April 
2021 with friends. And his phone being taken from his pocket. He said he initially gave chase 
to that person and contacted police about it and was told to and did make a report the 
following day.
What is less clear though is how an unknown third party in possession of his phone could 
have accessed it and made payments. I note that the first disputed payment for £150 took 
place at 00:23 after a series of successful logins from 23:53. And the other payments were 
£1,500 at 00:26 and £444.44 at 00:30. I dont now have real time information about the exact 
available balance in the account then including any pending payments. And I dont put any 
weight on there being any available funds remaining after these payments. I note the 
comment from the representative about the unusual amount of the final payment which may 
have been all available funds at that time.
To make those payments required new payees to be set up and Mr Fs security credentials. I 
noted that when he spoke to the HSBC fraud team the next day he said that all his social 
media accounts had been accessed too and his passwords changed. And he seemed to 
indicate he had been taunted online as someone who had left his passwords in his notes. In 
his later timeline of events for this service he says that the password for the HSBC app was 
that same password for some of his passwords on his iCloud password keychain which is 
protected by FaceID. But that there was no indication that this would be the same password 
as his online banking log in. And someone had got round his FaceID.
There is no evidence to support what he says about that. And so, I consider there are two 
most likely possibilities here. Either Mr F authorised the payments himself which could have 
involved him allowing someone else to have his security details. If as Mr Fs representative 
now insists his security details were sufficiently protected and so not recorded then thats the 
most likely explanation as our investigator found. Or the other most likely possibility is that 
these details were stored on his phone and a third party was able to access them. There 
were no failed log in attempts and based on what Mr F says other passwords seemed to 
have been easily discovered. So, Im afraid if I was to accept that he didnt make or allow the 
payments himself the conclusion Id need to come to here is that he didnt keep his security 
details safe as required and which was what HSBC thought. And Id then be thinking that he 
didnt exercise reasonable care with those details to such an extent that he was grossly 
negligent. Thats because he recorded them in a way that a third party was easily able to 
access and use. In either case I consider it reasonable for HSBC to hold him responsible for 
the payments.
I can appreciate as he says how important this money was for him and that he will be 
disappointed by my conclusions about his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman