DRN-1700355
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by a third party. But Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale and by 
extension this complaint. 
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to Allianz in my decision.
background
Mrs P took out a store card in 1992. At the same time she took out a PPI policy. This would 
have covered her if she was off work because of accident, sickness or if she lost her job. 
The policy would have cost 64p for every £100 of Mrs Ps outstanding monthly balance. On 
making a successful claim it would have paid out 15% of that balance each month until she 
returned to work or the balance was paid off.
In their most recent view, our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs P 
disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs P says she had no idea PPI had been included when she applied for the card in a store 
in 1992. So i looked into this.
I can't be sure what happened at the time when Mrs P completed an application form to 
have the store card and PPI. Her recollections are not detailed although this is 
understandable due to the many years that have passed since. I have been able to see the 
original application form and can see that a box has been ticked within a section for PPI, 
indicating that it was required. And PPI is explained as an optional feature on the form too.
So taking what i have seen in front of me into account, including what I have seen on the 
application form. I think its more likely Mrs P would have been given a choice. She could 
have declined it if she didnt want the cover, by not ticking the box.
I dont think Mrs P would have received advice about the PPI. So as Allianz didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs P it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it still needed to give Mrs P enough information to allow him to make an informed decision about whether or 
not to buy the policy. 
Its possible not all the information Allianz gave to Mrs P was as clear as it should have 
been. But even if she had been given clearer or better information I still think she would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this because Mrs P was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt seem she wouldve been 
affected by any of the exclusions or limitations of the policy which might have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a       
pre-existing medical condition. 
The policy wouldve paid out until Mrs Ps outstanding balance at the time of the claim was 
repaid, or until she went back to work. So I think the policy couldve been useful to her if 
things went wrong as it would have paid out for an extended period of time, more than any 
provisions she held at that time. 
I also think the cover was affordable. So I cant see that clearer information about the costs 
and benefit wouldve put Mrs P off taking the policy.
So overall I dont think better information wouldve changed Mrs Ps mind about the PPI. And 
I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman