DRN-4198666
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U, through their representative, complain that The Mortgage Business Plc
(TMB) has treated them unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage, during a period
when it was no longer offering new mortgages. Mr and Mrs U say that because of their
circumstances they were unable to re-mortgage elsewhere (or with TMB) and as such were
considered mortgage prisoners.
What happened
In around August 2008 Mr and Mrs U took a Buy to Let mortgage with TMB. The mortgage
was taken out on interest only terms over 17 years. Mr and Mrs U agreed the mortgage on a
variable interest rate that tracked 1.99% above the Bank of England base rate until
30 September 2011. At which point the mortgage reverted to TMBs SVR. This was the rate
that applied to the account until Mr and Mrs U redeemed their mortgage in January 2021.
TMB withdrew from the mortgage market in 2008, which meant that after their fixed interest
rate product ended in 2011, Mr and Mrs U were charged the SVR, and were unable to apply
for a new fixed rate product with TMB.
Since Mr and Mrs U took out the mortgage, the SVR has varied over the years as follows:
Effective Date Base Rate SVR Difference
August 2008 
mortgage start date5.00% 7.44% 2.44%
08/10/2008 4.50%
01/11/2008 6.94% 2.44%
06/11/2008 3.00%
01/12/2008 5.44% 2.44%
04/12/2008 2.00%
01/01/2009 4.84% 2.84%
08/01/2009 1.50% 4.84% 3.34%
05/02/2009 1.00% 4.84% 3.84%
05/03/2009 0.50% 4.84% 4.34%
30/09/2011 Tracker rate ends
01/11/2011 4.95% 4.45%
04/08/2016 0.25% 4.95% 4.70%
02/11/2017 0.50% 4.95% 4.45%
02/08/2018 0.75% 4.95% 4.20%
01/09/2018 5.20% 4.45%
11/03/2000 0.25%
19/03/2000 0.10%
01/04/2020 4.70% 4.60%
01/05/2020 4.55% 4.45%
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs Us representative raised this complaint with TMB on their
behalf. The complaint letter set out in summary:
TMB withdrew from the mortgage market in 2008 and stopped offering new interest
rate products. Because of the tighter rules around affordability checks introduced as
part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys review in 2014, Mr and Mrs U became
mortgage prisoners and were unable to move their mortgage to another lender, with
no choice but to remain on TMBs standard variable rate.
The standard variable rate (SVR) charged by TMB since Mr and Mrs Us mortgage
reverted was unfairly high, especially in these circumstances where Mr and Mrs U
and other customers were unable to re-mortgage with another lender.
The way TMBs margin between the SVR and the Bank of England base rate
increased over the years is unfair.
TMB's discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term that it could
not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, arbitrarily, or in a
way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do.
TMBs actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook whereby a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly. And a breach of MCOB 11.8.1 which provides that in
situations where a customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated
mortgage contract with their existing lender or a new mortgage lender, a lender
should not take advantage of the customers situation or treat them differently to
other customers with similar characteristics.
Mr and Mrs U seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what
they deem to be a reasonable rate.
TMB responded to the complaint on 2 November 2021. In summary it said it did not uphold
the complaint for the following reasons:
Part of the complaint about events that occurred more than six years before the
complaint was made had been brought too late.
The SVR is not a base rate tracker mortgage. The mortgage offer states the SVR is
variable (in the given circumstances) under the mortgage terms.
The Terms and Conditions set out when the SVR may be varied. When TMB
exercised its right to vary the SVR, it did so in accordance with the Terms and
Conditions.
The affordability requirements of the Mortgage Market Review Rules 2014 (MMR
Rules) and those introduced into MCOB do not apply to buy to let mortgages. As
such, any suggestion that Mr and Mrs U were mortgage prisoners is not valid
because a buy to let customer cant be a mortgage prisoner.
TMB was entitled to make a commercial decision in 2008 to stop accepting any new
business applications. Its customers were made aware of such decision by letter in or
around August 2008. As was the case in October 2011, when Mr and Mrs U were
notified of an increase to the SVR due to changes in regulation regarding capital
reserves.If Mr and Mrs U were unhappy with the interest rate being charged on their mortgage
by TMB they were free to re-mortgage elsewhere. Over the years TMB has, in
several ways informed Mr and Mrs U of the options available to them if they wished
to explore re-mortgaging with a different lender including another company within the
Lloyds Banking Group. Its not clear what steps, if any, Mr and Mrs U took at the end
of the tracker rate period to review any options to re-mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Us representative referred this complaint to our service on 4 April 2022.
Our investigator issued his opinion on the limitations to our jurisdiction and what this meant
for Mr and Mrs U. In summary, he said:
The complaint was raised on 2 November 2021, so he concluded that the complaint
about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years prior to this,
had been raised in time. Which would be from 2 November 2015 onward. So, he
was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 2 November
2015 onward were fair and reasonable.
That under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than
six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought within
three years from the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have
become aware, that they had cause for complaint. The investigator explained why
he thought Mr and Mrs U ought reasonably to have been aware of their cause for
complaint more than three years before making their complaint. So, he didnt think
this part of the rule gave them any more time to complain.
When considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 2 November 2015
onward, he would need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period he can look at is fair.
He would also need to consider whether the variation clause is itself an unfair term 
as a matter of law. He concluded both of these things were part of all the
circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP rules and
are relevant to whether the interest charged from 2 November 2015 onward is fair
and reasonable.
In the event he recommends any redress, he would only be able to award for the
period that is in scope of this complaint  2 November 2015 onward.
Mr and Mrs U accepted our investigators findings on our jurisdiction. TMB also hasnt
objected to our service continuing with our investigation of the complaint on this basis. As
such our investigator subsequently issued his opinion, not upholding the merits of
Mr and Mrs Us complaint. In summary he said:
Mr and Mrs Us mortgage contract did not commit to track the base rate, they were
made sufficiently aware of the relevant terms and TMB has sought to charge interest
in accordance with those terms.
TMB was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC. So,
Mr and Mrs U would not have had to pay a charge to end their contract with TMB
should they have chosen to switch to another lender. TMB cannot be held
responsible for any personal factors or circumstances that meant Mr and Mrs U didnt
meet the tighter affordability rules to qualify for a re-mortgage with a different lender.
The investigator set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr and Mrs Uexperienced because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate.
And the need to consider whether TMB had exercised the terms fairly. He was not
persuaded TMB varied the rate unfairly.
The difference between the SVR and the base rate largely increased between 2008
and 2011. The investigator set out that this was a time of significant change in the
wider market as a result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of
businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.
TMB provided information to show that its cost of funds did not reduce in line with
the base rate during this period.
For the remainder of the period (until the point this complaint was made), the only
changes TMB made to the SVR were made soon after changes were made to
the base rate, and by the same amount.
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that TMB has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably, or that Mr and Mrs U have overpaid interest.
The interest rate applied to this mortgage over the term has remained generally in
line with the SVRs of other similar lenders across the market. The rate Mr and Mrs U
paid was not an obvious outlier and was not manifestly excessive.
Mr and Mrs Us representative responded to say that without full sight of the evidence
provided by TMB to support its decision making over the years, it was not able to accept the
opinion reached and that the variations over the years were fair and justified.
Our investigator expanded on the reasoning behind his outcome and provided more specific
detail around TMBs cost of funding for the period in question but explained why he was not
able to share the information provided to our service in confidence by TMB.
Mr and Mrs Us representative made a direct request to TMB to ask it shares a copy of the
information provided to our service. Following TMBs refusal to extend this information
outside of our service, the representative asked for the case to be decided by an
ombudsman.
The investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final
decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they would 
like the ombudsman to consider by 14 March 2023.
Mr and Mrs U representative said they disagreed with the investigators opinion for the
following reasons:
That TMBs interest rates were fair (at any time) and justified by factors such as
capital requirements and costs of funding;
When assessing fairness of the rate charged there must be a balance between the
commercial interests of TMB and their regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly,
especially in situations where their customers circumstances mean theyre unable to
move to a different lender.
They disagree with the conclusion that they were not prevented from re-mortgaging
elsewhere with a different lender (i.e. the conclusion that they were not mortgage
prisoners). There were other factors, aside from the ERC referred to by theinvestigator, that prevented them from refinancing including the FCA affordability
criteria. This ought to be a consideration when deciding the fairness of the interest
rate charged by TMB.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, the case was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2023 and an extract of my provisional findings is 
below.
Provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into
account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my
decision.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be
disappointing for Mr and Mrs U. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
I have explained the position relating to TMBs objection to our service considering
Mr and Mrs Us complaint under the DISP rules relating to time limits for bringing complaints.
Ive also set out our investigators findings in relation to this.
Neither TMB or Mr and Mrs U have sought to challenge the findings of the investigator on
this point. But for completeness, I can confirm that I largely agree with the investigators
findings when considering our jurisdiction. The approach the investigator took
reflects the decision of the High Court in an application for judicial review of another
ombudsmans decision in a similar case. As such I am satisfied:
I do have the power to consider a complaint about the amount and fairness of the
interest Mr and Mrs U have been charged, but only from 7 September 2015 onwards
 the complaint about charges before that date are out of time. I note the investigator
gave a date of 2 November 2015, but I have seen evidence of this complaint first
being raised sooner in September 2021; and
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charges that are in time, it is
necessary for me to take into account the historic changes to TMBs SVR, since
the SVR charged during the period that is in time is the result not only of decisions
TMB made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. This
includes considering whether the rate charged derived from earlier reliance on
an unfair term or for reasons other than those allowed by the contract. Thats
because each time TMB charges interest, it must have a fair and lawful basis for
doing so.
For similar reasons, Im satisfied our service only has the power to consider
Mr and Mrs Us complaint about their ability to obtain access a new interest rate with
TMB in the last six years leading up to their complaint being made  so from7 September 2015 onwards. Mr and Mrs U say theyre unhappy about being on the
SVR as opposed to a fixed rate over the years. This is something they would have
known at the time over the years since 2008 and as such Mr and Mrs U ought
reasonably to have been aware of their cause for complaint more than three years
before making their complaint. So, I didnt think this part of the rule gives them any
more time to complain.
Access to interest rates
As explained, our service can only consider Mr and Mrs Us complaint about their access to
interest rates from 7 September 2015 onwards. In the event I recommend any redress, I
would only be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint. That said, when
considering this part of the complaint, I think its necessary for me to set out the background
to TMBs lending structure.
TMB are a closed book lender within the Lloyds Banking Group. They stopped offering new
mortgage products to their customers in 2008. After this date and after any customers fixed
term products ended all TMB customers were charged the same SVR rate. TMB wrote to
Mr and Mrs U in 2008 to inform them that no fixed interest rate products would be offered in
the future. This letter stated:
If you wish to make any changes to your mortgage in the future, you will be able to discuss
those changes with one of our mortgage advisersThey may be able to discuss a
Birmingham Midshires mortgage with you if appropriate (and if you are eligible).
However, since October 2011, Birmingham Midshires have no longer offered mortgage
products direct to customers. This includes servicing existing customers with product
transfers, further advances or mainstream mortgages.
TMB wrote to Mr and Mrs U again in 2011, as re-mortgaging directly to Birmingham
Midshires was no longer an option they stated in this letter:
TMB no longer accepts new business. If you want to discuss a new mortgage, increasing
your existing borrowing, changing your rate or moving home, you should talk to an
Independent Financial Adviser. They will be able to provide information on mortgage
products and advise you on the most suitable course of action. Details of local Independent
Financial Advisers can be found on the website www.unbiased.co.uk
After receiving this letter TMB customers should have been aware that if they wanted a new
interest rate product, they would have to apply for a new mortgage with another mortgage
provider.
TMB has told us that In April 2014 it decided to offer their customers a specialist
re-mortgage to Bank of Scotland, subject to eligibility. This meant that after this date TMB
customers could have applied for a new fixed interest rate product by re-mortgaging to
Bank of Scotland. However, I cant see TMB made Mr and Mrs U aware of this
re-mortgaging option at the time.
Considering the letter sent by TMB in 2011 informed Mr and Mrs U that there were no
options available to them in regard to new fixed interest rate products, I wouldnt have
expected them to continue asking for a new interest rate product beyond this. I think it was
reasonable for them to assume no new interest rates were available, based on the wording
in this 2011 letter.
That said, TMB says that in April 2015 Mr and Mrs U did make contact to ask if they couldmake changes to the mortgage. TMB has provided evidence that shows in response to their
query, it sent a letter to Mr and Mrs U that referred them to its specialist re-mortgage team.
But theres no evidence Mr and Mrs U contacted that team to discuss what options were
available to them.
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs U contacted TMB again asking if TMB had any fixed rate or other
options for the future. TMB wrote to Mr and Mrs U explaining it was not accepting any new
applications, but they could however call to discuss re-mortgaging to another company
within the Lloyds Banking Group.
Upon receiving information from TMB about the possible re-mortgage options available to
Mr and Mrs U, Ive seen no evidence to suggest they took further steps to explore their
options or to submit an application for a new mortgage within the Lloyds Banking Group.
Mr and Mrs U subsequently redeemed their mortgage with TMB in January 2021 and TMB
has suggested their information shows the property is now mortgage free.
As such Ive thought about what, if any, impact TMBs actions have had on Mr and Mrs U in
the circumstances of this case.
In 2019 TMB did change the wording on their annual statements, which invited customers to
call them to discuss the interest rate being charged on the account. Customers who called
this number may be offered a re-mortgage to Bank of Scotland, subject to eligibility. TMB
has not explained why they made this change in 2019 and not in 2014 when the internal
re-mortgaging option first become available.
After considering all the evidence provided, I believe TMB should have informed
Mr and Mrs U in April 2014 of the possibility of applying for a new interest rate product using
the internal re-mortgaging process, or at the very least invited them to call TMB to discuss
the interest rate, as they did do as part of their 2019 statements.
That said, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs U would have acted differently in the
circumstances of this case. I say this because whilst TMB ought to have given Mr and Mrs U
better information in 2014, for reasons Ive explained, they knew about the internal re-
mortgage process to Bank of Scotland from 2015 but they chose not to take any further
action in the circumstances. As such I cant reasonably hold TMB responsible for the
decision Mr and Mrs U made to remain on the SVR until 2021 when they redeemed their
mortgage.
That leads me to consider the fairness of the interest charged on Mr and Mrs Us mortgage.
I must consider whether from 7 September 2015 onwards, Mr and Mrs U paid an unfairly
high rate of interest. To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set
out the relevant terms themselves:
Section four of the mortgage offer issued to Mr and Mrs U in August 2008 set out that their
three-year tracker rate would operate as follows:
 a variable rate which is 1.99% above the Bank of England base rate, currently 5.00%,
which ends on 30/09/2011, to give a current rate payable of 6.99%. This rate will be adjusted
within 30 days of a change to the Bank of England base rate.
Your loan reverts to TMB standard variable rate, currently 7.440%, after 30/09/2011 until the
end of the term.TMB standard variable rate is the base rate which applies to this mortgage.
The availability of the mortgage product chosen is based on the amount of loan as a
percentage of the value of the property. Changes to the loan amount or property value could
alter the availability of this product. If this is the case, please ask for a revised offer.
The tracker base rate is linked to the Bank of England base rate and can go up or down. It is
currently 5.00% a year. Further information about how we manage our tracker base rate can
be found in our Mortgage Conditions.
Some of the information about the mortgage was set out in a separate document to the
mortgage offer, titled Mortgage Conditions 2007:
6. The interest we charge
6.7 We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any timeWe can change
the interest rate for any of the following reasons:
(a) To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our 
customers with mortgages of residential property.
(b) (To reflect changes in rates of interest charged by other major lenders (including 
the terms on which mortgages are offered by them).
(c) To reflect: changes to the law or codes of practice, a decision or recommendation
made by, or a requirement of, a court, ombudsman, regulator or similar body or 
an undertaking given to the Financial Services Authority.
(d) To reflect changes to the costs we incur in looking after the mortgage account
because of:
the steps we have taken to modernise or improve our systems for managing
mortgage accounts generally; or
reasons outside our control.
(e) To reflect changes to the accounting period.
(f) Because:
we are going to take over, take control of or acquire the business of another
bank or organisation offering similar services;
we are going to be taken over or our business is acquired by another bank or
organisation offering similar services; or
any of these things has happened, and the change will make sure that our
customers and the customers of the other bank or organisation are treated in
a similar way if they are in similar categories.
(g) Because you have changed the way you use the property (for example from 
residential to commercial use) and we need to change the interest rate to bring it 
into line with the rate we would charge:on any money lent to a new borrower on the security of a property used in that 
way; or
as a condition of giving our permission under an existing mortgage for a
property to be used in that way.
Where we refer to changes in the above list, we mean changes we know will happen or we
reasonably believe will happen, or changes which have already taken place.
6.8 We can also change the interest rate for any other valid reason.
The mortgage Terms and Conditions set out that when the initial tracker rate expired in
2011, the mortgage would revert to the lenders SVR and that the SVR could go up as well
as down. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that TMB was obligated,
contractually or otherwise, to have its SVR track the base rate. Theres also nothing in the
Terms and Conditions that entitled Mr and Mrs U to a new interest rate. To that extent, the
mortgage has operated as it should.
That said, our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. That includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and
the extent to which, the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for
Mr and Mrs U. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to
uphold this case.
When considering everything Im satisfied TMB has operated withing the relevant terms
and conditions, Ill explain why.
Has TMB exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Us mortgage since 7 September 2015, why its
necessary for me to consider historic changes to TMBs SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes TMB made to the SVR
since Mr and Mrs U took their mortgage. Having done so, I am not persuaded that anything
TMB has done in varying the rate has led to Mr and Mrs U being treated unfairly. I have set
out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence TMB
has been able to provide in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to Mr and Mrs U.
Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is
disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate
to accept the information and evidence TMB has provided in confidence, subject to the
summary of it I have set out in this decision.
TMB has not been able to provide extensive information for the period before 2011. So, it is
possible that there is evidence relevant to its decision making at that time that is no longer in
existence. While this is not surprising given that the events in question took place over
twelve years ago, it is a relevant consideration, and Ive also taken into account the
difficulties of reviewing a complex decision so long after the events.
While this limits the depths to which I can assess TMBs decisions to, or not to, vary its SVR
prior to 2011, it has been able to give us extracts of information, relevant to that period. I
have looked at that alongside what I understand about what was happening to the wider
market at the time, and I have consulted analysis from other sources such as theBank of England and the FCA.
Between 2006 (when Mr and Mrs U took out their mortgage) and September 2011 when
their initial tracker period ended, the difference between the Bank of England base rate and
the SVR increased from 2.44% to 4.34%. Whilst the SVR did reduce during this period, it
didnt reduce by the same proportion as the reduction in the base rate.
Ive already set out that Mr and Mrs Us mortgage was not a lifetime tracker mortgage and
instead, was only set to track the base rate for the initial three-year period. So TMB was not
contractually obligated to track the base rate for the remainder of the mortgage term. Nor is it
the case that Mr and Mrs Us mortgage had a cap preventing TMBs SVR from increasing
beyond a certain margin above base rate. So, there was nothing in the contract that
expressly prohibited TMB from setting the SVR at a level whereby the margin between the
SVR and base rate would change. But that doesnt mean that TMB could set the SVR at
whatever level it chose. The term enabling TMB to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to
prevent businesses taking advantage of customers), and TMB had to ensure that in
varying the SVR it only did so for one of the reasons set out in the contract.
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including
TMB, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the
market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by both
the Bank of England1 and the FCA2 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly
during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their
prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors and that are not directly
linked to base rate.
TMB has told us it experienced unusual volatility in its long-term funding costs at this time
and it has been able to show the resulting impact on its overall margins as well as illustrating
the spread between its cost of funding and the reductions in base rate. To a large extent, its
funding was based on LIBOR rather than base rate.
It is accepted that during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between
LIBOR and base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate
reductions to LIBOR or to TMBs cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale
funding became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default.
While the evidence provided by both parties is limited, I have not seen any evidence to
suggest the changes TMB made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. And Im further satisfied
that, albeit limited, the evidence TMB has been able to provide for this period is corroborated
by evidence of wider market conditions at the time.
While I note and have considered the evidence relied on by Mr and Mrs Us representative,
I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided by TMB on the
impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, as I have said above,
I have considered other sources such as the Bank of England that leads me to a different
conclusion from Mr and Mrs Us representative.
In 2011, TMB increased its SVR by 0.11% outside of any changes to base rate. It has told
1 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what
determines them and why do they matter?
2 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10us this was due to an increase in the cost of holding equity as per its requirements under
Basel II and has provided evidence of these increases3. It has also shown that its margins
overall had reduced to below the levels they were before the financial crisis. To meet these
increased costs, driven in part by changes to regulatory requirements, it chose to increase
its SVR. I am satisfied the terms provide for this scenario and that TMB has evidenced it
exercised its contractual right to vary the SVR fairly.
Following the change in 2011, Mr and Mrs Us SVR remained static at 4.95% until
September 2018. The Bank of England base rate did reduce in 2016 before subsequently
increasing in 2017, but TMB was not obligated to track base rate, or reduce its SVR solely
because the base rate had reduced. And as I have set out above, TMBs cost of funding was
multi-faceted, with the base rate being only one of a number of influencing factors.
For the remainder of the period (until the point this complaint was made), the changes TMB
made to the SVR were largely made soon after changes were made to the base rate, and by
the same amount. Whilst I do note that the full base rate reductions from March 2020 werent
passed in the subsequent month, I have already explained that TMB was not contractually
obligated to track the base rate when setting its SVR. And in any event TBM did pass on the
benefit of the second reduction in May 2020 after conducting a further review of the SVR
following what was the unordinary situation of two base rate reductions in the same month.
So to conclude, I am not persuaded that TMB operated the terms in an unfair manner when
setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Us mortgage. I dont think
there is any basis to say that it somehow contributed to Mr and Mrs U being charged an
unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage during the period I can consider, and Ive seen
no evidence to say that the interest they were charged during that period was unfair for any
other reason.
I have considered the representatives point that TMB has breached Principle 6 of the
FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons set
out above, Im not persuaded it has. Its also worth noting that as this was an unregulated by
to let mortgage the MCOB rules would not apply.
Finally, I note that at an earlier stage in the Ombudsman Services consideration of this
complaint, the representative argued that TMB had breached what it says was an implied
term, not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or
irrationally. For the reasons set out above, if there was such a duty in the present case, Im
satisfied that TMB did not breach it since it approached the question of varying the SVR in
line with the terms of the contract.
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint against
The Mortgage Business Plc.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision.
3 The regulatory framework which covers capital requirements for banks is the Basel Accords, 
published by the Basel Committee on banking Supervision. In June 2004, the original Basel I capital 
measurement system was replaced by a significantly more complex capital adequacy framework, 
known as Basel II. The Basel II requirements started to be implemented across Europe from 2008.I note that neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further evidence, 
since I issued my provisional decision. Ive carefully considered again what I said.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against The Mortgage Business Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman