DRN-4131312
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to settle a 
claim under her car insurance policy as a fault claim. 
What happened
Miss B was involved in an incident with another vehicle and a claim was made under her car 
insurance policy with Advantage. Advantage decided to settle the claim as a fault claim.
Miss B didnt agree with Advantages decision and so she complained. But Advantage didnt 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. So Miss B brought her complaint to us. 
Our Investigator thought Advantage had reached its decision to settle the claim in a 
reasonable way, based on the available evidence from both parties. So he didnt recommend 
Advantage do any more. 
Miss B didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can decide whether an 
insurer has reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Miss Bs policy with Advantage has a very common term which allows Advantage to settle a 
claim in Miss Bs name. This means Advantage might reach a decision that Miss B doesnt 
agree with, but the policy allows it. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an 
insurer can show it treated its customer fairly when applying it. 
The circumstances are that Miss B says she was a passenger with a named driver under her 
policy who was driving when the incident happened. She says there was a queue of traffic 
and so the named driver decided to carry out a manoeuvre to turn around and drive in the 
opposite direction from the queue. While doing so, another vehicle from behind in the queue 
was carrying out a similar manoeuvre. Miss B says the third party driver collided into her car 
and caused the incident. 
Miss B provided details of two witnesses to support her account. But when Advantage made 
contact with the witnesses, one denied being there and the other denied witnessing the 
incident. 
The third party drivers insurer provided an independent witness statement. Their account 
was consistent with the third party drivers account of what happened. Their witness said the 
third party driver was stationary at the time when Miss Bs named driver collided into the 
third party drivers car. 
According to the accident report form submitted by Miss B, there was no CCTV available - 
and so based on the lack of independent witnesses for Miss Bs named driver - and the 
independent witness statement from the third party drivers insurer - Advantage decided to 
settle the claim as a fault claim. It said it did this based on what it believed a Judge would 
most likely decide, should the matter go to court. 
Miss B believes Advantage reached its decision because she didnt renew her policy with it. 
Ive seen nothing to show this to be the reason. An insurer is entitled to reach a decision, 
based on its experience of handling claims and how likely its chances are of success if it 
defends a claim which proceeds to court. There is a risk of substantial costs in proceeding to 
court - and so an insurer is reasonably entitled to decide to settle a claim on the best terms 
possible on review of the evidence available. 
In this case, I think Advantage has properly investigated the claim and reasonably shown 
why it reached the decision it did. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B. But this means Im not 
asking Advantage to change how it has recorded and settled the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman