DRN-4342371
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as P, is unhappy with several aspects of the service it
received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, including surrounding the defaulting of its accounts.
Ps complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr W.
What happened
P took a loan from Barclays in 2018 and was making additional payments towards it beyond
the monthly payments that were contractually required. Mr W felt this meant that P was in
credit on the loan, but when P didnt make some of the monthly payments, it received letters
from Barclays which said that the loan was in arrears.
Mr W was confused by the letters. He tried to contact Barclays by telephone to discuss the
matter but found that his calls often went unanswered and that when he was able to speak
with Barclays staff, no one knew which department he needed to speak with, leading to him
being passed around departments on several occasions.
Mr W then received a letter from Barclays informing him that Ps loan had been defaulted for
non-payment of account arrears  even though Mr W felt P was still in credit on the loan
because of the overpayments it had made. And, because Barclays defaulted the loan, they
also issued a demand for full repayment of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) that P had taken,
and also withdrew Ps overdraft facility from its business current account (BCA), leaving P
in an overdrawn position without an agreed overdraft and so unable to meet its financial
commitments. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Ps behalf.
Barclays looked at Ps complaint. But they noted that if overpayments are made to a loan,
the ongoing contractual monthly payments always remain due. And so, they didnt feel theyd
acted unfairly by following the account arrears process. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Barclays
response, so he referred Ps complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W
remained dissatisfied, so that matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 August 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by addressing a wider point that Mr W has made in his complaint regarding
what he perceives as a gradual decline in the standard of service that P received from
Barclays during the time that P has held a business relationship with them. Mr W points to
the closure of Barclays branches local to P and changes with how Barclays handle Ps
business relationship and interact with Mr W.
I can appreciate how Mr W might feel dissatisfied at the changes described above. But if he
had become dissatisfied with the service that P was receiving from Barclays, he was free to
move Ps banking relationship to another provider. Accordingly, I feel that by maintaining Ps
business relationship with Barclays, Mr W was tacitly accepting the branch closures and
changes to service implemented by Barclays, about which he now complains.
Mr W has addressed this point in his correspondence with this service and has said that
changing banks isnt easy, especially when assets are frozen. But the changes that Mr W is
unhappy with took place before the defaulting of Ps accounts, at times when none of Ps
accounts were restricted. And it remains my position that if Mr W kept Ps accounts with
Barclays, rather than taking the action necessary to change banking provider, then he was
accepting the branch closures and changes in service that Barclays had made.
Regarding the defaulting of Ps loan, Mr W has explained that because P made several
overpayments to the loan that P was several months in credit on the loan at the time that
Barclays deemed it to be in arrears. And Mr W has questioned how Ps loan can be
defaulted for non-payment when the account is several months in credit.
Unfortunately, Mr Ws statement that P was in credit on the loan account because of prior
overpayments is based on a misunderstanding of the terms of the loan agreement  which
include the following clauses:
6.4: Any payment made in excess of your contractual monthly payment will be
applied firstly towards any payment due and payable under the Agreement and any
remainder shall be treated as partial early settlement, and in each case will not
contribute to your next contractual monthly payment (which will still remain due on
your Contractual Repayment Date).
7.2: 'If you make any payment to us other than your contractual monthly payment
when due or if you make your contractual monthly before the 7 day period
immediately before your Contractual Repayment Date, such payment will not
contribute to the contractual monthly payment which will still remain payable on your
Contractual Repayment Date.
The terms of the loan agreement quoted above explain that if overpayments are made, the
loan will not be in credit and the ongoing contractual monthly payments to the loan must still
be made each month. Instead, any overpayments that are made effectively reduce the term
of the loan - but a contractual payment towards the loan is still required each month
regardless of any overpayments made and any consequential shortening of the term.
It's for Barclays to set the terms of a loan theyre willing to offer. And P accepted Barclays
terms when it accepted the loan. As such, Im satisfied that it wasnt the case that Ps loan
was ever in credit, as Mr W believed, and I feel that Mr Ws belief in this regard was based
on an incorrect understanding of the terms of the loan. Consequently, this means that Im
satisfied that Barclays were correct, and werent acting unfairly, when they considered the
loan to be in arrears when P missed some of the monthly payments towards it  regardless
of the overpayments towards the loan that P had previously made.
I can appreciate how, from Mr Ws perspective, it may seem unfair that Barclays would
consider the loan to be in arrears on the basis Ive described above, given that some of the
overpayments that P made towards the loan were significant.
But its notable that Mr W cancelled Ps direct debit that had previously been in place tomake the contractual monthly loan payments in June 2020, and that P made manual
monthly payments towards the loan from that point onwards. And by electing to make the
loan payments manually, I feel it was Mr Ws responsibility to have understood the terms of
the loan regarding loan payments  including that at least the minimum contractual payment
amount needed to be made each month.
Barclays sent missed payment letters to P about the arrears on the loan account in
November and December 2021 and in January and February 2022, and then sent a formal
demand for full repayment of the balance outstanding on the loan on 29 March 2022. And
Im satisfied that this is in alignment with guidance issued by the Information Commissioners
Office regarding the defaulting of accounts, which includes that a formal demand should
generally be issued when an account has been in arrears for longer than three months but
before an account has been in arrears for six months.
Barclays have explained that its their process that, in instances where a business customer
has several different accounts  as P did here  that when an account is defaulted, they also
default or withdraw any other credit facilities that might be present. And it was for this
reason, following the defaulting of the loan for non-payment, that Barclays withdrew the
credit facility from Ps overdraft and issued a formal demand for full repayment of Ps BBL.
Again, its for Barclays to set their own policies and processes here, and it seems clear that
Barclays followed their process correctly. However, it doesnt follow that because a process
has been followed correctly that the process has resulted in a fair outcome. And so, Ive
considered whether I feel it was fair for Barclays to withdraw Ps overdraft facility and to
default its BBL as Barclays did.
Regarding the withdrawal of the overdraft facility from the BCA, I feel it was fair for Barclays
to take this step in March 2022. This is because P had displayed a reduced capacity to make
payments towards its existing credit by not making the contractual monthly payments
towards the loan from October 2021 onwards  either by not making any payment in a
particular month or by making a monthly manual payment which was less than the
contractual amount required. As such, I feel it was reasonable for Barclays to have had
concerns about continuing to provide P with an overdraft facility, and to have withdrawn that
facility accordingly.
However, I dont feel that it was fair for Barclays to have issued a formal demand to P
regarding its BBL at that time. This is because P wasnt behind on its payments for the BBL
and was in the middle of an agreed payment deferral plan whereby it wasnt required to
resume making payments towards the BBL until June 2022. And whereas an overdraft is an
instance of revolving credit, where the facility holder can take further credit up to the agreed
overdraft limit, the BBL was fixed credit, whereby P had already received the full credit
available to it, such that there was no risk of P taking any further credit on the BBL.
Additionally, its notable that following the removal of Ps overdraft facility in March 2022, P
was able to make payments to bring the BCA into a position of credit and was able to
resume using the account for business purposes within a few weeks  by early April 2022.
As such, I feel its both plausible and likely that P would have been able to make the BBL
payments required of it after the payment deferral period ended in June 2022.
It also must be remembered that the purpose of the BBL scheme was to help businesses
such as P negotiate the difficult financial circumstances surrounding the emergence of the
Covid-19 pandemic without falling into debt and incurring adverse credit file reporting. So, it
doesnt seem fair to me that Barclays would default Ps BBL at a time when the BBL wasnt
in arrears and when I dont feel that it can reasonably be said that P was highly likely to have
missed payments on its BBL in the immediate future  especially given that the monthlypayments for the BBL were £258.33 per month, which feels reasonably affordable for P.
This isnt to say that I would consider the cross-defaulting of all loans such as a BBL to be
unfair, and I can understand why banks such as Barclays would have policies in place
regarding cross-defaulting loan accounts. But it is to say that it the circumstances specific
and unique to this complaint, that I dont feel it was fair for Barclays to have defaulted Ps
BBL in this instance.
These circumstances include that the BBL wasnt in arrears, that I dont feel that P was likely
to miss future payments on the BBL, that there was no risk of P taking any further credit on
the BBL, and that one of the purposes of the BBL scheme was to enable small businesses
such as P to avoid adverse credit file reporting where possible.
Additionally, I feel it should fairly be recognised that P may only have fallen into arrears on
its business loan because Mr W misunderstood the payment terms of that loan. And I also
feel that if Mr W had kept the overpayment amounts back instead of paying them, its
possible that P would have had the money available to it to make the contractual monthly
payments due on the loan at the time that it fell into arrears.
Furthermore, its notable that the balance outstanding on the business loan at the time it was
defaulted by Barclays was approximately £990, whereas the balance outstanding on the
BBL  on which P wasnt in any arrears  was over £14,500. And it doesnt feel fair to me
that Barclays would cross default such a large outstanding balance in the unique and
specific circumstances of this complaint  as Ive described them above.
Accordingly, my provisional instructions to Barclays are that they must reinstate Ps BBL as it
was at the time of the default. This includes any time that remained on the payment deferral
plan that P was benefiting from, as well as any potential that P may have had to request
further payment deferral options. In short, Barclays must reinstate the BBL as if it had never
been defaulted, and must remove all adverse credit file reporting incurred by P resulting from
the defaulting of the BBL.
Mr W is also unhappy with the service he received from Barclays when he contacted them to
discuss his accounts, and notes that he made verbal agreements with Barclays in October
2021 and February 2022 which werent recorded or implemented by Barclays.
But Barclays dont have any record of the calls or agreements which Mr W refers to. And
after a phone call that took place in October 2021, Barclays dont have record of speaking
with Mr W again until April 2022. Additionally, Mr W hasnt provided any evidence of these
calls or any similar communication with Barclays himself. As such, I dont feel that I can
reasonably concur with this aspect of Ps complaint.
Finally, Mr W has commented on how Barclays actions have affected him personally.
However, while I sympathise with Mr W in this regard, this complaint is brought in the name
of P as a limited company, and so Im unable to consider any personal impact on Mr W.
All of which means that, while I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Ps favour, Ill
only be doing so in relation to the BBL, which I feel was unfairly defaulted by Barclays.
Barclays objected to my provisional decision and noted that they had a contractual right to 
default the BBL upon the defaulting of the business loan as per the terms of their lending 
products. This is known as a cross-default. And Barclays also explained that because the 
BBL guarantee given to lenders by the British Business Bank  who administered the BBL 
scheme  included that lenders were expected to follow their standard recovery processes 
(which in Barclays case include cross-defaulting), that Barclays were obliged to cross-default the BBL and would be in breach of the BBL guarantee if they didnt do so.
It isnt for this service to decide on the legal obligations of Barclays under the BBL scheme. 
But I do note that the BBL guarantee applies to the BBL  which in this case wasnt in 
arrears such that any recoveries process was directly required  and the BBL guarantee 
isnt applicable to the non-BBL business loan which Barclays defaulted. And as I explained 
in my provisional decision letter, I accept that Barclays followed their own process to cross-
default the BBL correctly, and it is for this reason that I havent awarded any form of 
compensation against Barclays regarding this point in my provisional decision. 
But as I also explained in my provisional decision letter, this service is focussed on fairness 
of outcome. And it doesnt follow that because a business has followed a process correctly 
that the outcome of the correctly followed process is a fair one. And if I feel that a correctly 
followed process has led to an unfair outcome  as I do in this instance  it is within my remit 
to instruct a business such as Barclays to act to undo the results of the correctly followed 
process that has resulted in the unfair outcome. So, for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision letter  I will be instructing Barclays to undo the BBL cross-default.
Mr W also responded to my provisional decision letter. I feel that several of the points Mr W 
raised, such as his dissatisfaction at the service provided by Barclays, have already been 
addressed in my provisional decision letter. But Mr W did question why a significant aspect 
of Ps overall complaint  that Barclays didnt properly or adequately respond to the 
complaints he was making about their actions on Ps behalf  wasnt addressed at all.
The reason for this is because this isnt an aspect of Ps complaint that this service can 
consider. This is because, as per the rules by which this service must abide  which can be 
found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook  this service is only able to consider complaints about specified activities, of 
which complaint handling isnt one. In short, this service cant consider a complaint about 
how a business has handled a complaint, because its not within our remit to do so.
What this service can consider is the actions of Barclays which led to the complaint. And as 
explained in my provisional decision letter, I feel that Barclays acted fairly by considering Ps 
business loan to have been in arrears and to have subsequently defaulted that loan and 
withdrawn Ps overdraft facility. And while Mr W has highlighted what he feels are failings in 
the service P received from Barclays, I dont feel that any of these potential factors did 
reasonably influence the key point here  that P didnt make the business loan payments 
that were required of it.
However, as explained above, I do feel that the cross-defaulting of Ps BBL has resulted in 
an unfair outcome in this specific instance. And because of this Ill be upholding this 
complaint in Ps favour on that basis, as was described in my provisional decision above. 
I realise this outcome may not be entirely satisfactory to either Mr W or Barclays, but I hope 
that all parties will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must reinstate Ps BBL as it was at the time of the default. This includes any time 
that remained on the payment deferral plan that P was benefiting from, as well as any 
potential that P may have had to request further payment deferral options. 
Barclays must also remove all adverse credit file reporting incurred by P resulting from the 
defaulting of the BBL.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman