DRN-4142340
The complaint
Ms A complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave her a credit 
account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In June 2017, Ms A applied for a credit account with Studio Retail. Ms A was given a 
£100 credit limit. The credit limit was increased four times and the last increase was to 
£425 in July 2018. 
In 2023, Ms A complained to Studio Retail to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Studio Retail ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before providing her with credit. 
Studio Retail disagreed and so Ms A brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Ms A disagreed and so the 
case has passed to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms As complaint is that Studio Retail made credit available that was unaffordable. Studio 
Retail has explained that they relied in part on information that Ms A provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out credit searches in Ms As 
name to assess Ms As level of debt at the times of each lending decision and to understand 
how she had been managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring 
metric, Studio Retail decided to agree to the account in 2017. 
I have noted that whilst Ms As credit history showed some adverse markings, there were no 
adverse markings in the six months prior to the application for credit. And the credit checks 
also showed that there were no adverse markers on any of Ms As other open borrowings. 
So, it seems most likely that Studio Retail would have understood that Ms A was affording 
her existing credit at the time of the original lending decision. So, the lending looked to be 
affordable and reasonable at the time. 
In saying that I have noted that the initial credit limit was very modest and the maximum 
monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest. And I have been shown no 
submissions that undermine what Studio Retail told us they found at the time of the lending 
decisions. So, it seems to me that Studio Retail had insufficient reason to make more 
searching enquiries into Ms As circumstances at the time of the original lending decision.
After the initial lending decision, Studio Retail had the evidence of how Ms A was managing 
her Studio Retail account to add to its other credit checks. I have seen no evidence of the 
account being anything but well managed throughout the time the credit limit was being 
increased. 
And so, for the reasons given above, I dont think that the information that Studio Retail had 
at the time of each of the lending decisions, would have led them to feel they ought to make 
more searching enquiries into Ms As financial situation. Further, Studio Retail were not put 
on notice of any reason not to agree any of the lending requests it agreed to from any of the 
above. 
I have noted that Ms A did get into some financial difficulty on her account in 2019. But I 
have to look at the information that was available to Studio Retail at the time it made their 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Studio Retail provided to Ms A was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman