DRN-2672795
The complaint
Mr O1, represented by his father Mr O2, has complained about his motor insurer, Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited, in respect of a settlement it made to him when his car was 
damaged beyond repair.
What happened
Mr O1 was involved in an accident and he made a claim to Admiral. Admiral said the car was 
a write-off. Mr O1 felt his car had been worth £3,490 as hed paid this for it just 30 days 
previously. He also researched recent adverts and found he couldnt get a similar car for less 
than that figure. Admiral offered £2,950. It said this was the market value for Mr O1s vehicle 
and the price of adverts was irrelevant. Mr O1 felt hed been treated unfairly due to his age 
and Mr O2 made a complaint to us.
Mr O2 noted that our website said insurers should consider adverts as they might show the 
market value was wrong. But also that another comment on our website says that advertised 
prices are often now reflective of actual selling prices. Mr O2 said that Mr O1s car has a 
specialist following and there arent many similar cars on the market. He said it would be fair 
for Admiral, in this instance, to pay Mr O1 the value hed asked for; £3,490, or provide him 
with a replacement car.
Our investigator didnt think Admiral had treated Mr O1 unfairly due to his age. He noted 
Admirals settlement was based on industry trade guides used for valuing second hand cars, 
with Admiral having used the highest of two guide prices for settlement. He didnt think it was 
unfair for it to do this whilst dismissing the advertised prices Mr O1 had shown it.
Mr O2 said he felt wed ignored what our own website said about advertised prices and that 
wed let Mr O1 down by not making Admiral pay him a higher settlement. Mr O2 said it 
simply isnt possible for Mr O1 to replace the car for that figure and it doesnt reflect what the 
premium was paid for, because the full value for his car hasnt been paid. Mr O2 said that 
the fact remains that Mr O1 had an accident that wasnt his fault, whilst being 
comprehensively insured, but remains out of pocket. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr O1 and Mr O2s frustration  to have just purchased a car which is then 
declared a total loss and to feel out of pocket despite being insured is a difficult position to 
be in. But I do think Admiral has settled the claim fairly in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. In saying that Im mindful that the policy only requires Admiral, in the event of the 
car being written-off, to pay Mr O1 the market value of the car. Theres no requirement or 
option for Admiral to replace the car. 
The policy says the market value is the cost of replacing the car with a similar one, based 
on market prices. But doesnt set out how the market value of the car will be determined. 
That is not unusual in motor policies. Essentially the insurer determines that and we expect it 
to do so fairly. Whilst it maybe that advertised prices now dont vary as much from the end 
sale/purchase prices as once they might  we find the trade guides valuations to be reliable, 
based as they are on likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which are still often 
inflated to allow for negotiation. But well always take any details about pricing in the round  
for example the advertised price of a car, taken alongside the motor trade guides where the 
values from those guides vary, might suggest that the guide prices, in respect of that 
particular car, are flawed. 
  
Here though, the two trade guides Admiral used came back with similar market values for 
Mr O1s car; £2,630 and £2,950. And when our investigator checked a third guide that we 
have access to, this showed a market value of £3,025. Admirals settlement was based on 
the higher of the two guides it had access to, rather than an average of those or a value 
within their range (either of which it could have used). And it was only a few pounds less 
than the third guide price which we have access to. With all three guides being so close, 
I find it unlikely that the market values determined in the trade guides are flawed. 
I know Mr O1 feels his car is rare  but just because there may not be many for sale 
currently, doesnt make it a rare car. Nor have I seen anything that makes me think this 
particular type of car is more expensive because the market for them is competitive due to 
an enthusiastic following. And the fact that three trade guides had sufficient data from which 
to derive market values indicates that the sale of that model of car isn't particularly unusual. 
If sales of the car were rare then the trade guides might struggle to offer a valuation.
In short, Ive seen nothing to make me think the advertised price Mr O1s shown us of cars 
for sale similar to his should be taken as being the most likely indicator of the market value 
of his damaged car. So I think, in relying on the motor trade guides, Admiral settled Mr O1s 
claim fairly  it checked the trade guides, they werent at odds with each other and it paid the 
higher of the two values given. And I havent seen anything that suggests Admiral treated 
Mr O1 unfairly or dealt with him in any negative manner due to his age. I dont think the 
outcome/settlement offer would have been any different for any other policyholder. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O1 to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman