DRN-4441516
The complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service he received from Revolut Ltd (Revolut) when it 
attempted to verify his ID in line with its knowing your customer obligations. He says it has 
unfairly blocked access to his money when he was vulnerable.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr M opened an account with Revolut online supplying a photograph of 
himself in line with Revoluts electronic identity verification process. At the time he was not 
told that further photo ID evidence would be needed.
Following this Revolut changed its know your customer (KYC) process which now required 
new and existing customers to supply adequate photo ID such as a passport or drivers 
licence. Revolut contacted Mr M about this to inform him what was needed in late March 
2023. 
Mr M contacted Revolut via chat on 18 April and explained that he didnt have either of the 
documents it says it would accept and asked whether his voter authority certificate would 
meet its requirements and uploaded a copy. Revolut declined to accept this and Mr M in 
response asked Revolut delete it and asked Revolut when his account will become 
unfunctional to which Revolut replied in around 5 to 12 weeks. But Mr M then was told on 19 
April restrictions had been placed on his account until its review was complete. Revolut 
completed its review and lifted restrictions on 20 April.  
Mr M raised a complaint regarding all of this. Revolut says it took Mr Ms complaint to its 
KYC team to see if it could make an exception regarding the ID requirements but this was 
not granted. Revolut said its aware of Mr Ms vulnerabilities and has procedures in place to 
adapt to his unique circumstances but it has to follow its regulations and procedures and that 
this doesnt allow an exception regarding what is considered valid photographic ID.
Revolut informed Mr M on 21 April that the restrictions had been removed and that he was 
now able to use it as normal  but this wasnt entirely correct. Although Mr M could use his 
account and account was verified at the first level, his account remained unverified from the 
perspective of KYC. Revolut offered Mr M £40 and then £80 to compensate for this  which 
he rejected and brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr M is unhappy that he continues to receive template letters/communications telling him his 
documents are about to expire when he never supplied any documents when opening his 
account. He says the ongoing threat of restricting his account is having a severe detrimental 
impact on his health and that it shouldve been made clear when he opened his account 
what sort of photo ID would be required.
Following this Revolut agreed to re-evaluate and look to make an exception in Mr Ms case 
about what ID it will accept from him to meet its KYC requirements. Revolut has asked that 
Mr M send it his voter authority certificate so it can have its KYC team assess this and see if 
this will satisfy KYC regulations. If this document is deemed enough, Revolut will lift the 
ongoing request for Mr M to supply ID on his account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns and thought that Revoluts request for 
ID following the opening of his account to comply with anti money-laundering legislation was 
reasonable. They thought that the template letters Mr M received stating his documents are 
about to expire  when hed never supplied documents  made things confusing and that 
Revolut may want to consider changing them. But overall thought Mr M wouldve understood 
the letters were templated and what they meant in regards to his situation. 
They thought the offer of £80 compensation was fair and reasonable to address the distress 
and inconvenience caused by Revoluts errors in its administration bearing in mind the 
extent of the inconvenience and distress caused. 
Mr M in his last correspondence confirmed his account with Revolut was open and 
accessible. Mr M has been asked to send in his voter authority certificate as an alternative 
form of ID so Revoluts KYC team can evaluate whether it is enough to satisfy its 
requirements and verify Mr Ms account  despite repeated requests Mr M has failed to do 
so. 
Mr M doesnt wish to accept Revoluts offer. He says it could have considered making an 
exception to its ID requirements sooner and wants Revolut to change its processes for 
customers in a similar position to his and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make 
Revolut change its systems or processes  such as how it meets its legal and regulatory 
requirements regarding customer identities and the administrative process it follows for this.  
Ultimately, how Revolut runs its business and the processes it has in place are commercial 
decisions and isnt something for me to get involved with. We offer an informal dispute 
resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mr M has experienced and see if Revolut has done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr M 
back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
And while I wouldnt tell a business what its regulatory requirements were and how it needed 
to meet them  I would expect it to put reasonable measures in place to ensure these 
requirements (in this case satisfying itself of its customers identity) were met. 
I accept Mr M has been inconvenienced by this and distressed as he was unable to provide 
the type of ID Revolut would accept as he didnt hold either a passport or a drivers license 
and considered this discriminatory. 
But since bringing his complaint to this service Revolut has agreed to make an exception in 
Mr Ms case  albeit after he raised his complaint - and allow him to submit alternative ID to 
its KYC team to see if that will satisfy its legal requirements. Revolut arent able to say for 
certain whether the document Mr M has offered to supply will meet its KYC obligations, and I appreciate that may leave Mr M feeling insecure about his account. But I dont think Revolut 
are treating Mr M unfairly  as ultimately without seeing the document first it is unable to 
ascertain if the document will be acceptable to meet its regulatory and legal obligations. 
So overall I dont think Revolut did anything wrong when it requested Mr M provide it with 
certain information to meet its KYC requirements and Im satisfied it has now done enough 
to cater to Mr Ms circumstances by agreeing to assess whether alternative documentation 
could be accepted in Mr Ms case.  If Mr M hasnt done so already and wishes to continue to 
use his Revolut account he should supply Revolut with the document he offered and that has 
been requested. 
Furthermore, Revolut has already agreed that it made a mistake in telling Mr M that he 
account was unrestricted and offered him £80 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. So I dont think I need to make a finding here. What I need to 
consider is whether the compensation offered to Mr M is enough. And I think it is. I say this 
as I understand that although Revolut continues to ask for documentation from Mr M to verify 
his account, he also continues to have unrestricted access to it. 
I also understand that Mr M is unhappy about the templated letters he received regarding 
this  in particular the letters making reference to previously supplied documents. But as I 
stated above, it is not for me to tell Revolut how it should run its business, including the 
procedures it should have in place or what it should write in its correspondence. And overall, 
I think Mr M understood what Revolut required from him and what the correspondence 
meant for him. So I dont think the detriment Mr M has suffered justifies an uplift on the £80 
compensation already offered.
And so it follows I am satisfied Revolut has already done enough to put things right for Mr M 
and Im not going to ask it do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that what Revolut Ltd has already offered to 
settle Mr Ms complaint is a fair way to settle his complaint and I do not require it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman