DRN-2373268
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of his business 4, complains that Advanced Payment
Solutions Limited (APS) failed to recall a payment he made in error.
What happened
Mr R says he made a payment on 1 July 2019 to his landlord for £500. He says he realised
shortly afterwards that he had made the payment to the wrong account and that the landlord
had given him new account details. Mr R says APS refused to help him and told him to take
up the problem with his landlord or his landlords bank. He would like the money refunded.
APS says it spoke to Mr R on a number of occasions and correctly told him that it couldnt
recall the payment. It says Mr R said the payment was made to the wrong account but later
said it was made to wrong recipient. APS says Mr R will need to take this issue up with his
landlord as it appears to be a civil dispute.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The
investigator thought APS ought to have tried to help Mr R recover the money but didnt think
there was any guarantee the money would be returned. The investigator recommended APS
pay Mr R £75 compensation.
APS doesnt accept that view and maintains it couldnt request a recall of the payment with
out as it says 100% concrete evidence this was a mistake.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked both sides for further information. I asked
APS to explain what evidence it would consider and why it didnt just ask for the recall of the
money. I also asked Mr R to explain what he had done to get his money back and he says
his landlord gave him the new account details, but he made the mistake by using the old one
and his landlord hasnt assisted him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I said I couldnt see any reason why APS couldnt simply request a recall of this money. I 
also thought that if it had done so and the money could not be returned, then Mr R could 
have no complaint. As I would have thought in those circumstances APS would have done 
everything it could to have helped him. But as it did not, and I didnt think it explained why it 
would not, I thought provisionally it should pay Mr Rs business £500 which is the money that 
was lost.
I listened to all of the calls between the parties and I was satisfied that Mr R maintained
throughout the calls that the payment was made to an incorrect account and that he had
made a mistake. I appreciate that APS says it needed as it said concrete evidence there
was an error, but I couldnt see what else Mr R could provide that would convince APS there
was a mistake. I was satisfied Mr R told APS there was a mistake and that in itself is 
evidence of a mistake. I also thought that Mr R contacted APS on a number of occasions 
and that ought to have provided further evidence to APS that he was concerned about what 
took place and that an error had taken place.
I looked at the faster payment guidance on these sorts of issues. And I thought a
business should take action to recall a payment where there was evidence of a genuine
mistake. I found there was such evidence of a mistake here and so I thought APS ought to 
have attempted to recall the payment. I also thought the guidance said that even if the
circumstances were unclear as APS says here, that a payment recall should still be
attempted.
So, I thought that even if APS thought the circumstances were not clear or that it
thought this may have been a civil dispute it ought to have attempted to recall the money.
I accepted that if the landlords account had been closed then the money ought to have been
returned to Mr Rs account and that the landlord may have refused to return the money if the
account was still open, and a recall attempt made. But was satisfied those are questions that
will remain unanswered as APS didnt try, as the guidance says it should, to recall the
payment.
I made clear that if APS had tried to help Mr R by trying to recall the money
and that attempt was unsuccessful, then I would have concluded in those circumstances it
had reasonably done what it could to help him.
I appreciated the investigators view that she couldnt be sure any recall attempt would have
been successful and so it would be unfair to order APS to pay the £500. But I thought
it impossible to say what would have happened if the recall had been
attempted but as APS didnt try and make it, then that resulted in Mr R not having any
prospect of the return of his money. In those circumstances I thought that APS
should pay £500 compensation for what took place.
APS has replied to my provisional decision and says it disagrees with it. It says it did all it 
could, and it was Mr R that changed his version of events. It also says it should now attempt 
to recall the money.
My decision
I have reconsidered all of the evidence and arguments but have come to the same decision 
as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. I have made clear that I dont 
find Mr R has been inconsistent in what he told APS and I dont think it matters in any event.
I am satisfied the key issue is that APS ought to have attempted an urgent recall of the 
money in line with the guidance, but it did not, even though it appears to now accept it could 
have. For that reason, I find that Mr R was prevented from at least attempting to get his 
money back and it is too late now for APS to suggest it should carry out such a recall.
Putting things right
I Intend to order APS to pay 4 the £500 for the reasons I have explained.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited to pay 4 £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 4 to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman