DRN-4132197
The complaint
Miss R complains TSB Bank plc blocked her account and decided to close it. Miss R would 
like compensation and the account to remain open.
What happened
Miss R had an account with TSB. On 1 November 2021 Miss R wanted to withdraw cash in 
branch. TSB asked for proof of entitlement to funds paid into the account. The account was 
blocked pending the review. 
Miss R said the information was provided and she was told she could attend branch to 
collect her money as the account was unblocked. When she went into branch Miss R was 
unable to collect her funds as the account remained blocked.
TSB notified Miss R on 9 November 2021. TSB said they were to close her account giving 
her one months notice on 9 December 2021 and her overdraft would be payable at that 
point.
Miss R was unhappy with TSB 
TSB agreed they had made mistakes in the information they had requested from Miss R and 
given to Miss R and paid her £100 compensation.
Miss R referred her complaint to our service. 
TSB made an offer to resolve the complaint. They would waive Miss Rs existing overdraft of 
£129.37 and pay Miss R an additional £50 in compensation. Miss R rejected the offer she 
wanted the account reinstated and more compensation.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. They said they thought the offer from TSB was fair 
and £279.37 was reasonable compensation for the issues Miss R had had to deal with.
Miss R rejected the view. She thought TSB clearing the overdraft was paying themselves not 
Miss R.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB requested proof of entitlement of funds in Miss Rs account. They blocked Miss Rs 
account whilst they carried out the review. 
UK legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied TSB 
were complying with these obligations when they asked for the information about the source 
of funds and reviewed Miss Rs account. 
The terms and conditions of the account allow TSB to carry out these reviews and block 
payments and accounts whilst they are doing so. Im satisfied that TSB didnt act unfairly 
when they carried out the review or asked Miss R for the information they needed.
TSB has accepted that they could have handled things better and originally paid Miss R 
£100 compensation. They have since put forward an offer of an extra £50 plus settling the 
existing overdraft of £129.37.
I agree that TSB could have handled things better, so I am going to limit myself to consider 
what is the fair and reasonable compensation to award Miss R in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
I note that Miss Rs account was blocked from 1 November 2021 until 9 November 2021. 
During this time Miss R went through a lot of trouble calling TSB and trying to send them the 
information they required. Miss R had a wasted journey into branch when she thought she 
would be able to access the funds in her account, but contrary to the information she had 
been given it was still blocked.
I appreciate that all this effort took time and Miss R has said she had no money to pay for 
herself and her childs day to day living expenses. I know Miss R was very frustrated.
Miss R has said that the offer to pay off her overdraft is a benefit to TSB and not to her. I 
disagree. Miss R has already had the benefit of this money, but this is owed by her to TSB, 
and she would have to pay it back. Therefore, the offer to clear her overdraft is the same as 
being given £129.37 by TSB.
Having considered the circumstances which Miss R found herself in I am satisfied that 
£279.37 is a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances and I wont be awarding any 
more.
Miss R was told her account would close after 30 days on 9 November 2021. I can see from 
the file that Miss R had access to the account during that period and she was able to make 
alternative banking arrangements.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive next looked at TSBs decision to close Miss Rs account. Banks are entitled to end their 
business relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Miss Rs account say that TSB 
can close an account in certain circumstances immediately and with notice. TSB wrote to 
Miss R and gave her 30 days notice that it intended to close her account. For TSB to act 
fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and 
having looked at the terms and all the evidence Im satisfied TSB has applied the terms 
fairly. So, it was entitled to close the account and I cant say TSB treated Miss R unfairly.  It 
follows I wont be asking them to reopen the account.
In summary, whilst I appreciate Miss R will be disappointed with my decision, I think the sum 
of £279.37 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset she has suffered.My final decision
For the reasons stated above I uphold the complaint I direct TSB Bank plc to: 
pay Miss R £50 compensation 
clear Miss Rs outstanding overdraft in the sum of £129.37 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman