DRN-3118863
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to correctly action a
balance transfer request. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr W opened a credit card account with RBS as they offered a preferential
interest rate of 0% over two years. Mr W said he took advantage of this offer and made an
on-line balance transfer from his RBS credit card account to another credit card account he
had with his provider Ill call C. But the balance transfer didnt get credited to Mr Ws credit
card account with C.
On checking with RBS, they said the transfer was made and C had confirmed the payment
was received, but it hadnt been applied to Mr Ws account with C. RBS said they gave
Mr W the details of the payment theyd sent and said this should have been sufficient for C
to resolve the issue. Mr W said neither provider was helping him as he was being passed
back and forth between the two. He complained to RBS.
RBS said C had received the payment but hadnt released it to Mr Ws account. They said
if Mr W wanted them to, they could attempt to recall the payment. Mr W wasnt happy with
this response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that RBS hadnt shown theyd tried to recall the payment for Mr W. And
hadnt responded to her request for information. She said RBS should compensate Mr W
£250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
RBS didnt respond so Mr Ws complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Payments are sometimes mistakenly credited to an account they were not intended for. The
reasons for this can vary. But typically its caused by:
a mistake made by the person sending the money (for example, entering the
wrong account number details on a transfer form or online transaction);
a failure by the financial business handling the payment for the sender (for
example, a bank making a mistake when copying down account information given
by the sender); or
a failure by the financial business receiving the payment (for example, a bank
putting the money into the wrong account).
So, I need to be able to determine what happened to the money and why. Usually I would
consider:
any forms or documentation completed in relation to the payment;
an audit trail for the payment; and
copies of communications between the consumer and the financial business they
are complaining about  in relation to the payment.
RBS hasnt responded to requests for additional information either from our investigator or
that I have asked for. So, I will make my decision based on the evidence I have seen.
I can see from the information RBS has given to us that Mr W opened his credit card
account in October 2019, to take advantage of the two-year 0% interest offer. As Mr W had
a credit card with C that accrued interest he asked for a balance transfer of £1800 to be
made to his credit card account with C.
RBS has shown the payment of £1800.00 was made on 22 October 2019 for credit card
ending *8882. Their records show the payment was sent to an account number ending
*0178.
Mr W said he made the balance transfer request on line for his credit card ending *8882, the
account details he has given has the same sort code as the payment sent by RBS, but the
account number is completely different, ending *6055.
RBS on contacting C were told theyd received the payment sent by them, but it wasnt to
Mr Ws account, and the above would support this. So, what I need to determine is whether I
think the mistake was made by Mr W or by RBS. Despite several requests to RBS for details
about the on-line transaction the only information provided is that detailed above. So, my
decision is based on what I think most likely happened.
While Mr W might have made a mistake in inputting the account details, perhaps transposing
a digit or typing in a wrong digit, I dont think thats happened here. The right sort code has
been used when RBS sent the payment, but it was sent to a completely different account
number not a transposed or wrong digit. So, I think, without any other contradictory
evidence, that the most likely explanation is that RBS sent the payment to the wrong account
number.
The relevant regulations say that a payment service provider should take "reasonable steps"
to recover funds that have been mistakenly applied to an account. But I cant see that RBS
has done this. RBS provided the details of the payment they sent to Mr W, but this only
confirmed to C that the payment was for an account that wasnt Mr Ws. I cant see that 
RBS made any attempt to recall the payment back from C after they were made aware that
the payment hadnt credited Mr Ws account with C.
Ive considered how to put things right as Ive no doubt that Mr W has been affected by the
situation. The purpose of the balance transfer was to pay off a credit card that was accruing
interest, but this hasnt happened. So, in the first instance Mr W should be put back into the
position he was at in October 2019. And he can then choose if he wants to make the
balance transfer now  even though the 0% interest period is coming to an end.
I also propose to tell RBS to pay Mr W the £250 our investigator thought was appropriate for
his trouble and upset. As hes had to experience the stress of the situation for a good many
months, and had the additional financial burden caused by having to make repayments on
both his C account and his RBS account.Responses to my provisional decision
 No further evidence or comments were provided by either party for me to consider.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. And ask  the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
adjust Mr Ws credit card account with them to reflect the removal of the £1800
balance transfer as if it hadnt been made in October 2019;
allow Mr W  if he wishes - to make a balance transfer to be sent to his account with
C. Any such transfer is to be on the same promotional terms, and subject to the
other terms and conditions that applied in October 2019. If:
a) Mr W makes a balance transfer, RBS must reimburse Mr W the interest
accrued on his C account from the date of the unsuccessful balance transfer
to the date of the balance transfer upon provision of the account statements
by Mr W for his C account. And give Mr W credit for any monies Mr W has
already paid towards his RBS credit card balance; or
b) if Mr W doesnt request a balance transfer, RBS must reimburse him the
interest accrued on his C account from the date of the unsuccessful balance
transfer to his acceptance of my final decision, upon provision of the account
statements by Mr W for his C account. And refund Mr W any monies hes
paid towards his RBS credit card balance plus 8% simple interest from the
date of payment to settlement.
Pay Mr W £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.
Bank of Scotland must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman