DRN-3381355
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
mishandled a claim under their motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The policy is held in Mrs Ks name with Mr K as a named driver. Mr K was the driver involved 
in the claim and has handled this complaint with Mrs Ks permission, so I will refer to him 
throughout.
Mr K was involved in an accident in November 2021 and contacted LV to notify it. The car 
was still driveable and Mr K took it to one of LVs approved repairers for it to estimate the 
repair cost.
About 12 days after the accident Mr K rang LV to chase up getting repairs done. He was told 
by one of LVs claims handlers that the vehicle was booked in for repairs about a month 
later. LV have since said that the information on their system was wrong. Later that same 
day, LVs engineer rang Mr K and told him that the cost of repairs to the car were more than 
its market value, so LV had decided to write the car off. 
Mr K told the engineer that LV had already decided to repair the car, the engineer was 
surprised but agreed that the repairs would go ahead. The claims handler then contacted Mr 
K and reiterated LVs position that the car would be written off because the costs of repair 
were estimated as being higher than the car value. It also said that the repairer had only 
estimated the costs of repair and it was likely these costs would rise when the car was 
stripped down and more damage found.
Mr K was unhappy about this. He said that LV should stick with their decision to repair it. He 
said that his family needed the car and he wanted compensation for his stress and 
inconvenience. LV wrote to Mr K and apologised for its mistake. It also said the car was 
written off, but it would waive its normal retention fee of £200 as a gesture of goodwill if Mr 
K wanted to keep it.
Mr K did keep the car and then he arranged to have it repaired.
As Mr K was still unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. He said he appreciated how frustrating Mr K had found the claims 
process. He said that LV had a right to determine how claims were handled under the terms 
of the policy, and once LV had realised itd made a mistake, and apologised for it, waiving 
the £200 retention fee was a fair response. 
Mr K asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
I do understand Mr Ks family situation after the accident in November 2021 and his 
frustration at LVs mistake and the stress and inconvenience it subsequently caused him. Mr 
K had to chase up progress on repairs some 12 days after the accident and when he did so, 
LV made the error.
LV have said that their system was at fault and he shouldnt have been told that his car 
would be repaired. The fact that he was told this was then compounded by the engineer later 
that day speaking to Mr K and agreeing that the repairs would still happen.
When LV realised that it had made the mistakes it had made, in my view it reacted quickly 
and clarified that the car would be written off rather than repaired. LV are able to do this 
because it, like other insurers, reserves the right to handle the claim as it wishes. The 
relevant part of the policy wording is:
Were entitled to:
 have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim
Mr K ultimately opted to retain the car and have it repaired himself, which he says caused 
him significant stress. Its important here that I mention that Mr K chose to keep the car 
knowing that it had suffered expensive damage so he must bear some responsibility for his 
stress.
I also need to think about what Mr Ks situation would be like if LV had told him the correct 
information about the car being written off. Under the terms of the policy, LV would have 
controlled the claim, written the car off and paid him the market value of it, less his excess 
and less the retention fee of £200 it charges customers who retain their cars. Mr K would still 
have had the stress of arranging repairs but would have £200 less to pay for them. 
My role is to assess whether LV acted fairly and reasonably in handling the claim in the way 
it did. LV have said it made a mistake and it has apologised. It responded quickly when it 
realised it made a mistake. It also waived the £200 retention fee normally charged to its 
customers who want to retain a written-off car as a gesture of goodwill. 
I appreciate Mr Ks comments about the impact on him and his family at the time and if I 
were to award him compensation for his distress and inconvenience then this service would 
recommend a figure in the region of the fee waived by LV already. So it follows that I find LV 
waiving the £200 fee is a fair and reasonable settlement and Im not going to ask it to pay 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman