DRN-3337986
The complaint
Mr J complains about the service he has received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
when using several of their banking services. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr J contacted Barclays to ask for a payment holiday extension on his 
Barclays credit card. Barclays agreed to the extension, but Mr Js account wasnt updated to 
reflect this. Soon after Barclays attempted to take Mr Js monthly payment by direct debit -
which was returned to them unpaid. Mr J was then charged a late payment fee which caused 
him to be concerned about his credit report and that it may have been impacted due to the 
error.
Mr J raised a SAR with Barclays in December 2020 which he says he never received. When 
he contacted Barclays to chase the response to his request, he was told that it was sent and 
received by him in early January 2021. But Mr J said he didnt receive copies of all the calls 
he requested.
A separate issue was also raised by Mr J as he was unhappy with the identification and 
verification checks Barclays use when communicating by telephone. Mr J wasnt satisfied 
that he was only asked for his year of birth when receiving a call from Barclays. He didnt 
think this was enough to identify him as the account holder. Because of this he said that 
Barclays were breaching General Data Protection Regulation (GPDR) and the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles.
Mr J raised a complaint with B in April 2021 about all of the above. Barclays upheld Mr Js 
complaint in part. They accepted the payment break extension wasnt applied and 
apologised for the error. As a gesture of goodwill, they refunded the £12 late payment fee 
and offered Mr J £100 because of the inconvenience that was caused. They apologised that 
the SAR request hadnt been actioned when Mr J was told at the time it would be. They 
confirmed that the SAR had now been registered and they gave him a reference for the 
logged request. Barclays also confirmed that Mr Js credit file hadnt been impacted because 
of the payment holiday not being updated at the time it was supposed to.
In response to Mr Js concerns about the security checks carried out, Barclays explained 
they have different levels of security depending on whether the call is inbound or outbound. 
And based on the nature of the information being discussed on the call, would also 
determine what level of security was required. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered Mr Js complaint. He felt the compensation offered by Barclays in relation to the 
payment holiday extension error was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He also 
made Mr J aware that the SAR had been sent to him in January 2021 and Barclays had 
provided proof of delivery. He explained that he didnt find that Barclays had breached their 
internal security procedures, and that it wasnt for our service to say whether the procedures 
Barclays have in place are correct or whether they need to be amended. 
Mr J rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. He said Barclays 
didnt take into consideration his vulnerability when they processed the payment break and 
kept bombarding him with calls. He said he didnt receive the calls he requested when he 
made the SAR and he expected the level of security checks carried out by Barclays would 
be higher due to the size of the bank. So, the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payment holiday extension
Ive looked at the contact notes Barclays have provided, and I cant see that the business 
contacted Mr J like he says they did. I asked Mr J to send me evidence to show me that 
Barclays called him excessively during the time the payment break was in place. But Mr J 
didnt give me any further information to consider. So, Im persuaded from system notes that 
the contact made by Barclays to Mr J during this period were necessary and doesnt amount 
to harassment. The contact made was service related, notifying Mr J of new account 
statements and flagging that the payment break was coming to an end  all of which I think 
would have been helpful for Mr J to know. and could have caused financial detriment if Mr J 
wasnt aware.
Ive also considered the compensation offered to Mr J by Barclays for the trouble and upset 
caused due to the error in not applying the payment holiday extension. I appreciate Mr J 
applied for the payment holiday extension due to having some difficulties with is finances. 
But I think the compensation already offered by Barclays of the refund of the £12 late 
payment charge, and £100 compensation payment is fair and reasonable considering his 
credit file wasnt impacted.  So, what I am considering here is the impact caused by Mr J 
assuming his credit file was impacted and the worry he had for the payment holiday not 
being put in place correctly. And given the period of time Mr J was affected by this I feel 
£100 fairly reflects this.
SAR
Mr J has confirmed he did receive the SAR from Barclays, but that he never received the call 
recordings he asked for. Barclays have given me a letter which shows they asked Mr J for 
further information to be able to locate the calls he was asking for. When Mr J was 
questioned about this by our service , he said he didnt get back to Barclays about this as he 
told them on the call he wanted a SAR, which he believes covers all material information 
including all calls. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask Mr J for further 
information regarding the calls as this wasnt provided Barclays havent been able to process 
the request for the calls Mr J asked for. As such I cant say it did anything wrong.
Caller verification
Mr J says Barclays have breached GDPR and the FCA Principles. Under our jurisdiction, we 
cant consider whether the business policy, or their interpretation is lawful  thats a matter 
for the FCA, or the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Im only concerned with how 
Barclays has dealt with Mr J individually, and whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in 
adhering to their own internal procedures they have for protecting their customers personal 
data. Businesses are required to observe the FCA Principles. But the FCA Principles arent 
prescriptive.
Having considered Barclays actions, I can see that they followed the process correctly as set out in in their internal security procedures. So, I cant say that Barclays have failed to 
look after and protect Mr Js personal information or treat him differently to any other 
customer.
Overall, I dont think that Barclays has treated Mr J unfairly. They have offered to pay £100 
for the payment holiday extension error, as well as refunding the £12 late payment fee. That 
seems reasonable to me. So, I wont be making Barclays pay any extra. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman