DRN-3441325
The complaint
Ms L, through a representative, says Lloyds Bank PLC lost a foreign cheque she paid in and 
has not offered fair compensation.
What happened
On 8 October 2021 Ms L paid in a cheque for 20,500 euros. Lloyds lost the cheque but later 
agreed to process it from a copy. Ms L says the delay caused significant stress, impacted 
her health and prevented her from finding accommodation and starting a language course. 
She asks for £5,000 compensation. When Ms L brought her complaint to this service the 
money had still not credited her account, but during the course of the investigation it was 
received.
Following our involvement Lloyds made an offer to Ms L. It said it would pay her the 
difference in exchange rate between 1 December 2021 (when the cheque would have 
credited her account) and 15 March 2022 (when it did); interest for the period she was 
without access to her money and a further £100 compensation (it had paid £100 when it 
responded to Ms Ls complaint).
Our investigator said she felt that was a fair settlement and in line with the approach she 
would have taken had no offer been made. She explained that Lloyds has fairly considered 
the financial loss Ms L suffered, as well as the impact on Ms L.
Ms L was unhappy with this assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. 
So the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds caused the delay in processing the cheque by misplacing it. 
What remains in dispute is whether its offer to settle Ms Ls compliant is fair and reasonable. 
It offered to:
1. Calculate the difference between the cheque negotiation on the rate available on
1 December 2021 and 15 March 2022 and reimburse the difference to Ms L. This comes to 
£270.97.
2. Pay Ms L 8% simple annual interest based on the amount she would have received if the 
cheque had been deposited on 1 December 2021 until the cheque was deposited on 15 
March 2022. This comes to £390.61, inclusive of tax.
3. Pay Ms L an additional £100 for the upset this has caused, bringing the total 
compensation to £200.
When a bank makes an error our approach is to direct it to put the customer, in so much as 
is possible, back in the position they would be in had the mistake not occurred. I find that 
Lloyds offer is consistent with this approach. Ill explain why.
Ms L lost out as the exchange rate on the day the money credited her account was less 
favourable than on 1 December 2021. So It is right Lloyd should make her good for that loss. 
I find it is fair to use the date of the 1 December as it has evidenced foreign cheques take 
from 4 and up to 8 weeks to be paid.
Ms L was also without access to her money for that same period of time and in such 
circumstances we award annual interest at 8% simple. This takes into account that Ms L did 
not have her money and may have had to pay to borrow, or may have been prevented from 
investing.  I note that in this case the impact of the delay was that Ms L could not move 
forward with her plan to find accommodation or start a course. But she delayed these plans 
and has not evidenced this caused her any financial loss, rather it was inconvenient and 
stressful for her.
The final part of Lloyds offer considers this, and I think in combination with the 8% interest 
£200 is a fair payment. I know Ms L was looking or a much more significant payment but to 
reach my conclusion I have considered the time she was impacted for and how she had to 
change her plans. Ms Ls representative mentioned that the worry impacted her physical 
health. But as no medical evidence has been submitted I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds 
actions were responsible for any change in her health. 
Ms L also raised that Lloyds did not handle her complaint well - different people were 
involved and they had to repeat the problem many times. But we dont have the powers to 
look at how her complaint was handled as it is not a regulated activity.
Overall, I think the settlement offer is reasonable. I understand parts 1 and 2 have already 
been paid to Ms L so it should now make payment of the additional £100 compensation.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement Lloyds has: 
1. Calculated the difference between the cheque negotiation on the rate available on
1 December 2021 and 15 March 2022 and reimbursed the difference to Ms L.
This came to £270.97.
2. Paid Ms L 8% simple annual interest based on the amount she would have received if the 
cheque had been deposited on 1 December 2021 until the cheque was deposited on 15 
March 2022. This came to £390.61, inclusive of tax*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from this interest. Lloyds should give
Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
It now should:
3. Pay Ms L an additional £100 for the upset this has caused, bringing the total 
compensation to £200.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ls complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman