DRN-4311148
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the interest rate Mortgage Express has applied to her mortgage is 
excessive and unfair. She brings this complaint through a law firm.
What happened
Mrs S took out this mortgage with GMAC-RFC Limited in August 2007, jointly with her 
husband, Mr S. They borrowed just over £250,000 over a 25-year term, on an interest-only 
payment basis. The interest rate was fixed at 6.19% until 30 September 2009. It was then 
subject to the lenders standard variable rate (SVR) for the remainder of the term. The SVR 
at the time Mr and Mrs S took the mortgage out was 7.74%.
In November 2007, the mortgage was transferred from GMAC to Mortgage Express. 
Mortgage Express was the specialist lending brand of Bradford & Bingley Plc. During the 
global financial crisis of 2007-2009, Bradford & Bingley collapsed and was nationalised. 
Mortgage Express remained a separate firm owned by the nationalised Bradford & Bingley, 
and it stopped offering new mortgage interest rate products. Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage has 
remained with Mortgage Express ever since.
Mr S no longer lives in the mortgaged property. Mrs S says he hasnt done so for more than 
ten years, she has been paying the mortgage on her own, and shes no longer in contact 
with him. Mr S hasnt therefore joined this complaint.
In September 2021, through her representative, Mrs S complained to Mortgage Express 
about the interest rate she had been paying on her mortgage. In summary, she complained 
that:
- Mortgage Expresss SVR has consistently been too high, and excessive when compared 
to other lenders SVRs, particularly when Bank of England base rate was 0.5% or less. 
- Mortgage Expresss discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term 
that it could not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, 
arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do. In varying 
its SVR as it had, Mortgage Express had breached both this implied term and the 
express terms of its mortgage contract with Mr and Mrs S.
- Mortgage Express stopped offering new interest rate products in 2009, and Mrs S was 
unable to remortgage elsewhere. She had a reasonable expectation that she would be 
able to take a new interest rate when the initial fixed rate ended, but was unable to do so 
 and as a result she has had to keep her mortgage on Mortgage Expresss SVR. 
Mortgage Express should have taken this into account in setting its SVR but did not do 
so.
- In setting its SVR at the level it had, Mortgage Express had treated Mrs S unfairly, in 
breach of Principle 6 in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, and in breach of 
Mortgage Conduct of Business rules. 
- Mortgage Express should refund interest charged above Bank of England base rate plus 
1.5%, and pay Mrs S compensation.
Mortgage Express said it had done nothing wrong and it had operated the interest rate on 
Mrs Ss mortgage fairly and in line with the mortgage terms. It said the SVR isnt a tracker 
rate and it had never described it as such. While it doesnt offer new interest rates, there had 
been no early repayment charge applicable to Mrs Ss mortgage since 2009 and no other 
barrier to her remortgaging elsewhere if she wished. 
Through her representative, Mrs S referred her complaint to us. Our Investigator said that 
time limits apply to this complaint, and didnt recommend that the complaint about the period 
which isnt time-barred be upheld. Mrs S didnt accept that and asked for an Ombudsmans 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, the scope of my power to consider this complaint is limited to 
the six-year period leading up to the date Mrs S made this complaint on 7 September 2021. 
This is because of the time limit rules I must apply. The relevant rules, which are set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook at DISP 2.8.2 R and are available online, say 
that complaints must be made within six years after the date of the event complained of, or, 
if it gives more time to complain, within three years of when the complainant knew or ought 
reasonably to have known that they had cause for complaint.
I cant consider a complaint made outside those timescales, unless theres a record of an 
earlier complaint, unless the business complained about consents, or unless there are 
exceptional circumstances to explain the complaint having been made late. Here, theres no 
record of an earlier complaint, Mortgage Express hasnt consented, and I dont find there are 
exceptional circumstances to explain the delay in complaining.  
Mrs S complained to Mortgage Express about the interest rate on 7 September 2021. I think 
she should reasonably have known over the years what interest rate she was being charged, 
because Mortgage Express wrote to her regularly with details of the rate in letters and 
statements. So I think she ought reasonably to have known when she received rate change 
letters and statements that she had cause for complaint about paying the SVR and about the 
level of the SVR. 
This means I can only consider this complaint from 7 September 2015, which is six years 
before Mrs S complained. In doing so, however, I will take account of earlier variations to 
Mrs Ss mortgage interest rate because they form part of all the circumstances of this 
complaint leading up to the interest applied after 7 September 2015.
Turning now to the merits of this complaint, I dont think that Mortgage Express did anything 
wrong in not offering Mrs S a new interest rate after 7 September 2015. There was nothing 
to say that it had to do so, either in the mortgage offer and terms and conditions, or in law or 
the rules of mortgage regulation.
Mortgage Express didnt offer new rates to any other existing customers either, so in not 
offering Mrs S a rate it wasnt treating her less favourably than other customers. And no 
early repayment charges applied to the mortgage after the fixed rate ended in September 
2009, so Mortgage Express didnt stop Mrs S from applying for better rates with other 
lenders.Ive carefully considered the fairness of the interest rate Mortgage Express charged Mrs S. 
Her mortgage was subject to Mortgage Expresss SVR from 1 October 2009 onwards. The 
SVR had reduced between August 2007, when Mrs S took out the mortgage, and October 
2009  it had fallen from 7.74% to 4.84%. Bank of England base rate fell further during that 
period  from 5.75% to 0.5%.
The SVR remained at the same level until 2016. Between 2016 and September 2021, when 
Mrs S made this complaint, the SVR varied at the same time, and by the same amount, as 
Bank of England base rate. 
In changing the interest rate from time to time, Mortgage Express was limited by the terms of 
the mortgage contract. The terms and conditions are the ones entered into by GMAC  they 
remained in force and applicable after the transfer. Theres a term in those terms and 
conditions which says that Mortgage Express could only vary the interest rate in certain 
circumstances:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the following 
reasons:
(a) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar body. 
Theres nothing in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions to say that the SVR must track 
Bank of England base rate, with or without a margin. That said, for the period I can consider, 
from 7 September 2015, the SVR did only vary to reflect changes to the Bank of England 
base rate. Thats explicitly provided for in the terms and conditions, and so I dont think the 
variations to the SVR from 7 September 2015 onwards were unfair.
Ive also thought about whether the SVR was set at a fair level at the start of the period thats 
in time. In order to do so, Ive taken account of historic variations to the SVR, which  from 
the starting point of when Mrs S took the mortgage out  cumulatively led up to the rate she 
was charged from 7 September 2015 onwards. Thats because if one of those earlier 
changes wasnt made in accordance with the contract, for example, it might not be fair to 
charge an interest rate from 7 September 2015 which relied  in part  on that earlier 
variation.
In making the changes to the SVR it made from when the mortgage was taken out to when it 
reached 4.84% in late 2008  after which there were no further changes before 7 September 
2015  Mortgage Express has told us that it relied on condition 3.1 (b)  to reflect actual or 
anticipated changes in the cost of funding its mortgage lending business. It has given us 
detailed information about these costs. Im satisfied its appropriate to receive that 
information in confidence, as permitted by our rules, subject to providing a summary of it.In summary, the information shows that Mortgage Express was funded by its parent 
company, Bradford & Bingley, in the form of loan facilities. Bradford & Bingley, before its 
collapse and nationalisation, predominantly raised funding on the wholesale markets. These 
wholesale market funding costs were generally driven by or related to the London Interbank 
Offered rate (LIBOR), not the Bank of England base rate. Before the financial crisis, LIBOR 
and base rate were broadly comparable. But during the financial crisis there was a 
significant dislocation between LIBOR and base rate, such that reductions in base rate 
werent matched by corresponding reductions in LIBOR  and, therefore, reductions in 
Bradford & Bingleys cost of wholesale funding. 
This divergence meant that while Mortgage Expresss SVR reduced (reflecting the 
reductions in LIBOR), it didnt reduce by as much as base rate. This was the case across the 
mortgage industry, not just for Mortgage Expresss SVR.
Following Bradford & Bingleys collapse, it was less exposed to movements in the wholesale 
markets and became primarily government funded. There were certain conditions and costs 
associated with its government funding  which in turn influenced the funding it, as the 
parent company, was able to provide to Mortgage Express.
Having considered all this information, Im satisfied that when Mortgage Express made 
changes to the SVR between 2007 and 2008, it did so relying on condition 3.1. Im further 
satisfied that it was entitled to rely on condition 3.1 and, in particular, on condition 3.1 (b) 
when reducing the SVR but increasing the margin over base rate, because the cost of 
funding its mortgage lending business was in fact changing, and the changes to the SVR 
reflected the changes to the cost of funding its mortgage lending business. Its true that 
Mortgage Express ceased to be an active mortgage lender, seeking out new business. But it 
still operated a mortgage lending business in respect of its existing loan book, which 
included Mrs Ss mortgage.
Its also important to note that condition 3.1 gives Mortgage Express the power to vary the 
interest rate, but it doesnt create an obligation to vary it. In other words, Mortgage Express 
has the power to change the SVR  but only if certain conditions are met. If those conditions 
are not met it has no power to change the SVR  and even if they are met, it is not obliged to 
change the SVR.
I dont accept Mrs Ss representatives argument that Mrs S had a reasonable expectation 
that the SVR would always be at 1.5% or a similar margin above Bank of England base rate. 
Thats not in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions, and Ive seen no evidence of such 
a policy or, if there was one, that it applied to Mrs Ss mortgage. Mrs Ss representative has 
referred to an archived webpage, but that refers to Mortgage Expresss variable interest rate 
products, not its SVR. It also pre-dates the financial crisis. Ive seen nothing to indicate that 
GMAC made any such commitment, and Mrs S cant have relied on something Mortgage 
Express said when she took out her mortgage with GMAC, a different lender. 
Mrs Ss representative has also said there is an implied term that Mortgage Express 
shouldnt exercise its power to vary the interest rate dishonestly, for an improper purpose, 
capriciously, arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do. 
Ive explained why Ive found that Mortgage Express acted fairly in varying its SVR during 
the period I can consider, and in reaching my conclusions Ive also kept in mind the Unfair 
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations, as well as the relevant rules about mortgage 
lending and Financial Conduct Authority requirements. I dont think Mrs Ss representatives 
argument about an implied term adds anything substantive for me to consider.  In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express acted in line with the mortgage 
terms in varying the SVR as it did, and I dont consider that it applied interest to Mrs Ss 
mortgage unfairly for the period I can consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman