DRN-2338486
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs F complain that repair work carried out by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) in 2019, under a home emergency policy, was substandard and has caused further 
damage to their home.
What happened
 In 2019, Mr and Mrs F made a claim under their home emergency policy, which at the time 
was underwritten by RSA. The claim related to an escape of water from a toilet and RSA 
replaced a cistern. 
Mr and Mrs F made a further home emergency policy claim in 2020 to the new underwriters 
of the plan, who I will call A. When A inspected the damage, they reported the flush pipe 
had come apart and the whole toilet pan was broken. The report said this couldnt be 
repaired, and a vanity unit, floorboards and the ceiling below needed to be replaced. The 
report also said it wasnt safe to put the new toilet in until the floorboards were replaced, and 
suggested Mr and Mrs F claim for this under a buildings insurance policy they have with 
another insurer I shall call L.
L asked another business, I will call B, to assess the damage and provide a report. Bs report 
said some of the damage was likely caused by the 2019 emergency repair RSA carried out.
RSA separately assessed the damage and said the toilet was leaking from the flush cone 
when it was flushed, the floorboards were rotten due to the leak, and the fixing screws were 
hanging out. The report went on to say the vinyl floor was bubbling up, the cistern was 
attached at an angle, and the flush pipe and the flooring needed to be replaced before any 
work was carried out.
Mr and Mrs F attempted to raise their concerns with both company A and company L, but 
the work they were complaining about was completed whilst they held a home emergency 
policy with RSA, which had been arranged through their mortgage provider. In July 2020, the 
mortgage provider told Mr and Mrs F that they had passed the complaint onto RSA.
RSA provided a final response to Mr and Mrs F and upheld their complaint in part. They 
apologised Mr and Mrs Fs concerns hadnt been escalated to them sooner and that they 
failed to follow their own complaints process. RSA didnt consider there was enough 
evidence the damage in 2020 was the result of faulty workmanship in 2019. Regardless of 
this, RSA offered Mr and Mrs F the sum of £500 as a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience 
caused, which could be used to help purchase a new toilet.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with RSA and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at things for Mr and Mrs F and thought the report provided by B 
persuaded him that RSA didnt fix the leak properly in 2019. The investigator thought RSA 
should replace the toilet, lift the vinyl and inspect the floorboards and redecorate the dining 
room ceiling and walls. The investigator thought that this should be in addition to the £500 
RSA had already paid Mr and Mrs F for the trouble and upset the matter had caused them.
RSA accepted the thoughts of the investigator and agreed to repair the work in addition to 
the sum of £500 they had already paid to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept what the investigator suggested, nor the offer made by RSA and 
asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F made a claim to RSA in February 2019 for an escape of water from a toilet as 
part of the home emergency policy. RSA arranged for the repairs to be completed.
Mr and Mrs F made a second claim on their home emergency policy now with company A. 
The claim was made because the toilet that was the subject of the 2019 claim wouldnt flush. 
Company A provided a report and said the flush pipe had come apart and the whole toilet 
pan was broken. The report said this couldnt be repaired, and the whole vanity unit, 
floorboards and ceiling below the bathroom needed to be ripped out. Company A said it 
wasnt safe to put the new toilet in until the floorboards were replaced and suggested 
claiming for this under the buildings insurance with L as the home emergency policy only 
covers temporary repairs.
In response to the report from A, company L obtained a report from B to assess what was 
covered under the building insurance policy Mr and Mrs F held with them. The report 
concluded the leak in 2019 caused damage to the vanity unit, damage to walls and ceilings 
under the bathroom was evident and continuing, the floorboards werent rotten but new 
screws and holes would be needed, and that mould that was visible was more likely caused 
by condensation rather than the repairs carried out in 2019.
RSA also inspected the damage at Mr and Mrs Fs home in March 2020 and concluded the 
toilet was leaking from the flush cone when flushed, the floors were rotten due to the leak 
and the fixing screws were hanging out. Their notes say the vinyl floor was bubbling up, the 
cistern had been installed on an angle, and the flush pipe and flooring needed to be replaced 
before any work be carried out.
The crux of this complaint is whether the work RSA carried out in 2019 was completed 
correctly and if it wasnt, did it cause further damage to the property. I am satisfied the report 
from B provides a comprehensive assessment of the damage, includes pictures of the actual 
damage caused and provides a reasonable assessment of what damage was likely to have 
been caused by the work RSA completed in 2019. Ive also seen the report RSA provided 
highlights the cistern, which they fitted in 2019, was fitted at an angle which suggests the 
work may not have been completed correctly. So, taking these two reports into account, I am 
that it is likely some of the damage was caused by the repair in 2019 not being completed 
correctly. 
I wouldve expected RSA to take this into account when reviewing the claim as L sent the 
report to them. I would then expect RSA to have settled the claim quickly and fairly based on 
the information it had available; the report from B and their own report. In this case RSA 
didnt initially accept the repairs in 2019 caused the problems Mr and Mrs F experienced in 
2020 but made a payment of £500 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience caused.
I consider the offer made by RSA wasnt fair. In my opinion, it provided a reasonable amount 
of compensation for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs F suffered when they didnt have a working toilet while the claim was being dealt with, but it didnt address the cost of a new 
toilet, possible work to the floorboards and the redecoration costs. I consider RSA should 
pay for the required remedial work in addition to the £500 inconvenience payment. Im 
satisfied this is a fairer way of resolving the complaint.
I can see that after the investigator looked into things and told RSA he thought they were 
responsible for some of the damage, RSA confirmed they wanted to amend their offer to 
resolve the complaint. They said that the £500 already paid should be considered a goodwill 
payment for the inconvenience the matter has caused Mr and Mrs F, but in addition they 
agreed to pay for:
a replacement toilet,
someone to lift the vinyl and pay for repairs to the floorboards if required, and
the redecoration of the dining room ceiling and walls.
RSA agreed that Mr and Mrs F should obtain estimates for this work and send them on.
I consider this is a fair and reasonable remedy as it provides a significant payment for the 
inconvenience of Mr and Mrs F having restricted use of their only toilet and it takes into 
account RSA will pay for the damage caused by the repair they carried out in 2019.
Mr and Mrs F say it doesnt deal with the damage to the vanity unit. RSA say the vanity unit 
was more likely to have been damaged when the original leak happened in 2019. The report 
from B is quite clear in this regard and says, The initial damage from the first leak would 
have caused damage to the vanity {unit}. As I have previously explained, the home 
emergency policy didnt cover damage to items, it only provided for emergency repairs. 
Damage to items may be covered by the buildings insurance Mr and Mrs F had at the time, 
however I dont consider RSA was ever responsible for the damage to the vanity unit as this 
damage most likely happened before RSA did any repairs. So, I wont be asking RSA to pay 
for the repair or replacement of the vanity unit.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has 
already paid Mr and Mrs F £500 for the distress and inconvenience they suffered, and I 
wont ask them to pay more for this. However, for the reasons above, I have decided Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should also pay for:
a replacement toilet,
someone to lift the vinyl and pay to repair the floorboards if required, and
redecoration of the dining room ceiling and walls. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman