DRN-3341524
The complaint
Mr N complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided lending that was unaffordable. He was also unhappy about the 
lack of support from Everyday Loans after he made the lender aware he was experiencing 
difficulty meeting the contractual monthly repayments.
What happened
Mr N took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date 
takenAmount TermMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
19/8/2019 £4,00036 
months£262.74 £9,458.64 outstanding 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided the loan. She mainly said that the lenders checks showed the repayment for 
this loan, alongside Mr Ns existing monthly credit commitments, represented a significant 
proportion of Mr Ns monthly income which wasnt likely to be sustainable for him over the 
loan term. She also set out in some detail her reasons for saying that Everyday Loans had 
over-stated Mr Ns actual income as shown on his bank statements and not allowed for all 
his normal regular spending apparent on his bank statements  which Everyday Loans had 
seen during the loan application process. 
Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans should do to put things 
right. 
Everyday Loans hasnt responded to our adjudicators view other than by way of an 
acknowledgement to confirm it has received it. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it 
comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. As 
we havent heard back from Everyday Loans and the deadline for responses has passed, 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. I've looked at the 
complaint afresh and having thought about everything, I agree with our adjudicator and Im 
upholding this complaint. Heres why I say this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr N about his income and housing costs. It also did its own credit 
check to understand Mr Ns credit history and see what he was paying for his existing credit 
commitments. It saw bank statements for two of his current accounts.
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Ns average monthly income was around £1,652 based on an 
average pay figure it worked out from looking at payslip details plus additional benefits that it 
saw on his bank statements were paid into his account. Everyday Loans also relied on 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Ns likely expenditure and it included an 
extra buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional expenses. 
After seeing his existing credit commitments, based on all this information, Everyday Loans 
said Mr N shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan as he should still 
have had around £206 spare cash left each month after paying for this loan. 
Like our adjudicator I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr N had enough disposable income each 
month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised this 
was contradicted by what it saw in the other information it had gathered. 
Everyday Loans saw that Mr N was repaying three credit cards and it wouldve been aware 
that in order to make any meaningful inroads into repaying his credit card debt hed need to 
make more than the minimum monthly repayments it seems to have allowed for  and the 
bank statements it saw showed Mr N appeared to be trying to do this by making payments 
over and above the minimum contractual amount. It was also apparent that the average 
expenditure figures it relied on didnt reflect the regular payments Mr N was, in reality, paying 
out of his bank accounts. As well as this, his average monthly income based on what his 
bank statements showed was around £160 less that the figure Everyday Loans relied on in 
its affordability calculations.  
So I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account what all the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Ns overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Everyday Loans to make a fair 
decision to lend, particularly as it knew that Mr N intended to use most of the money to cover 
a large one-off expense  so it would be adding to his overall indebtedness.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that it shouldve been apparent that Mr N didnt have 
the amount of disposable income that Everyday Loans calculated. And bearing in mind the 
repayment of this loan on top of the debt Everyday Loans saw Mr N was already responsible 
for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr N needed to pay a significant proportion of his income towards credit - around a third by my reckoning. In my opinion, as a responsible 
lender, Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr N would likely struggle to repay this loan 
with this level of income committed just to repaying debt  especially bearing in mind the 
36 month loan term.
So thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think 
Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mr N. So it shouldnt have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr N hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Everyday 
Loans acted unfairly towards Mr N in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr N to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any more than this. 
So I've set out below what Everyday Loans should do to put things right.
Putting things right
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr N received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr N should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr N having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr N bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ns credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So Everyday 
Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ns credit file 
regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman