DRN-3159913
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 to
protect a mortgage. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him and the late Mrs S the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
The PPI covered Mr S only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time it was 
sold.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding the policy to their mortgage. Mr S has told us he wasnt aware the PPI had 
been added to the mortgage. I cant be certain what was said at the time the PPI was sold, 
and theres limited information available from both Lloyds and Mr S. But this isnt unusual 
considering how long ago the sale took place, and that Lloyds arent required to keep this 
type of information indefinitely. With the information available I dont have enough to find that 
Lloyds didnt present the policy as optional, or that Mr S didnt choose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr S 
has sold us he was self-employed when he took the policy and had other means of making 
his repayments, so he didnt need the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
the other means Mr S had available and did not limit claims for people that were self-
employed, 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to, or limits on the PPI cover, and he seems to have had a need for the
cover. So, I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Mr S chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if something went
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI
would have put Mr S off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said, including that he wasnt aware he had the
policy, and if he had been, he would have made a claim on it. But this doesnt change my 
decision as I dont have enough to say Mr S wouldnt have been aware of the policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman