DRN-3536452
The complaint
Mr B, through a company 6, has complained about how Covea Insurance plc dealt with a 
claim under a commercial insurance policy.
For ease, I will only refer to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B had a flood at a property he owned. Covea carried out repairs. Shortly after this, Mr B 
contacted Covea because the walls had damp issues. Covea said the damp was the result 
of pre-existing issues.
Mr B complained. Covea reviewed its files, including a previous claim. It said that during the 
previous claim similar problems had arisen with a wall at the property. It had accepted a 
damp membrane should have been installed, so had then carried out the work to do this. 
However, its records didnt show what measures had been installed to reinstate the property. 
Having looked at the history and that there seemed to be no pre-existing damp-proofing in 
the area now affected, it appeared the damp-proofing wasnt effective in all areas. It said 
further investigations were required and agreed with Mr Bs suggestion that an independent 
surveyor be appointed to suggest an appropriate remedy.
When Mr B complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
Covea should deal with the damp issue. After some further discussion between our 
investigator and both parties, she said Covea should appoint an independent surveyor. Our 
investigator attempted to agree next steps with Covea, but Covea didnt respond. So, the 
complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 12 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The main issue is whether the damp found should be covered as part of the claim. Both 
parties have previously indicated they think an independent surveyor should be appointed to 
resolve this. Having looked at what happened, I agree that is a sensible way forward, as I 
think this is the most appropriate way to identify the cause of the issues. However, no 
agreement seemed to be reached on how an independent surveyor should be appointed and 
as Covea stopped responding to our investigator, Covea didnt confirm whether it would now 
be willing to appoint a surveyor or how this would be done. So, this is what Ive focussed on.
I currently intend to require Covea to identify three independent surveyors and provide their 
details to Mr B. Mr B should choose one of the surveyors. The surveyor will be jointly 
appointed by Covea and Mr B, but Covea will pay the cost of the surveyor. Both parties 
should provide the surveyor with evidence related to the damp found at the property. The 
surveyor can then inspect the damp and related damage and report on what Covea needs to 
deal with in order to bring the claim to a close, including providing a scope of works, if 
relevant. Both parties will be bound by the independent surveyors findings.
Im aware that Mr B has asked that any surveyor report is compliant with the civil procedure 
rules. However, as were an informal alternative to the courts, I dont intend to require this. 
Ive also thought about compensation. Mr B wanted compensation, including because he 
said he had planned to sell the property. However, I dont think its possible to say whether 
or when the property would have sold. Mr T also had tenants in the property who continued 
to pay rent. In the circumstances, Im unable to say whether Covea should have dealt with 
the damp and damage. However, if the independent surveyor finds that Covea needs to deal 
with any of the damp or related damage, it should pay Mr B £150 compensation to 
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the works not being 
completed correctly.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 9 June 2022.
Mr B replied and asked me to make specific reference to the damp proof membrane and that 
Covea should install this in order to make a lasting and effective repair. He also provided 
emails from 2014 that he said was Coveas surveyor about the previous claim and the damp 
proof membrane installed at that time.
Covea didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and to say it should be resolved in the 
way I described in my provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the response from 
Mr B. The evidence he has provided is the type of evidence he can provide to the 
independent surveyor to show the previous condition of the property and the measures 
previously installed by Covea. The independent surveyor needs to assess the damp and 
damage and, if relevant, decide what Covea needs to do to return the property to the 
condition it was in before the claim and to provide a lasting and effective repair.
Putting things right
Covea should provide Mr B with the details of three independent surveyors so he can 
choose one and a full assessment of the damage can be carried out. The independent 
surveyor should assess the damp and the damage and, if relevant, decide what Covea 
needs to do to return the property to the condition it was in before the claim and to provide a 
lasting and effective repair. Covea should pay the cost of the independent surveyor.
Covea should also pay £150 compensation if the independent surveyor finds that Covea 
needs to deal with the damp or related damage.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Provide Mr B with the details of three independent surveyors so he can choose one and 
a full assessment of the damage can be carried out. Both parties will be bound by the 
independent surveyors findings. 
Pay the cost of the surveyor.Pay £150 compensation if the independent surveyor finds that Covea needs to deal with 
the damp or related damage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 6 to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman