DRN-3216868
The complaint
Miss M complains about Starling Bank Limited and their decision not to process her 
chargeback claim.
What happened
Miss M holds a current account with Starling. In February 2021, Miss M used this account to 
make a payment through a third-party company, who Ill refer to as T. Miss M says this 
transaction was cancelled and T agreed to refund to the payment back into her Starling 
account. But Miss M says she didnt receive this refund, so she attempted to raise a 
chargeback with Starling in March.
Starling considered the evidence Miss M provided which she felt supported her chargeback 
claim against the information T sent to them defending the claim. And having done so, they 
decided not to process a chargeback claim through the card providers scheme rules. Miss 
M was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss M didnt think Starling acted fairly when deciding not to progress her chargeback claim. 
She thought this decision left her significantly out of pocket. So, she wanted Starling to 
ensure a refund of her original payment was processed and compensate her for the upset 
shed been caused.
Starling responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd followed the correct 
process before deciding not to progress the chargeback. And they explained through this 
process, they were unable to verify that Miss Ms transaction had been cancelled and that a 
refund was due. So, they didnt think there was enough evidence to hit the threshold set by 
the card issuer to qualify for a chargeback to be progressed. Because of this, they didnt 
think they had done anything wrong by declining the claim and didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Miss M remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained banks such as 
Starling arent obligated to raise a chargeback claim on behalf of a customer. And she was 
satisfied from the evidence provided by Starling that the claim was likely to be unsuccessful. 
So, she thought Starling had acted fairly and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree. She thought shed provided evidence that shows T had agreed to 
refund her transaction. So, she maintained her view that the chargeback shouldve been 
raised by Starling and that it wouldve been successful. As Miss M didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss M. I appreciate Miss Ms 
dispute with T is for a significant amount of money. And I understand the financial impact not 
receiving this refund would have on Miss M and why shed feel frustrated as she doesnt 
believe she received the service she intended to pay for. But my decision focuses on Miss 
Ms complaint about Starling, not T. So, it doesnt consider the actions of T or their error in 
not processing a refund Miss M says was promised. 
It instead focuses solely on the service Starling provided to Miss M when deciding not to 
progress her chargeback claim. And its important to note that Starling were under no 
obligation to progress Miss Ms chargeback claim, nor is it a right of Miss Ms to be able to 
make one under the card issuers scheme rules. So, Starlings decision to decline the claim 
alone doesnt mean theyve acted unfairly.
So, my decision focuses on whether Starling considered the information Miss M and T 
provided to them fairly before deciding to decline the claim. And in order to do this, Ive 
thought about Starlings decision that the claim was likely to be unsuccessful and considered 
whether I think theyve reached this conclusion fairly. And in this situation, I think they have.
Im aware Miss Ms provided evidence she says shows T agreeing to refund the amount she 
paid to them after the transaction was cancelled. And Ive considered all of this 
documentation shes provided.
Ive seen all of this information was also provided to Starling to consider as part of the 
chargeback. But Ive also seen information T sent to Starling directly, where theyre unable 
to verify the transaction was cancelled and that a refund should be due.
Without this verification, I dont think Starling were able to evidence the transaction had been 
cancelled as this was disputed by T. And so, I think Starling made a fair decision not to 
pursue the chargeback claim on this basis as they had no obligation to do so. And so, I dont 
think they needed to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss M was hoping for. And I recognise she feels she has 
evidence that shows T agreeing to refund the payment after the transaction was cancelled. I 
appreciate discovering T disputed this with Starling will be upsetting to Miss T. But I dont 
think Starling are responsible for this dispute or the information T provided to them. I think 
theyve acted fairly by considering this information when deciding not to pursue a 
chargeback claim. Any issues Miss M has with T should be pursued with T directly.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Starling Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman