DRN-3517716
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have not provided him with 
information he has requested about how many times he has been entered into the prize 
draw and for which months.
 
What happened
Mr G holds a mortgage with Halifax. 
As a Halifax mortgage holder, he registered for Halifaxs monthly prize draw. 
One of the terms and conditions of entry to the draw is that the customer also holds a current 
account with at least £1500 a month being paid in.
To ensure entry, Mr G opened a current account. 
However, Mr G was concerned that he may not have been entered into the Halifax mortgage 
prize draw as he opened his current account  which is a requirement of entry  after 
registering for the prize draw. 
Mr G asked Halifax to confirm he had been entered for each of the monthly draws. 
In their final response, Halifax confirmed that a customer can register for the draws at any 
time and their name would be entered int the draw for each month that they met the 
qualifying conditions. 
They said there is no reason why Mr G would not have been entered as he meets the 
qualifying conditions, but that they werent able to provide information about which specific 
draws Mr G had been entered into.   
Mr G was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. He also mentioned 
that he feels the results of the draws may be skewed in favour of Halifax employees and 
their families and he thinks that the terms and conditions have been changed since he first 
registered. 
One of our investigators looked into it but she didnt think that Halifax had anything wrong.  
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Halifax have confirmed that Mr Gs online banking account shows that he is registered for 
the prize draws both for mortgages and savings. He can see this himself by viewing his 
online banking. They have told us that as long as he is registered, he will automatically be 
entered for every month that he is eligible. It doesnt matter that he opened his current 
account after registering for the draw, as his eligibility will ensure entry.  
Halifax have also explained that:
The draw is independently monitored by KPMG, and drawn by automated process, 
so that there can be no conflict of interest. 
a list of winners is published each month and is available in branch but unfortunately, 
they cant provide the confirmation that Mr G requires of his individual monthly entry. 
Halifax employees are not permitted to enter and if an award was unfairly obtained, it 
would not be paid. 
So, Halifax have provided reassurance that there is no reason why Mr G would not have 
been automatically entered and I have no reason to believe that he hasnt been entered. 
Although I can understand why Mr G wants confirmation of his individual entry, I cant say 
that Halifax have done anything wrong in not being able to provide it. The terms and 
conditions published on the website clearly state that:
 
In all matters relating to the Halifax Mortgage Prize Draw our decision is final, and we dont 
have to respond to questions.
Mr G has raised a concern that the terms and conditions have been changed since he first 
registered for the draw. I havent seen any evidence of this, so I am unable to agree with Mr 
G here. 
   
In view of the above, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman