DRN-3770370
The complaint
Mr A complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do 
enough to stop that happening or to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund three payments that he made on 26th and 
27th April 2022 in respect of a scam involving cryptocurrency. He had reached out to 
someone he discovered on social media. The person advised him to buy Bitcoin through a 
company Ill refer to as S, telling him she would take 20% of his profits. Before he 
transferred any money, Mr A made a number of checks; he sent a message to one of the 
brokers followers to see if she was genuine, he asked for a voice note to try to establish the 
broker was who she said she was and he asked for evidence of one of the brokers other 
clients having paid a release fee before receiving a refund.
Mr A was advised to open an account with Monzo and to transfer money to that account 
before making the payments to S from the Monzo account. He was advised to make 
payments to S before sending the money to the broker to be invested. The payments were 
online transfers which comprised of an initial deposit of £500, a £3,500 payment to release 
funds and a further £600 for late fee charges. 
When Mr A realised hed been the victim of a scam he contacted Monzo, but it said there 
was nothing it could do to retrieve the money as it had been sent to an account that Mr A 
held in his own name with S. Mr A wasnt happy and so he complained. Monzo accepted 
hed been the victim of a scam, but it maintained it was unable to refund the money hed lost 
because the fraudulent payments had been sent from the account he held with S.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service, but our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. She too accepted Mr A had been the victim of a scam but 
she didnt think the payments were so unusual that Monzo ought to have stepped in and 
asked more questions or stopped them altogether. And she didnt think there was anything 
else it should have done to stop the payments or to secure a refund.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
thinks Monzo should refund the money hes lost because he was the victim of fraud. Hes 
explained he's under financial pressure and owes his previous employer £1,800.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the payments were authorised by Mr A. This is because they were 
made by him using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by Monzo. Mr A 
believes hes entitled to a refund because, even though he authorised the payments, he was 
the victim of a scam and Monzo should have either done more to stop that happening or to 
help him get the money back.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered this, and I am persuaded that at the relevant time the broker was 
operating a scam. But, although Mr A didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the payments 
went to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Monzo has an obligation to 
be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to 
consider whether Monzo ought to have intervened to warn Mr A when he tried to make the 
payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Monzo to 
intervene with a view to protecting its customers from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Monzos systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr A 
normally ran his account and I dont think they were. He had very recently opened his Monzo 
account and so there was no account history for Monzo to assess whether or not the 
disputed payments were unusual. However, Ive considered the nature of the payments, 
both individually and collectively, and I dont think they were suspicious or concerning. So, I 
dont think they should have triggered Monzos fraud systems.
Overall, Im satisfied Monzo took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr A lost 
such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Monzo is 
to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman