DRN-3440917
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the increase in premium she faced when renewing her pet 
insurance with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA).
What happened
The background to Mrs Hs complaint has been given by our investigator in his view, so I 
wont repeat it here in detail, but briefly stated, Mrs H has a dog that Ill refer to as N. Shes 
had a Classic 8000 lifetime pet insurance policy with RSA for a number of years. This 
covers N up to £8,000 per condition. Every year her premiums have increased. At her 
renewal in December 2021, the premium increased from £1,425 to £2,244.91, an increase of 
£819.91, or 58%.
Mrs H complained to RSA about the extent of this increase as she had only made a small 
claim on the policy in the previous policy year. She has said that what was supposed to be a 
policy for Ns life will no longer be for her life as Mrs H cant afford to pay the significantly 
increased premium to maintain her existing level of cover. Shes therefore had to switch her 
cover to a Classic 4000 policy that only provides £4,000 worth of cover per condition. 
Mrs H has said shes willing to pay a proportionate increase in premium, and suggested 
10%, but she would also want her £8,000 per condition limit to be reinstated.
RSA has said that the new premium for the continuation of her existing cover was correctly 
calculated taking into account its underwriting criteria. It explained to Mrs H the reasons why 
premiums can increase each year, sometimes significantly. It also referred to a previous 
complaint that Mrs H had made to this service in 2020 following a significant increase in her 
premium at the December 2020 renewal, when her premium increased from £916.80 to 
£1,425. It referred to the view of this service in relation to that complaint.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with RSAs response to her complaint, so she brought it to this 
service. Our investigators view was that Mrs Hs premium had been calculated accurately 
and fairly based on RSAs underwriting criteria, and that Mrs H had been made aware of the 
significant increases in premium she might face as N gets older.
Mrs H isnt happy with our investigators view and has asked that that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive considered what our investigator has said in his view of Mrs Hs complaint and I agree 
with what he has said. This service cant tell an insurer how to price its policies. Its a matter 
for an insurer what risks its willing to take and the price it considers it needs to charge to 
cover those risks. RSA has explained the factors that are likely to lead to an increase in 
premiums for pet insurance policies. In its renewal letters sent in November 2020 and 2021 
under the heading Why do pets cost more to insure as they get older it specifically states: 
Unfortunately, once a pet has been taken ill, in general they're more likely to get ill 
again. That's why, if a claim is paid, the price you will pay next year can double.. 
How much [renewal prices] go up is different for everyone and depends on things like 
your pet's breed, their age and health, and there is no limit to how much your renewal 
price can increase over time.
Ive looked at the claims information provided by RSA. I can see from this that Mrs Hs 
premium increased every year, but by a higher percentage at renewals following a year 
when a claim had been made. For example:
A claim for £613.80 in policy year 2018-19 contributed to a 65% increase in premium 
from £555.51 to £916.80 for policy year 2019-20.
A claim for £431.20 in policy year 2019-20 contributed to a 71.8% increase from 
£916.80 to £1,574.99 in policy year 2020-21 (this was reduced to £1,425 with a loyalty 
bonus).
A claim for £521 in policy year 2020-21 contributed to 57.5% increase from £1,425 to 
£2,244 for policy year 2021-22.
Mrs H has now reduced her cover level so her 2021-22 premium has reduced to £1,690.47.
The significant premium increases reflect RSAs view that it is not only the increasing age of 
a pet that is relevant when assessing future risk and therefore future premiums. Previous 
claims are also relevant in assessing risk as past claims are highly predictive of future 
claims, particularly for ongoing conditions.
Ive looked at the complaint Mrs H made in 2020 following the significant increase in her 
premium for policy year 2020-21. Our investigator upheld this complaint on the ground that 
Mrs H was caused upset because RSA hadnt made her sufficiently aware of the significant 
premium increases she could expect with a lifetime policy. She considered that RSA 
should put that right. RSA offered Mrs H £250 which she accepted.
Following that view from this service, and also the information provided to Mrs H by RSA in 
her recent renewal letters, I dont consider that Mrs H can continue to rely on a lack of 
awareness of how her premiums might increase. I consider that her expectations have been 
managed.
Having seen the premium increases RSA has made since the inception of the policy, I can 
see that these are influenced by the same factors that would apply to any other customer. Its 
risk models take into account claims previously made and that the likelihood of further claims 
being made is high. Under a lifetime policy, any condition requiring treatment would remain 
covered for as long as the policy continues in place, which presents a risk to the insurer. I 
dont consider that RSA has treated Mrs H differently to any other customer with the same 
risk profile. 
So whilst I can sympathise with Mrs H, and understand how upsetting it must be to be faced 
with premiums that make cover for N at the preferred level unaffordable, I cant say that she 
has been treated unfairly by RSA, nor that she wasnt fully aware that her premiums could 
escalate, potentially significantly, as N gets older. Im therefore not going to ask RSA to adjust Mrs Hs premium or her level of cover as that 
would be telling RSA what it should charge to cover the risks that it has agreed to cover, and 
that isnt something this service can do. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman