DRN-3325016
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she took from Vauxhall Finance plc under a consumer hire 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality. Specifically, the electronic key failed to work on 
multiple occasions.  
What happened
In August 2020 Miss H entered into a 48-month consumer hire agreement with Vauxhall 
Finance. She was to pay nearly £250 a month for the 48-month term. If Miss H wanted to 
end the agreement early, she would have to pay all the hire payments, with a 50% discount 
if she ended the agreement within three years. 
Miss H says that, from about February 2021, she began to experience problems when the 
cars electronic key wasnt recognised. That meant she could not lock or unlock the car and 
could not start it. She took the car to a garage, and it appeared to have fixed the problem, 
but it recurred on several further occasions. Miss H says that on one occasion a Key 
Absent message appeared with a further message to turn off the engine. She became 
concerned for her safety and lost confidence in the car. 
The car was inspected and left with technicians who tried to find out the reasons for the 
problems Miss H was experiencing. They were however unable to replicate the issues she 
had reported, even after driving the car for several days.
Miss H complained to Vauxhall Finance, but it said that it did not believe there was anything 
wrong with the car. Neither it nor the garage had been able to replicate the fault that Miss H 
had reported. Miss H referred the matter to this service and, shortly after that, ended the hire 
agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, she had to pay more than £4,000 to do so. 
She said that the representative who collected the car from her and similar problems to 
those she had reported.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He did not believe however that he 
could fairly conclude that there was anything wrong with the car. He noted that it had not 
been possible to recreate the fault Miss H had described. Miss H did not accept the 
investigators view and asked that an ombudsman consider the case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to disbelieve Miss H when she says that she was, on several occasions 
from February 2021, unable to lock, unlock or start the car. She has provided photographic 
evidence of dashboard messages indicating that the key was not present at times when she 
says it was. 
Nevertheless, and despite several inspections, neither Vauxhall Finance nor the garage was 
able to recreate the fault, even after testing the car for a number of days. 
Miss H says that the representative who collected the car experienced the same problem 
that she described. Vauxhall Finance says that it has no comments about that on its records. 
Whilst I would not necessarily expect a collection agent to comment in detail on a cars 
condition, I think an agent might have reported an inability to start the car. 
I have also obtained a copy of the inspection report prepared after the car was returned to 
Vauxhall Finance. That indicates that, apart from some scratches to the wheels, the car was 
returned in good condition, and all the features were working. They included the alarm, 
central locking, immobiliser and remote central locking  all of which are directly linked to 
functioning of the electronic key. 
In the circumstances, I agree with the investigators conclusions. I am not persuaded that the 
car was faulty. I do not therefore need to consider Miss Hs losses here, although I note that 
she was provided with a courtesy car and that a dispute she had with the provider of that car 
over the  insurance cover has been resolved.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Vauxhall Finance plc to do 
anything more to resolve Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman