DRN-3877965
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as N complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE turned
down a claim on its commercial vehicle fleet insurance policy.
Miss W, a director of N, has complained on Ns behalf.
What happened
N took out a motor fleet policy with Great Lakes. During the policy year, one of Ns trucks hit
a tree. The damage from the accident was to a crane which was fitted to the truck. Because
of this, N claimed on the policy with Great Lakes for the damage to the crane.
Great Lakes reviewed the claim and turned it down. It said that as N hadnt told it the truck
had a crane on it, the policy didnt cover it. N didnt think this was fair and complained. Great
Lakes reviewed the complaint and said if it had been told a crane was fitted to the truck it
would have affected the risk it agreed to cover as well as the additional value of the crane.
And if it had known about this at the time of the quote there would have been an additional
premium to pay.
N didnt agree with Great Lakess response to the complaint and so referred it here. It said
the proposal form for the policy did not ask about whether there was a crane or other 
adaptions to the trucks. It also said it had not needed to declare the cranes on previous 
policies it had for similar vehicles.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that
while Great Lakes may have charged an additional premium, it hadnt said what the premium
would be. Because of this, our investigator recommended Great Lakes pay the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said N had deliberately or recklessly not told it about the crane
being fitted to the truck. And because of this, it thought it had acted fairly by just declining the
claim rather than avoiding the policy, as it thought it was entitled to under the Insurance Act 
2015.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 January 2023 where I said:
When N bought its policy, it had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Great Lakes to take any action at all it
needs to show N didnt do this and that it made whats known as a qualifying breach. Under 
the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because it would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
Great Lakes said N bought its policy through a broker who provided a completed proposal
form. The information provided via the broker included the nature of Ns business, along with
the registration and type of vehicles needing cover, along with the level of cover required for
each vehicle and claims history.
Great Lakes has said none of the information provided made it aware the truck had a crane
fitted to it. Great Lakes also said as the value of the crane is significantly more than the truck
it was attached to, it should have been told about it, along with the higher value for the truck.
N said it told Great Lakes its business was haulage which mainly involves timber and that
this should have put it on notice to ask more questions if it wanted to know anything else.
And if it had done, it would have known about the crane. From reviewing the proposal
information Im satisfied N didnt disclose the truck involved in the accident had a crane
attached to it. And while Great Lakes could have asked additional questions, Im not
persuaded N disclosed enough information to make it aware it may need to. Also, as the
crane attached to the truck increases the value of the truck significantly, Im satisfied this is
material information N should have disclosed. It follows that Im therefore satisfied N didnt
give a fair presentation of the risk when insuring this truck.
For Great Lakes to take any action at all though it needs to show it would have either not
insured N, or done so, but on different terms. Great Lakes has said it would have covered
Ns truck with a crane on it but would have charged an additional premium. N disputes this
and said when it let Great Lakes know about the trucks with cranes on, no additional
premium was charged. Great Lakes also hasnt provided anything to show what difference in
premium it would have charged. Its said it due to the type of policy there isnt a defined
underwriting criteria it can provide and that its not possible to know what premium it would
have charged previously. Instead, its said Ns failure to give a fair presentation of risk was
deliberate or reckless and therefore said it could have avoided the policy but instead just
decided to decline the claim.
The remedies available to Great Lakes depend on whether a qualifying breach is either
deliberate or reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. However as Great Lakes hasnt
shown Ns breach is a qualifying one, its not able to rely on any of the remedies within the
Act. So, while Great Lakes is right when saying what it can do if a qualifying breach is
deliberate or reckless, it hasnt shown Ns breach is a qualifying one. Therefore, under the
Act Great Lakes isnt able to take any action at all.
For that reason, Im satisfied Great Lakes hasnt dealt with Ns claim in a fair and reasonable
way. Therefore, to put things right Great Lakes needs to pay Ns claim in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
N didnt respond to my provisional decision. Great Lakes responded and didnt accept it. In 
summary it said my decision was mistaken that an additional premium would be charged. It 
also said that as this is a commercial vehicle fleet policy, its not possible to provide an 
underwriting criteria as there isnt one. Great Lakes also said it wasnt possible to unwind 
what it would have done when adding the truck to the policy as there are several factors to 
be considered, including market conditions at the time, and that on this policy there had 
been multiple midterm adjustments and that the other vehicles had been undervalued too. 
Great Lakes also said it wasnt fair to expect full indemnity to be given with deduction of the 
amount which has been underpaid. Great Lakes then said that a proportionate settlement 
would mean that as 0% of the premium had been paid for the crane, then 0% of the claim 
would be paid, as the claim only related to the crane which was fitted to the vehicle. It also 
said the policy excluded the claim for the crane and so it wouldnt be covered under the 
policy anyway.  
I asked our investigator to respond to Great Lakes and acknowledge that I understood that 
due to the nature of these policies its difficult to show exactly what it would have done 
differently. However, it hadnt sufficiently evidenced that it would have acted differently, and 
as this was a requirement within the Act, I therefore was inclined to maintain the position in 
my provisional decision. I also asked our investigator to explain that Great Lakes hadnt been clear about where in the policy it said this claim wouldnt be covered and that, from the 
information on file, the crane appeared to be part of the truck. 
Great Lakes responded and explained that the crane was not part of the truck and would 
have been fitted after the truck was built. Great Lakes also explained it didnt think N 
purchased the truck from new and, when it was added to the policy, N hadnt told Great 
Lakes about the crane. For this reason, Great Lakes thought N had failed to disclose the full 
details of the truck and not made a fair presentation of the risk in line with the policy terms 
and conditions.
I asked our investigator to let both parties know Great Lakes hadnt been clear about which 
term in the policy meant the claim wouldnt be paid. And as Great Lakes hadnt shown what 
it would have done differently if the crane had been declared, I was still inclined to uphold 
this complaint as Great Lakes hadnt shown it was fair and reasonable to decline it due to N 
not giving a fair presentation of the risk. However, I altered the outcome and said it would be 
for Great Lakes to consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.  
Great Lakes responded and disagreed that it hadnt been clear but didnt say which term 
applied. It reiterated that there is a duty of disclosure and fair presentation upon N in the 
policy and that duty had been breached.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Great Lakess comments in response to my provisional decision. But Im not 
satisfied its shown its acted fairly and reasonably in turning down this claim. I would like to 
assure Great Lakes that while Im not responding to every point raised, I have considered 
them. However, in my view, none of the comments Great Lakes has provided sufficiently 
show it would have acted differently, had N declared the vehicle had a crane fitted to it. 
I feel it may help to explain that the reason for asking Great Lakes to show what it would 
have done differently is to satisfy the requirement under the Act to show that Ns failure to 
give a fair presentation of the risk was a qualify breach. And while there may be terms in the 
policy which also refer to a fair presentation, the relevant consideration here is the Act. 
Depending on what Great Lakes would have done, but for the failure to give a fair 
presentation of the risk, is key to understanding what action Great Lakes is entitled to take 
under the Act.  
So, while I acknowledge Great Lakess response and understand its not easy to show what 
it would have done differently. Its not shown it would have done anything differently, and 
therefore its not able to rely on the remedies under the Act, as it hasnt shown Ns breach 
was a qualifying one. For these reasons Im satisfied Great Lakes hasnt dealt with Ns claim 
fairly and reasonably by declining it for a failure to provide a fair presentation of risk under 
the Act. Therefore, Great Lakes needs to consider Ns claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions under the policy and not decline the claim for failure to give a fair 
presentation. For completeness, this also means that it cannot rely on the term within the 
policy which says the insured needs to make a fair presentation of the risk.  My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision. My final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to consider Ns claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman