DRN-4071687
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund over £155,000 she lost to 
a romance scam beginning in May 2020.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mrs F fell victim to a romance scam after she struck up a 
relationship with a scammer (M) through an online dating website. 
Mrs F and M spoke regularly and she started to confide in him. M said he had moved to Iran 
for work as he was a private intelligence officer for the British Government. He then began 
asking Mrs F to send money for various things, such as paying his agent so money can be 
sent to his ex-wife to pay for his daughters school trip. 
Over the space of five months, Mrs F made the following payments from her Santander 
account for various different reasons given by M, including loans for an investment, money 
for flights home as well as bailing him out of prison after he said hed been arrested:
Date Payee AmountMethod of payment 
used   
13/05/2020 Crowd2biz 25,000.00 Faster payment
13/05/2020 Crowd2biz 25,000.00 Faster payment
18/05/2020 Crowd2biz 20,000.00 Faster payment
18/05/2020 Crowd2biz 20,000.00 Faster payment
19/05/2020 Crowd2biz 10,000.00 Faster payment
07/06/2020 Coinmama 2,625.00 Card Payment 
11/10/2020 Bizznic 22,980.00 Faster payment
12/10/2020 Margaret Asare 3,000.00 International 
payment
12/10/2020 Margaret Asare 25.00 Transaction fees
14/10/2020 Margaret Asare 8,200.00 International 
payment
14/10/2020 Margaret Asare 25.00 Transaction fees
14/10/2020 Bizznic 19,000.00 Faster payment
Mrs F eventually realised she had been scammed after she carried out a reverse image 
search of the scammers photo, which showed it was someone else. She reported the scam 
to Santander and asked it to consider reimbursing the money she lost. However, the bank 
refused to do so. It reviewed Mrs Fs claim for the faster payments she made under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) but found her to be fully liable for the loss. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs F referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. He didnt think Mrs F had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payments were genuine as she had already been warned by the 
police and her other bank that she was being scammed. As a result, he didnt think an 
Effective Warning wouldve had a material effect on preventing the scam either, and also 
didnt consider Mrs F to be vulnerable. Mrs F disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs F has fallen victim to a cruel scam here. It also isnt disputed that 
she authorised the payments she made to the scammer. The payments were requested 
using her legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, starting with the faster payments, Ive considered whether Santander would be 
liable to refund any of the money Mrs F lost in line with its obligations under the CRM Code, 
of which Santander is a signatory. This applies to authorised push payments made to 
another UK domiciled account denominated in GBP. So, the Code would only apply to the 
faster payments listed in the table above; it doesnt apply to the international transactions. 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, both the bank and its customer have obligations. If it 
can be shown that the customer has met their requisite level of care, then they will receive 
full reimbursement. If the customer has not done this, then it is for the firm to show that it has 
met its obligations under the Code, one of which is the provision of an Effective Warning 
when the firm identifies an APP scam risk in a payment journey. If a firm has not met its 
obligations then it, subject to any liability by the bank which received the money, will be liable 
for 50% of the customers loss.
In this case, Santander has argued that exceptions to reimbursement under the Code apply 
such that none of the faster payments Mrs F made would qualify for reimbursement. It says 
Mrs F ignored an Effective Warning and that she lacked a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments or payee to be genuine, and therefore did not meet her requisite level of care. 
Did Mrs F have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?Having reviewed this aspect, Im satisfied there was enough going on from the outset that 
should have given Mrs F serious cause for concern that she was being scammed.
As part of the same scam (and prior to making payments from her Santander account), 
Mrs F was also making payments to the scammer from another account she held with a 
different bank. Her other bank asked her to come into branch on 12 May 2020 as it had 
concerns about the payments she was making. During this visit, the bank became 
concerned that Mrs F was falling victim to a scam, so it invoked the Banking Protocol and 
contacted the police. The police attended the branch and warned Mrs F that she was being 
scammed, and it was made clear that she would lose her money if she made any further 
payments. But while she didnt proceed to make the payment from her other bank account, 
she did then start making payments from her Santander account instead, despite being told 
by the police and her other bank that she was being scammed and would lose her money. 
I note that Mrs F also said she was sceptical about Ms dating profile when she first found it 
as it only had 2-3 photos and very limited information. However, despite having these 
concerns, she chose to trust the scammer anyway. Given she had been told by her other 
bank and the police that she was being scammed before she started making payments from 
her Santander account, Im not persuaded she had a reasonable basis for believing that M 
was genuine, or that the payments she was making to him were for legitimate reasons.
The stories Mrs F was being told by the scammer also became increasingly farfetched. He 
told her, for example, that he had received gold bars from an Iranian government official and 
that he had been arrested by the British government, so he needed money to be bailed out 
of prison. He also told her at one point that he had been shot and needed to be hospitalised. 
Mrs F no longer has a copy of any messages shared between her and the scammer, so its 
not possible to determine how she was led to be believe that any of these situations were 
plausible. But in any event, Im not persuaded she had cause for believing any of it to be 
genuine when she had been previously told it was a scam. Im therefore satisfied Santander 
has correctly demonstrated that this exception to reimbursement under the Code applies. 
Did Santander meet the standards expected of a firm under the CRM Code?
Even though I dont think Mrs F had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, she would still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if Santander 
didnt meet the standards it has agreed to adhere to under the CRM Code. 
The CRM code says that, where a firm identifies APP scam risks, it should provide Effective 
Warnings to their customers. It sets out that an Effective Warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an Effective Warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
It isnt in dispute that an APP scam risk was identified here, as Santander did issue warnings 
to Mrs F. But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that any of the warnings 
Santander gave could be considered an Effective Warning under the Code. However, 
despite this, Im not persuaded such a warning would have been effective in preventing the 
scam, even if Santander had provided one.
Section SF (Standards for Firms) under the CRM Code states:
The assessment of whether a Firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration 
of whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.As Ive set out above, Mrs F ignored warnings from both her other bank and the police when 
she was told she was being scammed and that she would lose her money. Therefore, I dont 
think any form of intervention or Effective Warning Santander could have provided wouldve 
had a material effect on preventing the scam, as it wouldnt have been as impactful as a 
warning given in person by the police.  
So, while I dont think Santander met its expected standards under the Code, I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to expect it to reimburse 50% of Mrs Fs loss for 
failing to provide an Effective Warning. Therefore, Im satisfied it has acted fairly by declining 
any reimbursement under the Code. 
Mrs Fs representatives have argued that she was vulnerable at the time as she was 
suffering from a bereavement and low mood, such that Santander should not be able to rely 
on any exceptions to reimbursement under the Code.
The CRM Code states that a customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be 
reasonable to expect that Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming 
victim of an APP scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they 
suffered. 
Ive considered the provisions of the CRM Code in this regard and what it says about 
vulnerability. And having done so, while I appreciate Mrs F would have no doubt been going 
through a very difficult time, Im not persuaded her circumstances can reasonably amount to 
her being deemed vulnerable under the Code, or that it would not have been reasonable to 
have expected her to protect herself. So, Im satisfied Santander can fairly rely on the 
exceptions to reimbursement.  
Payments not covered by the CRM Code
As part of the scam, Mrs F also made a card payment of £2,625 to a cryptocurrency account 
on 7 June 2020, as well as two international payments. There are certain circumstances 
outside of the CRM Code where a bank would still be expected to intervene and question its 
customer about payments if they are unusual or appear particularly out of character. 
However, Im not persuaded these payments were unusual enough to have warranted an 
intervention. So, I dont think there was any expectation on Santander to have intervened 
and questioned Mrs F about them. In any event, even if it had intervened, Im not persuaded 
this would have stopped Mrs F from making the payments in any event given she had 
already ignored warnings from the police. It follows that Santander cannot fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for the payments not covered under the Code either.
Recovery
Ive also considered whether Santander did enough to try and recover the money after the 
fraud was reported. I can see that Santander reached out to the receiving banks, though its 
not clear whether any response was received. However, Mrs F did not report the fraud until 
May 2021, which was over a year after she started sending money to the scammer. So, 
given the time that had passed, it seems highly unlikely that any funds would have remained 
in the receiving accounts for Santander to have recovered. 
In terms of the card payment, Mrs F also wouldnt have any reasonable prospect of 
succeeding in a chargeback claim either, seeing as it was used to purchase cryptocurrency, 
which she duly received. Therefore, I dont think there was anything more Santander 
couldve done to recover the money Mrs F lost in these circumstances. I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs F, and Im sorry she has lost her 
money to such a cruel scam; I dont underestimate the impact this must have had on her. 
But for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded Santander can fairly or reasonably be 
held liable for her loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman