DRN-1994458
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out the policy in 2004 by filling in and returning a postal application form.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs M says PPI was never mentioned and she wouldnt have known what it was. She says 
she has no recollection of buying PPI but says that she would never knowingly have taken 
the cover. Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form that Mrs M completed in 2004. 
There is a separate section for PPI with yes and no boxes to either request or decline the 
policy. Mrs M has ticked the yes box.
The sale was a long time ago and so its not surprising that Mrs M says she has no 
recollection of it. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mrs M would have known 
from the wording and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. It seems to me that she 
decided to buy it, knowing she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
RBS didnt advise Mrs M to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide Mrs M with enough information for her to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for her.
In the PPI section of the application form, it states see details enclosed. I think that Mrs M 
would have had some basic understanding of the policy  that it would cover her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about 
it.
Mrs Ms employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer than Mrs M would have received full pay for. And Mrs M has told us that 
she didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on.
 
Mrs M had a pre-existing medical condition. However, she has described this as a mild 
condition, not affecting her day to day life. So I dont think Mrs M would have ever thought 
shed need to make a claim on the policy for that condition.
Overall, I consider Mrs M had a need for the policy and could have benefited from it at what 
would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But, for the reasons mentioned above, Mrs M 
wasnt really affected by any of those things. Because I think she had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that more information would have caused her to 
change her mind. 
This means that RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But RBS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. 
Because RBS didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman