DRN-3104305
The complaint
Mrs B complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) declined a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy, after initially telling her she was covered.
What happened
Mrs B had a home insurance policy with Acromas. She renewed this each year, through an 
insurance intermediary. When she renewed her policy in July 2020, the policy provided 
buildings and contents cover, as well as limited accidental damage cover. 
In late September 2020 water from the bidet in Mrs Bs bathroom damaged her home. Mrs B 
called Acromas to claim under the policy, and Acromas told her she was covered for losses 
caused by escape of water. Acromas appointed contractors, who attended soon after to 
begin drying and other work. Acromas appointed a loss adjuster to visit and prepare a report. 
The loss adjuster visited in early October 2020, and reported that the damage was caused 
when Mrs B accidentally knocked the bidet tap so it was left running; that Mrs B discovered 
this when she returned home after being out for several hours and noticed her carpet was 
wet; that when Mrs B investigated, she found the tap was left running and she immediately 
turned it off.  The loss adjusters report also said that due to the water throughout two floors, 
the carpets would need removing and an extensive drying programme put into place. The 
report listed the remedial works needed, including replacing the built in hob and oven, an 
electrical test, replacement of carpet and skirting boards, removal of plasterwork, and 
decoration of ceilings and walls. 
After considering the loss adjusters report, Acromas thought this incident didnt meet the 
policys definition of an escape of water. It put the claim on hold while it investigated the 
cause of the damage further by sending a second loss adjuster to visit Mrs B in early 
November 2020. The report from this visit said the water damage was likely caused when 
Mrs B inadvertently knocked the bidet tap into the on position with the nozzle pointing 
upwards. Following this, Acromas decided a claim wasnt payable under Mrs Bs policy. 
Mrs B complained to Acromas, saying it initially told her she was covered only to say many 
weeks later that she wasnt. Acromas accepted it initially incorrectly told Mrs B it would pay 
her claim and offered her £500 compensation. But Acromas didnt change its position 
regarding the claim, though it was concerned about Mrs Bs welfare and offered her a £5,000 
ex gratia (goodwill) payment so she could begin arranging and paying for repairs herself. 
Mrs B rejected this and referred her complaint to our service. She said Acromas initially told 
her she was covered and didnt need to do anything. Mrs B said she didnt have her 
freezers, cookers, hob, hot water or heating for twelve weeks; her electrics and boiler still 
arent working properly; her kitchen is mouldy with a sagging ceiling; and carpet and 
wallpaper is lifting elsewhere. Mrs B said her washing machine had stopped working, and 
her TV and CCTV camera were water damaged. And her freezers, toaster, microwave and 
kettle were water damaged and had to be disposed of. Mrs B said she was very distressed 
by the whole situation, and the water damage worsened her existing health conditions. 
Acromas provided us with its comments and evidence. It told us I can confirm that we do not 
consider that the policy covers the damage to [Mrs Bs] home and so have not meet [sic] the 
claim under the policy. I appreciate that this will be a disappointment for [Mrs B] however she 
did not have the correct level of cover to claim. Acromas later said there was no damage to 
the bidet causing the water damage to Mrs Bs home  since Mrs B was able to simply turn 
the tap off to stop the flow of water and prevent any further loss - so Mrs Bs limited 
accidental cover didnt cover this particular loss. 
Our investigator thought Acromas was fair to say this was an accidental damage claim given 
the cause of the damage. And noted Acromas didnt dispute Mrs B had limited accidental 
damage cover. But shed not seen any evidence Acromas had assessed the claim under 
that cover. So our investigator thought Acromas should reassess Mrs Bs claim against the 
limited accidental damage cover her policy provided.  
Acromas disagreed. It said Mrs B had limited accidental damage cover included in her 
policy, but hadnt bought full accidental damage cover. And it had fully considered the claim 
under the cover provided by Mrs Bs policy  it said nothing was payable under the policys 
buildings limited accidental damage cover in endorsement 851. But Mrs Bs hob was 
covered under the contents limited accidental damage cover in endorsement 852, which it 
had paid Mrs B a cash settlement for. Acromas said it had considered Mrs Bs welfare and 
offered her a £5,000 goodwill payment, as well as carrying out works to reinstate her hot 
water, lighting and power  that it had paid a total of £12,499.85 on a goodwill basis for this 
matter. Acromas said it had reviewed the claim but there was no cover available under the 
policy terms.
In Mrs Bs response to our investigators view, she said the loss adjuster said she was 
covered up to £75,000 for her contents and repairs and needed to move quickly because the 
water damage meant Mrs Bs home would deteriorate. And the loss adjuster later told her 
the claim was only on hold, so she was led to believe everything was ok. Mrs B says 
Acromas repeatedly told her not to do anything, as it would take control. And that it cut 
samples from her carpets and made a hole in her ceiling. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
Acromas provided me with further clarification. This included a copy of the report from the 
second loss adjuster visit, evidence of what Acromas had paid regarding this matter, and 
confirmation Acromas hadnt yet paid Mrs B the cash settlement for the hob. Acromas also 
confirmed that what it had paid for here was on a goodwill basis because of Mrs Bs welfare, 
rather than under the policys limited accidental damage cover. Acromas said The decision 
on whether Indemnity would apply to this claim is based on the facts as presented and our 
review of the policy wording applicable to this Risk. After further discussion following the 
second visit, the business took the decision that there was no cover available under the 
policy. Notwithstanding that, we recognised the customers emotional and financial distress 
and appropriate action was taken.
Acromas later clarified its position. It accepted the circumstances of the claim were 
accidental damage, but said Mrs B had no cover available because she hadnt bought full 
accidental damage cover when she renewed her policy in July 2020. Acromas said it had 
fully considered Mrs Bs claim under her limited accidental damage cover. When I asked for 
evidence of this, Acromas said it had already provided our service with all the information it 
had. And that it recently contacted Mrs B to see if there were other non-portable appliances 
she wanted to claim for that Acromas wasnt aware of, but it hadnt received a response.  
Im now in a position to issue my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings Id like to say Im sorry to hear of Mrs Bs health difficulties. And I 
recognise the water damage to her home must have caused her a great deal of upset and 
inconvenience in and of itself.  
The main thing Mrs B wants is for Acromas to pay her claim in full for the water damage to 
her home and its contents. But Acromas declined her claim under the policy terms, though 
its carried out some works and offered a £5,000 payment to Mrs B on a goodwill basis. So 
Ive considered whether Acromas has acted fairly and reasonably regarding Mrs Bs claim. 
Acromas initially dealt with Mrs Bs claim as an escape of water. Mrs Bs policy says she is 
insured against loss or damage to her buildings by Escape of water (water damage) as a 
result of a burst, leaking or overflowing fixed domestic drain, water or heating installation, 
kitchen appliance or fixed domestic water piping/pipes. This includes damage to any fixed 
domestic water installation caused by freezing or bursting.
But when the loss adjuster visited in November 2020, they found no fault or issue with the 
bidet and noted Mrs B said there was no previous issues with it. And based on what Mrs B 
told the loss adjusters about the circumstances, her physical health issues, and her 
demonstration of how she would have used the bidet  with no plug used and that water 
could be directed out of the bidet bowl onto the floor  the loss adjuster reported that what 
most likely happened is Mrs B inadvertently knocked the bidet tap into the on position with 
the nozzle pointing upwards, and water ejected directly from the bidet nozzle to the floor.
Based on this, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Acromas to conclude this wasnt an escape 
of water as set out in the policy. So I think it was fair for Acromas to say it wouldnt pay 
Mrs Bs claim on that basis.
However, Acromas accepts that when Mrs B called to claim in late September 2020, it 
incorrectly told her it could assist her. And the claim notes show that on 4 November 2020 
Acromas told Mrs B she wasnt covered in the way it had initially told her and it was 
reviewing her claim. So Im satisfied Mrs B was caused a loss of expectation here, as for 
about six weeks she thought her claim would be covered. I think Mrs B would have been 
surprised, upset and disappointed to then find out this wasnt the case. 
I think this had a greater impact on Mrs B because of the health issues shes told us about. 
And also because the condition of her home was deteriorating during this time, and 
Acromas contractors had made a hole in her ceiling and cut samples from her carpets - 
though the first loss adjusters report is clear that plasterwork and carpets would need to be 
removed anyway. Taking all this into account, I think the £500 already offered by Acromas is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the loss of expectation and distress it caused Mrs B.
Ill now turn to the matter of accidental damage cover. Acromas accepts the circumstances 
of this claim were accidental damage. But Mrs Bs policy documents show she doesnt have 
full accidental damage cover. Mrs B says she thought she had this and doesnt understand 
how it was removed from her policy. Ive not seen that Mrs Bs complained to Acromas about 
why she no longer has full accidental damage cover, so its not something I can consider in 
this decision. Mrs B would need to complain to Acromas about this first, and if shes unhappy 
with its response she may then refer that complaint to our service for an impartial 
investigation. 
Regardless, as I say, Mrs Bs policy doesnt provide full accidental damage cover. However, 
Acromas agrees her policy does provide a limited amount of buildings and contents accidental damage cover under policy endorsements 851 and 852. Endorsement 851 says, 
Buildings - Limited Accidental damage
Your buildings are insured against accidental damage to the following:
 fixed glass in windows, doors, solar panels, fanlights and skylights in your buildings;
 mirrors in permanent fixtures and fittings;
 sanitary fixtures in your home; or
 cooking hobs in fixed appliances.
We will not pay:
For any loss or damage caused by scratching. If your home was unfurnished or unoccupied 
at the time of the loss or damage.
Ive set out below what I see to be the relevant parts of endorsement 852. Which says, 
Contents - Limited Accidental damage
Your contents are insured against accidental damage to the following:
 domestic electrical or gas equipment or appliances such as televisions, which are not 
designed to be portable;
 satellite dishes and aerials;
 mirrors, plate glass tops to furniture and fixed glass in furniture; and cooking hobs
or tops on free-standing cookers.
We will not pay:
For any loss or damage to electrical or gas equipment designed to be portable, laptops, 
netbooks and/or computer tablets.
For damage caused by the following:
 insects, parasites, or vermin (other than squirrels);
 fungus or mildew;
 atmospheric or climatic conditions, frost or the action of light;
 alterations, repairs, maintenance, restoration, dismantling or renovating;
 any process of cleaning, drying, dyeing, heating or washing;
 chewing, scratching, tearing or fouling by pets;
 faulty design or workmanship or using faulty materials;
 mechanical or electrical breakdowns or failure; or
 demolition, structural alterations or structural repairs to your buildings.
If your home was unfurnished or unoccupied at the time of the loss or damage. 
For any erasure or distortion of information on computer equipment, films, records, audio or 
video tapes, computer or compact discs, or cassettes; and hand-held electronic toys or 
games.
Acromas has provided evidence to show that it has already carried out a significant amount 
of work here and sent Mrs B a cheque for £5,000 so she could begin to arrange and pay for 
repair work herself. And Acromas has at times said Mrs B has no cover available under her 
policy and that what its paid so far was on a goodwill basis because it was concerned for 
Mrs Bs welfare. I acknowledge Acromas has done work here and offered £5,000 in goodwill. 
This is something Acromas can itself choose to do. But that doesnt replace the 
responsibilities Acromas has under the policy, which is the contract of insurance it entered 
into with Mrs B. And Mrs B does have limited buildings and accidental damage cover under 
policy endorsements 851 and 852, as Ive set out. 
So Id expect Acromas to fully and properly consider Mrs Bs claim against this limited 
buildings and contents accidental damage cover  though whether a claim is then payable 
would depend on Acromas assessment. Acromas has latterly confirmed it has considered Mrs Bs claim under her limited accidental damage cover. But in the evidence and 
information Acromas has provided me with, Ive not seen anything to make me think it has 
carried out a full and proper assessment of Miss Ms claim against the cover provided by the 
policy. So Ive not seen enough evidence to fairly conclude Acromas has fully and thoroughly 
assessed Mrs Bs claim under the limited accidental damage cover her policy endorsements 
851 and 852 provide. 
Putting things right
Taking all this into account, I think a fair and reasonable outcome here is for Acromas to fully 
and properly consider Mrs Bs claim against the limited accidental damage cover she has 
under her policy endorsements 851 and 852, and to issue Mrs B with a clear claim decision 
about that. If Acromas claim decision means it owes Mrs B a further payment, then its fair 
and reasonable for Acromas to deduct that further payment from the £5,000 goodwill 
payment it has already offered Mrs B. But if any further payment Acromas decides is owed 
amounts to more than £5,000, Acromas should pay the difference to Mrs B.  
Acromas should also pay Mrs B the £500 compensation it has already offered her for the 
loss of expectation and distress it caused her, if it hasnt already paid this to Mrs B.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Acromas Insurance Company Limited should:
fully assess Mrs Bs claim under policy endorsements 851 and 852 and issue a claim 
decision. If its claim decision means anything further is payable to Mrs B, it can deduct 
this from the £5,000 it has itself already chosen to offer Mrs B. But if any further 
payment Acromas decides is owed amounts to more than £5,000, Acromas should pay 
the difference to Mrs B.
pay Mrs B the £500 compensation it has already offered her for the loss of expectation 
and distress it caused her, if it hasnt already paid this to Mrs B.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman