DRN-2777340
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The date of 
sale is not clear, but as the credit card was taken out in 1997 it seems likely the PPI was 
sold at the same time. Mrs T says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale, as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because, although Lloyds couldnt provide a copy of Mrs Ts credit 
agreement, it did send in a sample copy, and I can see that Mrs T wouldve had to tick a 
box to say she wanted PPI. I think she could simply have left it blank if she didnt want it. 
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs T, but it considered the 
complaint as though it did, which holds it to a higher standard in that it wouldve had to 
check that the PPI was right for her. And the evidence about Mrs Ts circumstances at 
the time shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For 
example Mrs T was eligible for the cover, and although she said she wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay from her employer, she also said she didnt have any savings to fall 
back on. So she still seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ts employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs T says she had a medical condition before the 
policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say 
this because Mrs T mentioned that her health problem was diagnosed in 1989, and she 
didnt say whether or how it was affecting her in 1997. And I can see from the policy 
document that if Mrs T hadnt consulted or received treatment from a doctor in the 12 
months before taking out the policy, she could have submitted a claim for that condition. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out, so it looks as though she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs T as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from 
the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her had something gone wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs T would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions, and excluded 
claims for mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale 
and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact they had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman