DRN-4210286
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc is pursuing him personally for repayment 
of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) that he says he applied for in the name of a limited 
company. Ill refer to the limited company as S.  
What happened
Mr J told us:
He set up S in 2017, but he couldnt open a business bank account for S because of 
its credit score. 
Hed been advised by a NatWest branch to open a sole trader bank account instead, 
until he could obtain one for S. 
He applied for a BBL on behalf of S in 2020. He filled in Ss registered company 
number and signed as a director. 
He had now sold his business and S was in liquidation. 
The bank were trying to hold him liable for a situation created by their error.  
NatWest told us:
Mr J opened a sole trader business account in 2017. 
In 2020, they received a BBL application for £50,000, which quoted Mr Js sole trader 
account number. The BBL application process was automated, so this generated a 
BBL loan agreement in Mr Js name. 
Mr J signed the loan agreement and the £50,000 was paid into his sole trader 
business account. Mr J later applied for a term extension to the loan. 
NatWest only gave BBLs to businesses that already banked with them. S didnt bank 
with them so wasnt eligible for a BBL. 
Mr J had signed a loan agreement in his own name. So he was liable. 
Mr J complained to the bank, who didnt think they had done anything wrong. He then 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our investigators looked into the issue, but concluded that the bank hadnt acted 
unfairly. Mr J disagreed and made the following points, in summary:
He had another sole trader BBL (for a different business), for which he was making 
payments and had never denied liability. 
NatWest staff had been negligent in not explaining the BBL criteria to him. 
It was due to NatWest staff that he had a sole trader bank account in the first place. 
Nothing in the BBL application indicated the application came from a sole trader, 
other than the account number. 
NatWest should have identified the anomalies in the application and queried them 
with him  or else rejected the application. 
Had Mr J been fully informed of the criteria, he would not have applied for the BBL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but I agree with our investigators conclusions, 
for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain why below. 
I can see that Mr J intended to apply for the BBL in the name of S. However, S would never 
have been eligible for a BBL from NatWest, because it wasnt an existing customer. It 
therefore follows that, if everything had gone as intended, the application would have been 
rejected and Mr Js business would not have been able to access the £50,000 funds (at 
least, not from NatWest). 
The automated process used by NatWest in order to offer BBLs in a timely way made the 
business account number quoted critical. Quoting Mr Js sole trader account number on the 
application therefore resulted in the bank offering Mr J a BBL in his sole trader name. 
However, it was Mr Js responsibility to check and then sign and return the loan agreement if 
he wanted to proceed. Mr J didnt notice that the agreement wasnt in Ss name and signed it 
anyway. So I consider a significant part of the responsibility rests with him. 
Mr J would have received statements for the loan showing it was in his sole name. And later, 
Mr J went on to apply for a term extension for the BBL, all without querying why it was in his 
sole name. 
I know that Mr J argues that NatWest should have made the BBL criteria clearer for him in 
the branch  and that he would never have applied for the loan had he been aware of those 
criteria. But Im afraid I think Mr J was responsible for understanding what he was applying 
for. I dont think the branch staff can reasonably be expected to list all criteria that might be 
relevant. 
Ive thought about Mr Js argument that it was due to NatWest that S didnt have a bank 
account in its name in the first place. This may be so  but NatWest is entitled to decide with 
whom it will do business. Mr J says that S was turned down for a bank account because of 
its low credit score. I consider this is something that the bank is entitled to do. Neither do I 
think that suggesting Mr J open a sole trader account instead was an unreasonable proposal 
to solve his problem of needing a business account to trade. My conclusion is that there was 
no error on NatWests part that led to Mr J having a sole trader account not a limited 
company one. Ideally, I think NatWest would have had checks in place that would have picked up any 
mismatch between account numbers and the name in which the application was made. But 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I need to consider whether 
there has been an unfair outcome. Ive borne in mind that the outcome if everything had 
gone correctly would have been that NatWest rejected the application from S because S 
wasnt a customer. Instead, NatWest offered the loan to their customer, who accepted it and 
the money was paid into that customers account and spent from there. Mr J was operating 
his business through that current account and I dont think he disputes that his business 
used that money. 
I know that Mr J feels that there has been an unfairness here. He has asked me to take into 
consideration the fact that he is apparently keeping up payments on another BBL he applied 
for as a sole trader for another business. I am not doubting his good faith. But for the 
reasons set out above, given that his business has had the money and S would never have 
been able to borrow from the bank in its own name, I dont think it is unfair for NatWest to 
hold Mr J responsible for repaying it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman