DRN-4128599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that their water damage claim was declined under their home 
insurance policy. The policy is provided by QIC Europe Ltd.
Mrs B has dealt with the complaint issues, so Ill refer to her throughout.
In relation to the various representatives acting for QIC for ease in this decision Ill refer to all 
of them as QIC.
What happened
Mrs B contacted QIC after a water pipe leaked causing damage. This was the day before 
Mrs B was meant to complete on the sale of the house. In view of the leak the sale the next 
day didnt go through and instead the claim process began. A claim survey took place within 
a couple of days and it was noted:
 The policyholder expects the damage to be covered. We explained that we are reporting 
only at this stage.
There has been a leak from a pipe above the ceiling to the rear bedroom, this happened on 
5 January 2023, the leak has now been repaired.
The policyholder had been away for 1 week and had also been moving furniture out of the 
property as a sale was due to complete on 7 January 2023, this may now not go ahead.
The report also said:
A second visit will be required when drying is complete. The policyholder cant live in the 
property at present due to the damage, alternative accommodation may be required. She 
may have to move back into the property when reinstated as the sale will most likely fall 
through.
The QIC first response team records noted: Is the property furnished  No.
Mr B had moved out most of his belongings and Mrs B had returned on 5 January to clear 
the final items. Mrs B also indicated there had been short periods when nobody had stayed 
at the house.
Mrs B said she was told the claim had been accepted on 9 January and again on 17 
January. She said QIC told her it wouldnt be paying the claim on 3 February. But Mrs B 
confirmed she had exchanged contracts to sell the property on 1 February.
Mrs B said she never would have signed off on the property sale if she had known the claim 
was being investigated again. She said she was now significantly out of pocket due to 
significantly reducing the price to sell the house.
As QIC wouldnt change its decision Mrs B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said QIC had enough information at the 
start of the claim to check against the policy terms and conditions. She felt QIC acted 
reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim based on the policy wording. But she felt 
QIC could have notified Mrs B the claim wasnt going to be paid much quicker than it did. 
Our investigator said this had caused an emotional impact on Mrs B and asked QIC to pay 
£850 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC agreed to pay the £850.
Mrs B didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything Mrs B has raised. I know Mrs B has raised many points but Im only 
going to deal with the key issues of the complaint. That is QICs handling of the claim and its 
decision to decline the claim.
QIC said in its final response letter that the claim was considered under the escape of water 
section of the policy:
Escape of water or oil
We will cover loss or damage caused by:
a. Escape of water from any:
i fixed domestic water installation;
ii heating system (including radiators and boilers);
iii washing machine, dishwasher, fridge or freezer;
at your property; or
b. Water freezing in tanks, apparatus and pipes at your property, or 
c. Escape of water from a fixed domestic oil installation at your property.
Based on the evidence provided by Mrs B and following the survey of the damaged property 
QIC decided that as of 26th December 2022, the furniture and contents had been removed 
from the property.
QIC then referred to the policy exclusions that apply under the escape of water section of the 
policy:
Loss or damage while the buildings are unoccupied or unfurnished.
It said the property met the definition of unfurnished at the time of the claim, so the exclusion 
applied, and the claim would be declined.
I can understand how Mrs B thought the claim must be accepted as QIC was taking action to 
rectify the damage. But I also understand that QIC felt it needed to react fast to try and 
minimise the impact of the water damage to stop the claim situation getting any worse.
QIC also made some payments totalling £1661.68 to Mrs B for expenses and initial 
alternative accommodation. Drying equipment was put in place to speed up the process. But 
after starting some work on 2 February the contractors later made contact asking to come 
back and collect the drying equipment. This was the point when Mrs B realised something wasnt right. After making numerous attempts to find out what was going on Mrs B was 
informed that her claim was being declined.
Mrs B had eventually concluded the sale of the property on 1 February at a greatly reduced 
sale price due to the claim damage.
Within the policy the definition of unfurnished is:
Unfurnished
Without enough furniture and furnishings for normal living purposes.
Mrs B feels this isnt clear enough and pointed out that she did have some stools and garden 
furniture left at the property. But it is clear from her correspondence with this service that to 
all intents and purposes the property was without furniture as the sale was meant to go 
through the day after the damage occurred. Based on the details I think that QIC acted fairly 
and reasonably when it declined to deal with the water damage claim. The furnishings had 
been largely moved out and the property was only being used sporadically.
I think based on the details provided by Mrs B theres no doubt that the property was mainly 
without furnishings and had been unoccupied from time to time over the Christmas period.
In terms of Mrs Bs decision to sell the property despite the claim situation I dont think I can 
fairly blame QIC for that. I think QIC had made it clear that although the repairs were moving 
forward the overall claim was still being considered internally by QIC. I think the details 
provided to this service suggest Mrs B was aware of this and it was Mrs Bs choice to still go 
ahead with the house sale at the revised price. I dont think I can hold QIC responsible for 
this.
Compensation
I think QIC could have made the decision to decline the claim earlier. I think it was aware of 
the facts at the point when the first response team surveyed the claim damage at the house.
With the contractors contacting Mrs B to arrange removal of the drying equipment I think its 
clear that Mrs B was the last to find out her claim was being declined. I dont think thats 
reasonable.
Mrs B had been clear with QIC about her pending house sale, her family situation, and her 
personal circumstances at the time of the claim. I think it could and should have done more 
to make sure she was fully aware of the claim being declined before she heard there was a 
problem from the drying contractors. Even then it took too long for QIC to confirm the claim 
wasnt going to be paid when Mrs B was trying to contact it to find out what was going on.
Mrs B also suggested that she could have made savings on the costs of work carried out by 
QIC. But I think QIC was right to start the drying out of the property and the work would have 
needed to be done at some point to restore the house to how it was prior to the claim. I dont 
think it would be fair for QIC to ask Mrs B to pay for any of the work done as it had the 
opportunity to decline the claim from the moment its first response team visited.
Its clear that the claim being declined had an impact on Mrs B. But I do think QIC could 
have and should have made the decision to decline much earlier. Mrs B was trying to deal 
with a lot of issues at the time and the drawing out of the claim decision had a big impact on 
her. I think £850 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is reasonable in 
this case.Putting things right
pay of £850 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
pay of £850 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr B and Mrs B accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman