DRN-1487245
 
The complaint
Mr F says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him. 
 What happened
This complaint is about 13 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr F between February 2018 
and December 2018. Mr F borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £450 to be repaid in 
six monthly instalments. Several of the loans overlapped so that Mr F was paying several 
instalments each month. There were no significant breaks in the lending. From what I can 
see, Mr F repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Fs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and offered redress for loan 13 only 
and later for loans 12 and 13. But Mr F was unhappy with this and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Sunny asked Mr F for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr F said his monthly income was £1,650. He said his outgoings ranged between 
£674 and £1,032. From what I can see, there was nothing untoward in Sunnys credit checks 
that should have prompted further checks, 
 
I think Sunnys checks went far enough for loans one to three. For loans one to three, given 
the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Fs circumstances at the time and his history 
with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr F provided or the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr F was saying. The loan repayments 
looked affordable for Mr F, so I cant say Sunny was wrong to have provided them. 
But I think Sunny should have made better checks for loan four. This was Mr Fs fourth loan 
in a month and loan three was still outstanding. I think Sunny should then have looked more 
closely at Mr Fs finances and asked about his other short-term borrowing to make sure he 
could sustainably repay loan four.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan four would have shown that Mr 
F was having problems managing his money. This is because sufficient checks would have 
shown that Mr F had multiple outstanding short-term loans with other lenders as well as one 
with Sunny. So I think Sunny should have realised that Mr F would be unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay loan four or any subsequent loans. And so I think Sunny was wrong to 
continue lending to Mr F from loan four onwards.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr F, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
nine. I say this because by this point Mr Fs overall pattern of borrowing showed that he was 
persistently reliant on short-term loans.  
Mr F had borrowed large amounts three times over the previous eight months.
From loan nine onwards Mr F was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one, or whilst previous loans were still running. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Fs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 13 was 
taken out ten months after Mr Fs first. And the total amount outstanding at any one 
time had increased. Mr F had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr F lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan nine 
onwards because:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4to 13 and I think Sunny should put things right. 
 Putting things right
To put things right for Mr F, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans 4 to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 to 8 from Mr Fs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 9 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 9 to 13 should be removed from Mr 
Fs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr F 
compensation as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman