DRN-4153461
The complaint
Miss R complains that Wakam applied a new rating factor to her pet insurance policy without 
giving her advance notice. She says this rating factor affected the price of her policy. 
What happened
Miss R took out a policy in 2018 through a specific broker and has renewed it every year. 
Miss R says one of the reasons for choosing this policy was because it advertised that 
claims wouldnt impact future premiums. Miss R says she first had to claim in September 
2022 and she claimed on the understanding this wouldnt affect her premium at renewal. 
Miss R says, when she received her 2023 renewal invite in December 2022, she was quoted 
£62.15 per month, and this factored in the claim. Miss R says this was a significant increase 
from the premium she paid for her 2022 renewal. Miss R queried this with Wakam and was 
informed theyd changed their terms and were now taking previous claims into account when 
calculating premiums. Miss R says she wasnt informed about this change, so she 
complained. 
Wakam responded and explained theyre always striving to improve their products and 
services they offer to ensure they better suit the needs of their customers, so they take into 
account feedback from their customers. They said over the last couple of years theyve 
received feedback relating to the way they calculate renewal prices. They explained many 
customers  who might not have made claims  felt it wasnt fair to not take into account 
their pets claims history as they were in essence paying for other customers claims. These 
customers felt it was fairer to factor in personal claims history. Wakam said, as a result, they 
made the decision, in July 2022, to include personal claims history from the last 12 months 
alongside the normal factors that can impact the renewal price. Wakam explained, this 
meant if Miss R had made any claims in the last year, she may find this has affected her 
premium depending on how many claims she made and how much shed claimed for. 
Wakam explained veterinary costs are increasing which means they need to make sure 
premiums are fairly and correctly priced so theres enough money in their pot for when their 
customers need it. Wakam said Miss Rs pet dogs claims history caused a slight increase in 
the policy. They explained the main increase was caused by a general price increase which 
affected all customers, followed by a change in rating to Miss Rs geographical area. They 
explained, as dogs age, the risk of age-related illness increases. And with Miss Rs dog 
being five years old at the point of renewal, this had an impact on the renewal cost. Wakam 
said the price quoted is correct but they appreciate it came as a shock to Miss R so they 
offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill.         
Our investigator looked into things for Miss R. He thought Wakam hadnt acted unfairly in 
applying the claims factor to Miss Rs policy and felt their offer of £100 was reasonable for 
the shock caused to Miss R. Miss R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Wakams offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Miss R will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I acknowledge Miss R is concerned, in particular, about Wakams decision to include 
personal claims history as one of the rating factors affecting the price of the policy. I do 
understand why Miss R is upset. She has provided screenshots from a previous renewal 
notice which says, You wont be singled out for making a claim. Miss R says this was one 
of the factors which appealed to her about this policy - if she did need to make a claim, it 
wouldnt have an impact on the renewal price. I can see Miss Rs premium in 2022 was 
£414.34 with a monthly payment of £34.53, but this increased to a premium of £745.81 with 
a monthly payment of £62.15 in the quote provided for 2023.
Miss R says she renewed her policy in January 2022. She says her dog needed treatment 
for gastrointestinal issues in September 2022 and she had two options, to make a claim for 
treatment or try a change in diet. Miss R chose to make a claim on the understanding that it 
wont impact her premium. Miss R then received a renewal invite in December 2022 and this 
says When we work out your price we look at lots of factors. Things like your pets age, 
more sophisticated vet treatments becoming available and your claims history can 
significantly affect your renewal premium.  
Wakam confirm they made the decision to include personal claims history in July 2022  so 
this first affected Miss Rs 2023 renewal. Miss R may feel this is unfair, but Wakam, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as they 
changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Miss R hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change 
their approach to factor in personal claims history. Insurers regularly monitor the market and 
change their approach in response to internal and external factors. In this case, this change 
was brought about following, what Wakam describe as, an extreme volume of feedback 
from their customers who felt the omission of a personal claims history rating factor was 
unfair. So I cant say Wakam have acted unfairly here in changing their approach  a change 
which applied equally to all their customers. 
I understand Miss R feels this change shouldve been communicated to her at the time 
Wakam changed their approach in July 2022. Wakam say, all customers were notified of the 
change in the way they price their policy when they became affected by it  this being the 
next renewal after the change. Wakam say this change didnt affect Miss Rs policy when it 
came into effect in July as her premium for that policy year didnt change. They say the first 
policy this affected was her 2023 renewal which is why she was notified of the change in her 
December 2022 renewal invite. They explain, when they first started, they took the business 
decision to not include personal claims history into account but since then consumer 
feedback has changed to there being a preference for this to be taken into account. They 
say this isnt a change in their terms and conditions, but a change in their pricing strategy 
which brings them in line with standard market practise.  
At the point Miss R made a claim, it was after Wakams change in approach, but before she 
was made aware of the change. I understand Miss R feels its unfair Wakam have decided to 
change their approach mid-way through her 2022 policy year. Miss R says, had she been 
made aware of the change, she had the option of choosing a change in diet for her dog, and 
not making a claim to avoid a price increase. I do acknowledge Miss Rs concern here, but 
the change was implemented across all policies at a point which was around the half-way 
point in Miss Rs 2022 policy year. I havent seen any information which suggests this policy 
change decision was made prior to Miss Rs 2022 policy starting. So, while I cant say the change in policy decision shouldve been communicated any sooner than July 2022, Ive 
thought about whether it couldve been communicated after this. As Ive mentioned above, 
insurers constantly monitor the market and rating factors change regularly. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect an insurer to write to all customers letting them know about a rating 
factor change. I think its reasonable in the circumstances for insurers to apply any changes 
to customers at renewal  and for this to be sent in advance of the renewal date to allow a 
customer to make an informed decision on whether to continue with the policy  and thats 
happened here.        
I think its also important to note that, while the personal claims history was a factor affecting 
the 2023 renewal price, it wasnt the only factor. Wakam have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Miss Rs price was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with her because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. 
Wakam have provided a breakdown of the policy price and I can see one factor which has 
had a significant impact on the price increase is a general price increase across all similar 
policy types which has affected all customers. This appears to have been caused by an 
increase in the vet fee base rating. The age of Miss Rs dog has had an impact on the price 
as well as Miss Rs geographical area. So, from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the 
price Miss R was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence 
that other Wakam customers in Miss Rs position will have been charged a lower premium.  
 
I can see Wakam acknowledge the new premium came as a shock to Miss R, so theyve 
offered £100 compensation  and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge Miss R will be disappointed by my decision. I do understand why shes 
concerned  she took out a policy on the basis her premium wouldnt be impacted by claims 
made. This appears to have been the case for a number of years until Wakam decided to 
change their approach in 2022  and was factored into Miss Rs 2023 renewal. I 
acknowledge this claims history then took into account the previous 12 months  but it 
wasnt unfair for Wakam to apply this rating factor in the way they did for Miss R at renewal. 
I wish to reassure Miss R Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Wakam have already made an offer to pay £100 compensation to settle the complaint, and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Wakam should pay £100 to Miss R, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman