DRN-3245463
The complaint
Mr C complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) who declined his claim under his 
gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C held a mobile phone insurance policy with IPA. In August 2021, he made a claim as he 
had lost his phone. IPA requested further information especially regarding the circumstances 
surrounding the loss. 
Mr C provided this and further explained that he had lost the phone on a tram and someone 
had probably picked it up as he couldnt find it, despite him retracing his steps and looking 
for the phone. 
Due to the information Mr C provided IPA, it declined his claim on the basis that accidental 
loss was not covered under his policy. Mr C contacted IPA, as he said that it had incorrectly 
recorded information regarding the loss of the phone. He said that he had last used his 
phone whilst on a tram and not that he had left the phone on the tram, so he raised a 
complaint. 
In its final response, IPA said that as accidental loss wasnt covered in his policy and that the 
circumstances surrounding the loss of his phone pointed to accidental loss, the claim would 
remain declined. Mr M was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that IPA were fair in declining the claim, as the policy that Mr M held did not provide 
cover for accidental loss. So, there was nothing further that she could reasonably ask IPA to 
do. 
IPA accepted the view, Mr C did not. Mr C said there were key pieces of information missing 
in the view, which he felt he said. He also asked whether our investigator had any learning 
difficulties or vulnerabilities when it comes to communicating, for him to communicate with 
her better. He requested a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr C will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
Mr C held a mobile phone insurance policy with IPA. This covered him for the following 
perils: Accidental Damage, Theft and Breakdown Cover. I have been provided with the 
Insurance Product Information Document, the schedule and the policy terms and conditions, 
which I have read. 
There are three levels of cover outlined in the policy documents. But the schedule of 
insurance (which would indicate what Mr Cs phone was covered for) shows that Mr C chose 
the medium level cover. All the policy documents indicate that accidental loss is not covered 
under the policy and wasnt the level of cover that Mr C chose. 
I have reviewed the information from both parties provided to me, as well as listened to the 
call recordings. Im satisfied that the information that Mr C gave regarding the circumstances 
of the incident, indicated that the phone was lost rather than stolen. Consequently, when I 
assess whether IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably and outside of its terms and conditions, 
Im unable to agree that it has. And I think that IPA fairly declined Mr Cs claim. 
Whilst I appreciate that this would not have been the outcome that Mr C was looking for, I 
am satisfied that IPA fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman