DRN-3502567
The complaint
Mr S complains about a decision by National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) not to 
uphold a claim he made to them about failed repairs to his car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Section 75
When something goes wrong, and the payment was made using a credit card it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence there was a breach of contract here. Mr S 
says he took the car to have the warning lights and speedometer repaired but the invoice he 
paid, and that hes asking Nat West to refund, says it was to clean and regenerate the Diesel 
Particulate Filter (DPF). Theres no mention of work to attend to the warning lights or the 
speedometer so I dont think it would be fair to suggest there was a contract to resolve those 
issues and that contract has been breached.
I can see that Mr S is also unhappy that the garage didnt replace an Anti-Lock Braking 
System (ABS) pump or complete a computer diagnosis but, again, Im afraid I dont have any 
corroborating evidence that work had been agreed. So, I dont think Nat West have been 
unreasonable when they declined Mr Ss section 75 claim as I dont think Mr S has been 
able to demonstrate there had been a breach of contract.
If Mr S was told something that was false and that led him into commissioning the work 
when he wouldnt have otherwise done so, Id think the work had been misrepresented to 
him and that would be a reason for Nat West to have upheld his section 75 claim. But Ive 
not been provided with evidence that suggests the garage promised the DPF regeneration 
would resolve the issues Mr S was experiencing or that it wasnt a necessary step. So, I 
dont think there is evidence of any misrepresentation either.
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through a 
chargeback scheme. That scheme is administered by Mastercard and not by Nat West and 
the administrator sets rules that need to be followed for a claim to be successful. A bank 
doesnt have to process a chargeback if it doesnt think the claim will be successful and as 
the merchant would have been likely to defend the chargeback by providing an invoice 
detailing the work that had been completed, I dont think Nat West were wrong not to 
process a chargeback as it would have been very unlikely to succeed.
So, I dont think Nat West have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman