DRN-2452949
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Santander UK Plcs actions in relation to a loan application she 
made.
What happened
Mrs R applied for an £11,000 loan with Santander in July 2020, via a money advice website. 
Mrs R says that she received an acknowledgement saying that a decision about whether her 
application was successful would be sent in the next two working days. Mrs R said she didnt 
receive any correspondence by the second working day, so she contacted Santander.
The adviser Mrs R initially spoke with apologised for the delay and explained this was 
because further information was needed. The adviser said the information was outlined in a 
letter that was sent in the post earlier that day. Mrs R was unhappy with the delay and was 
transferred to the complaints team. The next adviser Mrs R spoke with was able to obtain 
the required information from Mrs R, and explained they should have an update on the 
application by the next day.
The following morning Mrs R was told her application was successful, and she was sent a 
link to proceed with in order to release the funds. Mrs R said she had trouble accessing this 
link and was told by the adviser she spoke with that they would try to sort the issue out from 
their end. Following this, Mrs R received a call from another adviser explaining that the 
underwriting team needed some more information about her income. Mrs R said she was 
unhappy that more information was needed when shed already been told her application 
was successful. She also says she received further correspondence from Santander with 
more conflicting information  both a loan offer and a request for further information.
Following this, Mrs R asked for her application to be cancelled and the corresponding credit 
search to be removed from her credit file. She also raised a complaint with Santander about 
the poor customer service she had received.
Santander reviewed matters and acknowledged the poor customer service Mrs R had 
received. It offered her £100 compensation by way of apology but didnt agree to remove the 
credit search. Unhappy with the response, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and ultimately thought Santander had dealt with 
the complaint fairly. He explained that a credit search was a mandatory part of the loan 
application process and therefore didnt think he could fairly ask Santander to remove this. 
He thought the £100 compensation Santander offered was enough to recognise the poor 
customer service Mrs R received.
Santander didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mrs R did, explaining her concern 
about the impact the credit search might have on any future applications. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons why. 
As part of the application process, Santander referred Mrs Rs application to its underwriters 
for review. I think this was reasonable for it to do and is what Id expect to happen to ensure 
it lends responsibly. Following this, Santander had some further questions about Mrs Rs 
income, which were put to her later than they shouldve been. At the same time, there was a 
miscommunication that led Mrs R to believe her loan application had been approved, when it 
was actually still under consideration, because Santander required more information from 
her.
Given what Ive outlined above, I do think the customer service couldve been better here. 
However, I dont think Santander was wrong to ask for further information from Mrs R, given 
the value of the loan. And, by this point, it had already conducted a credit search on Mrs R 
as part of its considerations, which its entitled to do.
Mrs R decided to withdraw from the process at this stage because of the poor service she 
had received. And, having considered this, I can understand why Mrs R chose to do so. 
However, given that Mrs R had started a loan application and didnt complete it, I dont think 
I can fairly ask Santander to withdraw the search it had already done, as it was undertaken 
in an appropriate manner.
Santander has acknowledged the poor customer service it provided. And, taking everything 
into account, I do think it let Mrs R down. But, in the overall circumstances, I think £100 
compensation fairly reflects the impact this matter had on Mrs R.
My final decision
I dont think Santander UK Plc needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman