DRN-3592902
The complaint
Ms S complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has treated her unfairly by not covering the 
full fees of her own solicitor. She says Fairmeads panel solicitors arent equipped to deal 
with the complex nature of her legal claim and so, her freedom of choice has been rendered 
meaningless.
Any reference to Fairmead includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Ms S has a legal expense insurance policy which was bought as an add-on to her 
home insurance policy. The policy is underwritten by Fairmead. 
In June 2021, Ms S made a claim on her policy to pursue an employment legal claim 
which included a claim for disability discrimination. 
Fairmead agreed to appoint Ms S own solicitor, but said it would limit the amount it 
would pay towards the legal fees to £100 per hour + VAT. It said this was in line with 
the policy wording. 
As an alternative, Fairmead also presented Ms S with a choice of three panel 
solicitors  two of which confirmed theyd be able to take the case on.
Ms S thought Fairmeads decision was unfair. She said her discrimination claim was 
complex because it was about neurodiversity. And she says was supported by her 
solicitor. 
Fairmead maintained that its panel solicitors could deal with the claim. So, it was 
satisfied it had given Ms S the freedom to choose a solicitor who could take forward 
her claim without Ms S having to make up the shortfall.
Ms S has chosen to continue with her preferred solicitor and is paying the difference 
between the solicitors fees and Fairmeads contribution. 
Unhappy Ms S brought a complaint to this Service. 
An Investigator considered it but was satisfied Fairmead had treated Ms S fairly. So, 
she didnt uphold it.
Ms S remained unhappy and so the case has been passed to me a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document. The policy wording says:
If you choose a law firm as your appointed representative who is not a 
preferred law firm, the administrator will give your choice of law firm the 
opportunity to act on the same terms as a preferred law firm [] The amount 
we will pay a law firm (where acting as the appointed representative) is 
currently £100 per hour. This amount may vary from time to time.
From reading this Im satisfied the policy offers Ms S the freedom of choice shes 
entitled to and makes it clear that payment is limited to £100 per hour. The insurer is 
entitled to restrict what it pays under a policy, and so its not unusual that this term 
has been included. 
Ms S says her freedom of choice has been rendered meaningless because the 
preferred solicitors were unable to deal with her legal claim due to the nature of it and 
she couldnt find an suitably experienced solicitor for the hourly rate Fairmead was 
prepared to pay. 
From what Ive seen, Fairmead offered a choice of three solicitors, two of which 
confirmed they would be able to deal with the legal claim. Ive read these solicitors 
opinions and find them to be persuasive. Both opinions acknowledge the issues 
which Ms S deem to be more complex but provide assurance as to why they would 
still fall within their expertise. 
I balance this with the opinion of Ms S solicitor which although says the claim is 
complicated due to the nature of the disability discrimination claim, it doesnt explain 
why this makes it a more complex case. And in the absence of such evidence, Im 
not persuaded this wasnt a case the preferred solicitors could have dealt with. And 
so, I dont agree Ms S freedom of choice has been taken away. 
Ms S has said that providing only two solicitors doesnt amount to a freedom of 
choice as theres a risk of there being a conflict of interest with at least one of them. 
Whilst this might be a concern of Ms S, Ive not been provided with information to 
show this materialised and so, this doesnt change my mind.
Ms S has said the policy documents werent sent to her and so she wasnt aware of 
the restriction on payments to an insureds chosen solicitors. Ms S says that given 
her disability, she should have received a paper copy. I havent been provided with 
evidence to show Ms S made the business aware of her disability and so I dont think 
its reasonable to have expected it to do this. The policy renewal documents were 
available online, so when Ms S realised shed not received them, she could have 
contacted the business to request a copy. 
I know my decision will be very disappointing for Ms S, particularly as she has gone 
through a particularly stressful time. But, for the reasons set out above, Im not 
persuaded Fairmead has treated her claim unfairly, and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything else. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman