DRN-3623824
The complaint
Miss K complains Arrow Global Limited incorrectly registered a default on her credit file.
Arrow has used a third-party company to manage Miss Ks account but Ive referred to Arrow
only in this decision as theyre responsible for this complaint.
What happened
Miss K is unhappy Arrow defaulted her account in March 2021 because she says the original
creditor had already done so a number of years earlier.
Arrow says the information provided by the original creditor showed the account was live and
had not already been defaulted when Arrow acquired it. So they hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss K wasnt happy with Arrows response, so she referred her complaint to our service.
An Investigator considered her concerns. He said, in summary, he didnt think Arrow had a
made a mistake in defaulting Miss Ks account. But he did think they shouldve done so
earlier and so he recommended the default was backdated.
Miss K didnt accept the Investigators findings. She maintained the account had been
defaulted more than six years previously by the original creditor and so she still felt Arrow
should remove the one they had registered in 2021.
As Miss K didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision and 
Ive set out my provisional findings again below. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K says that the original creditor defaulted her account more than six years before it was
sold to Arrow.
Arrow says the account was live when it was sold to them and weve been in touch with the
original creditor directly, who also told us  and provided evidence to show - the account was
live and had not already been defaulted when it was sold to Arrow.
Miss K has provided a lot of information to support what she says. I can see that Miss K had
a long-term payment arrangement with the original creditor, during which time no interest
was applied. Shes also provided default notices sent to her by other financial businesses
around the time she says the original creditor also defaulted this account. But none of this
information shows a default registered for this account by the original creditor. So, while I
know Miss K will be disappointed, I havent found the evidence supports her assertion that
this account was defaulted previously by the original creditor.
Miss K is also unhappy because she feels Arrow didnt follow the correct process for
defaulting her account because they didnt send her a default notice under section 87 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974. And I agree, Arrow didnt send her a default notice in line with
this provision  they sent her a termination notice instead. This said Arrow intended to
terminate Miss Ks account and record a default on her credit file. To avoid the default, the
notice said Miss K would have to repay the remaining balance in full. So Ive considered
what impact this has had on Miss K.
Arrow acquired this account in 2019. I can see that prior to sending the termination notice
Arrow had made other attempts to get in touch with Miss K since they took ownership of the
account but it doesnt look like any of that contact was successful. The last payment that was
made towards the account was in September 2019.
Miss K told Arrow she couldnt afford to pay the balance when she contacted them after
receiving the termination notice and that she could only make token payments of £1 per
month.
If a default notice had been sent it likely wouldve required Miss K to have brought the
account up to date by clearing any arrears and resuming payments to Arrow in line with the
agreement.
So even if a default notice had been sent, it seems unlikely Miss K wouldve been able to
afford to clear the arrears and make sufficient payments to avoid a default being registered
in any event. So I dont think this has changed Miss Ks overall position.
The Information Commissioners Office guidance on defaults says they can be registered
when the customer is three to six months in arrears. Miss K was three months in arrears by
December 2019 but the termination notice wasnt issued until January 2021. So, I think
Arrow shouldve taken the appropriate steps to default Miss Ks account sooner, so I intend
to find the default should be backdated to December 2019 to reflect this.
When Miss K first contacted Arrow, they told her theyd place the account on hold while they
looked into things but this didnt happen and the default was registered. I can understand
why Miss K was upset by this, but since shed already told Arrow she couldnt afford to repay
the balance, it seems likely she wouldnt have been in a position to avoid the default in any
event. So, I dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome of her complaint.
Im sorry to hear how difficult things have been for Miss K and the particular impact this
default has had on her at an already difficult time. But, overall, Im satisfied Arrow were
entitled to default her account but that they shouldve done so earlier than they did.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss K responded to say she didnt agree with my provisional findings. She said she felt we 
hadnt considered things fairly, but she didnt provide any specific detail for me to consider. 
Arrow did not reply by the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss K was so disappointed by my provisional findings. But as neither she, 
nor Arrow have added anything new for me to consider Im not persuaded I need to depart 
from those findings. So my decision remains that Arrow should backdate the default. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ks complaint.
To put things right, I require Arrow Global Limited to backdate the default on Miss Ks
account to December 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman