DRN-3076411
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt help recover money he lost to 
an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In summary, between October 2018 and February 2019, Mr R made a number of payments 
to a binary options and Contracts for Difference (CFD) broker. For the purposes of this 
decision, Ill refer to this firm as M. Mr R sent just under £38,000 to M during that period.
In the middle of February 2019, Mr R contacted Barclays and asked for its assistance in 
recovering his money as he believed he had been scammed. He said that he hadnt 
authorised these payments. Given what Mr R had said about the payments, Barclays treated 
these as fraudulent transactions. Following an investigation, it declined to offer a refund. It 
didnt present a chargeback and said this was because it didnt receive sufficient information 
from Mr R to consider it. Barclays paid £50 compensation for the service provided during its 
review.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. While it was awaiting a review, M directly offered 
a partial refund which Mr R accepted. Our investigator initially upheld the complaint as he 
thought that Barclays ought to have attempted a chargeback which would most likely have 
gone in Mr Rs favour. Barclays didnt agree and the investigator reconsidered the complaint 
following further clarification regarding the chargeback process. He ultimately concluded that 
Barclays didnt act unfairly by not attempting to recover the payments through the 
chargeback scheme. And the investigator didnt think that Barclays should reasonably have 
been expected to prevent the payments from being made in the first instance.
Mr R didnt agree, so the matter has been escalated to me for review and determination. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers  in this case Visa  
whereby Visa will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a merchant and a customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them. There are rules to the scheme  set by Visa  which 
means there are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for 
a chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Our role isnt to second-guess 
Visas decisions or rules, but to determine whether the card issuer, acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder. 
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very narrow. 
Reason Code 13.5 (previously 53) allows claims for misrepresentation for investments 
where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw available balances. But Visa 
requires very specific evidence  a copy of the cardholders investment account showing the 
date, the withdrawal amount, and the available balance at the time of the withdrawal request.
From the information Ive seen, it doesnt appear as though Mr R was in possession of this 
information when he contacted Barclays. Or, that he would have been able to provide all the 
required evidence if it had been requested at the time. Also, I understand that Mr R was 
subsequently able to make a successful withdrawal from his trading account with M. As such 
if Barclays had raised a chargeback claim on his behalf, its unlikely to have been considered 
valid. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Barclays was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
by declining to raise a chargeback that likely had no reasonable prospect of success. 
Ive also considered whether Barclays ought to have intervened before allowing the disputed 
transactions to proceed. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options or CFD scam is in 
fact a scam. Some complaints simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses. Some traders may have promoted these products using 
sales methods that were arguably unethical or misleading. But that doesnt always amount to 
fraud or mean that customers have been scammed.
Banks and other payment services providers have duties to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised payments, they 
dont have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. 
In reviewing Mr Rs case, Ive considered the official organisations that publish warnings 
about investment merchants that operate in the UK and elsewhere. Ive searched the 
Investors Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO), the international body that brings together the worlds securities regulators. And 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) also has its own warning list, which is in place to 
share alerts and insights about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that M didnt have adverse information 
reported about it at the time Mr R authorised the payments he disputes. What I have noted is 
that M was regulated in another jurisdiction and was able to passport into the UK and offer 
its services here. Illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming customers 
are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight. 
Ive seen that the FCA cancelled Ms registration in June 2020 and explained that it could no 
longer provide investment services to UK customers. But this information was not available 
at the time of Mr Rs disputed payments. I must follow the evidence and, essentially, Ive no 
credible evidence to persuade me with any degree of certainty that M was operating a scam. 
And the evidence Ive seen suggests that it was indeed regulated at the time it offered 
services to Mr R. 
So, taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied theres strong evidence M wasnt 
operating a scam.
As Ive found that the payments Mr R made to M werent fraudulent, the banks duty to 
intervene was not triggered here  Mr R wasnt at risk of financial loss due to fraud. As Ive 
explained, banks and other payment service providers arent required to protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to poor investment advice or bad bargains. Barclays is 
required to guard against money laundering and other financial crime. I accept that in some 
circumstances, undertaking normal due diligence for this reason might  inadvertently and 
incidentally  prevent a customer from financial loss due to a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice. But if a firm has failed to meet its statutory or regulatory requirements, that is a 
matter for the FCA as regulator  and the omission does not in itself fix the firm with liability 
to customers for losses that are unconnected with the real mischief which the regulations 
were designed to combat, i.e. financial crime or fraud.
I know that Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. But its important that I mention the 
respondent business here is Barclays, not M. I cant consider whether M has acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealing with him. I understand that Mr R has already complained to Ms 
regulator and has been informed that it doesnt respond to individual complaints from 
customers. Mr R may wish to contact the ombudsman scheme in that jurisdiction to check if 
it is able to investigate his complaint about M. He should note though that time limits may 
apply.
Im sorry to hear that Mr R has lost so much money and I understand he feels strongly about 
the matter. But for the reasons given, Im not going to tell Barclays to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman