DRN-3449338
The complaint
Miss W complains that a fixed sum loan agreement with Future Finance Loan Corporation 
Limited (Future Finance) was unaffordable for her and that the loan shouldnt have been 
made to her. 
What happened
Miss W signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Future Finance in May 2016 to provide her 
with £4,000 to go towards the cost of her tuition fees and £2,000 to help with her living costs. 
The loan was to be repaid by some low payments until Miss W graduated and then some 
larger payments when both parties anticipated that shed be working. The initial payments 
were £35 per month and sometime after graduation the payments were to rise to £133.79 
per month. In 2021, Miss W complained to Future Finance that the loan had been made to 
her irresponsibly. She wasnt satisfied with its response, so complained to this service. 
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Miss W disagreed 
with the investigator. And so, the complaint has passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Future Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ws complaint is that Future Finance made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Future Finance has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Future Finance failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Miss W with credit. But even if thats true, I dont 
think better enquiries would have caused Future Finance to think the lending was 
unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit was relatively modest and the initial monthly payments 
were very modest. And part of the loan was to pay for living costs. The larger monthly 
repayments were based on an estimated likely salary that Miss W may have attracted. 
There seems nothing automatically unreasonable in this and Miss W agreed to it at the time 
of the lending decision. Ive seen that Miss Ws statements show evidence of an income 
from salary and that Miss W was managing her current account well. The credit information 
sources by Future Finance suggested that Miss Ws existing borrowings, outside of the 
student loan, were small and that she had little or no adverse credit history at that time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss W to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Future Finance to think that the credit it 
provided Miss W was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss W was 
managing her account or what Future Finance could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I have also noted that payment holidays were granted during the course of the loan. I have 
read Miss Ws testimony and she thinks this shows she was in financial difficulty such that 
the borrowing was unreasonable. I disagree. Payment holidays are an explained part of the 
loan contract as outlined in the loan agreement, which Miss W agreed to. It allows for 
contractual forebearance to be shown by the lender a number of times in the life of the loan. 
This does not seem unreasonable considering the loan itself is predicated on employment 
that has yet to be achieved. 
I have noted that Miss W told us she was in financial difficulty. Mostly though, this seems to 
have been some years after the lending decision that is the subject of this complaint. 
I know that Miss W will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss W to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman