DRN-1540474
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the handling of his legal expenses claim and the claim being turned 
down. The legal expenses policy is provided by Amtrust Europe Limited. 
Any mention of Amtrust also refers to actions by its agents or representatives.
What happened
Mr G made a claim about a potential employment dispute and around 15 months later the 
business handling the issue (L) told Mr G it couldnt confirm he was covered for any such 
claim as Amtrust hadnt updated it. Mr G asked Amtrust to confirm the position and he had to 
chase on a few occasions before he got an update a couple of months later. This update 
said the claim was still being considered.
Amtrust later asked L for some further information and on the back of this it decided that 
because of Mr Gs work he wasnt covered by the policy. Amtrust said Mr Gs job wasnt 
covered under a contract of employment so the policy didnt operate. Unhappy with this Mr G 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the issue was about employment and as the 
policy didnt define this he gave the word its general meaning someone paid to work for a 
company or organisation. And because of this he said it was reasonable to include Mr G in 
this category. Our investigator said that as the dispute was about a potential discrimination 
this was something that could be put before an employment tribunal. So, based on the policy 
wording this would normally be covered by the legal expenses policy. Our investigator said it 
took close to two years to check if the policy would offer to cover Mr G or not. He said this 
was too long and Amtrust should pay Mr G £75 compensation for the delays and poor 
service he suffered. Amtrust didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has said all along that his rights mirror those of a normal employer/employee 
relationship. He said that this is also covered by the Equality Act 2010. He said Amtrust were 
just using semantics to avoid dealing with his claim. He said other insurers had picked up 
claims for colleagues in the same position as him.
Amtrust has said that it doesnt dispute the merits of Mr Gs case, but the policy only extends 
to breach of contract and not breach of rights. In relation to our investigators view Amtrust 
said it didnt dispute the compensation figure of £75 but the view had only referred to 
employment and hadnt considered the word contract. It maintains people in this line of work dont work under a contract of employment. Amtrust said the policy provides cover at 
tribunal for contract of employment matters only.
The policy
The wording states that the policy covers claims in certain circumstances:
3. Contract of employment claims pursued in an Employment Tribunal.
Mr G said that a case was brought to the employment tribunal and upheld on behalf of 
himself and a large number of his colleagues. Ive no reason to doubt what hes said on this 
point and Ive not seen any evidence from Amtrust to deny it. I suspect as such a case would 
be a matter of public record Amtrust wouldve confirmed if this point was disputed. It hasnt. 
Also, our investigator highlighted that Mr Gs case was about potential discrimination. I think 
all parties would accept that this is a topic that can be considered by an employment tribunal 
and I dont think Amtrust disputes the point generally. 
I understand what Amtrust said about the potential vagaries around the employment status 
of people like Mr G. But I note that in previous cases reviewed by this service weve only 
accepted the insurer acted reasonably in declining a claim when it had specifically defined 
employment. Otherwise, our usual approach is to consider the policy terms and conditions 
and if the term isnt defined, wed usually say that someone who is carrying out their duties 
at work, and is being paid to do it, is effectively employed. The nature of the relationship 
between Mr G and his employer works in effectively the same way as a contract of 
employment. I accept Amtrusts point that this might not be the strict legal position but on a 
fair and reasonable basis thats how I see this complaint. So, I think it was unfair of Amtrust 
to decline the claim.
On the issue about contract or contract of employment that Amtrust has again referred to 
once this service upheld Mr Gs complaint at the investigator stage. I accept what Mr G has 
said here. Mr G is someone this service would generally consider to be an employee. I think 
its accepted that Mr G is someone who could take a case to the employment tribunal. So, I 
think the attempt to use the words contract or contract of employment to decline Mr Gs 
claim is unfair and unreasonable despite any strict legal definition Amtrust may refer to. If 
this were the case, then surely Amtrust would never have sold such a policy to a customer 
like Mr G as it wouldnt be any use to him in relation to his work.
Mr G has also mentioned that other insurers have dealt with the claims (for the exact same 
issue) made by his colleagues for the exact same issue. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr G 
has said. Ive seen no suggestions from Amtrust that other people who have the same job as 
Mr G but had their claims paid out have taken out a superior type of legal expenses policy. 
The impression is policies are fairly standard within the market. So, it does suggest, based 
on other colleagues claims being paid that industry good practice is to deal with these types 
of claims. It also suggests that if Amtrust were clearly offering a more limited policy it 
wouldve needed to point this out at the point of sale to Mr G. That isnt a point Ive noted it 
raise during this complaint.
Amtrust is perfectly entitled to have policies that are specifically designed to exclude certain 
types of work and certain types of claim. Thats not disputed. And this service has seen 
policies where particular types of work have been specifically excluded. But in this case, I 
dont think it has fairly or reasonably shown that the wording excludes cover operating for 
Mr G. I think a fair outcome would be for Amtrust to reconsider Mr Gs claim.
delaysMr G is also unhappy about the delay and poor service he received. It did take close to two 
years and quite a bit of chasing by Mr G to get an answer from Amtrust.
Amtrust said it was dealing with counsel in relation to whether or not cover applied to Mr G, it 
also said previous insurers had been involved and there were a number of similar cases 
being worked through. But in fairness to Amtrust it has accepted that it took too long. And it 
has accepted the award of £75 as compensation should be paid to Mr G for the delays and 
poor service. I think thats a reasonable outcome.
Putting things right
The fair and reasonable outcome here is for Amtrust to reconsider Mr Gs claim.
Amtrust should also pay £75 for distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
reconsider Mr Gs legal expenses claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy;
pay Mr G £75 compensation for the poor service and delays he encountered.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman