DRN-3043445
The complaint
 Mr S complains about a hire purchase agreement that he took out with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
 
What happened
In March 2014 Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a used car. The 
cash price of the car was £29,047, the term of the agreement was 60 months.
Mr S initially complained that the lending was irresponsible on the basis that VWFS did not 
carry out sufficient checks to establish whether he would be able to afford the lending. 
Further Mr Ss position was that if VWFS had carried out the correct checks it would have 
known the lending was unaffordable and would not have lent to him.
The agreement fell into arrears and was terminated. VWFS took Mr S to court to recover the 
debt, the court action was successful, and a county court judgement was made against Mr 
S. It seems that ever since the county court judgement was made Mr S has been making 
payments of £100 per month to VWFS to pay off the remaining debt.
VWFSs initial stance was that it had carried out appropriate checks and the lending was 
affordable. On this basis, it did not agree that it had to do anything further. 
Dissatisfied with VWFSs response Mr S came to our service. 
Once the complaint was with us Mr S added to his complaint. In particular, and in summary, 
he indicated that the lending was also irresponsible because he took the finance out under 
pressure primarily to benefit someone else.  He told us he thought taking out the agreement 
meant that his credit file was negatively impacted in 2014. He also suggested his credit file 
had also been negatively impacted by it in 2016 (when the agreement was defaulted) and 
2017 (when the county court judgement was made against him). 
In addition, Mr S suggested his financial wellbeing, job prospects and living arrangements 
had also been negatively impacted by the county court judgement. In addition, he talked 
about how his former partner had used the agreement as a way of making him continue in 
their relationship. Mr S explained that his parents had been impacted as had he, by worry 
about the county court judgement,
Further, Mr S told us he had another county court judgement made against him in 2016 
relating to a debt with a third party. Mr S entered into an agreement with that third party after 
that judgement to pay off his debt. He considers he would have been able to pay off that 
agreement sooner but for having to make payments to VWFS. 
On further reflection, VWFS agreed that the lending had been unaffordable, therefore it 
agreed to take a number of actions to put things right. Specifically, it agreed to ask the court 
to set aside the county court judgement. Further, it agreed to ask the credit reference 
agencies to remove the adverse information it had asked to be registered on Mr Ss credit 
file about the agreement. Moreover, it agreed to refund all of the repayments of £100 per 
month Mr S had made to it, and to add interest to the refund. It agreed also to write off the 
remaining balance and terminate its agreement with Mr S.  I have been told that VWFS has 
now completed all of these actions. 
Mr S did not agree that this went far enough to address the impact of the county court 
judgement granted to VWFS, on him and on his family.
One of our investigator took a look at the remaining parts Mr Ss complaint.  He 
recommended that VWFS pay Mr S £200 for distress and inconvenience. But beyond the 
payment for distress and inconvenience our investigator did not agree he had any proper 
basis for asking VWFS to do anything more than it had already done to put things right.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr S did not. In brief, Mr S suggested 
our investigator had not understood what he had said. He did not agree that his remaining 
complaint points had been considered. He indicated regardless of whether VWFS had 
known about the role his ex-partner had played in this matter the impact of the finance had 
been as he described. In particular, Mr S said his father had offered to loan him the money 
to pay off the debt with the third party. However, when he realised how much he owed 
VWFS he told his father not to pay off the third party debt. Instead Mr S contemplated 
bankruptcy. Mr S considers he would never have had the county court judgement from the 
third party but for the actions of VWFS. Also, he suggests that he would have paid off the 
debt with the third party sooner but for the actions of VWFS and he also wants us to 
consider the interest he paid on his payments to the third party.
Also, Mr S underlined that he thinks the county court judgement granted to VWFS had an 
adverse impact on his financial and living arrangements and his job prospects. Which is a 
point he had already made. He sent further information which he suggested supported his 
stance.
Mr S added:
In conclusion, you have failed to consider all elements to this part of the complaint. The 
amount you agreed on shows me that you have clearly underestimated the devastating 
impact that this has had on my life. The ombudsman's objective is to put people back to a 
position that they would have been in before the company had made a mistake, if you do not 
have the ability to remove the CG from [the third party] then VWFS should be made to 
compensate me for the effects this has had and continues to have on my quality of life and 
mental health.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It appears that the only complaint point left for me to consider is the impact that VWFSs 
decision to lend to Mr S had on him. In particular whether the £200 which is currently on the 
table goes far enough. This is in addition to the redress that VWFS has already provided.When I look at impact in this context, I think about whether VWFSs mistake led directly to 
any of the issues that Mr S now complains about. I also look at whether any of this was 
reasonably foreseeable to VWFS. If I can answer yes to both questions then I would think it 
is fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to do something to put it right.
Third party debt
Mr S holds VWFS directly responsible for the fact that in 2016 the third party obtained a 
county court judgement against him. I can see he feels strongly about this so what I am 
going to say may upset him, which is not my intention. But I dont see it that way at all. 
Rather, I think the reason Mr S had this court judgement is because he had a debt with the 
third party that he did not pay. Regardless of any action of VWFS, Mr S would have had this 
debt. VWFS is not responsible for this. 
It may well be the case, as Mr S says, that Mr Ss father was ready and willing to pay off this 
debt, on Mr Ss behalf before the third party obtained the court order. But the underlying 
cause of it all was that Mr S had this debt in the first instance.
Moreover, I dont think it was reasonably foreseeable to VWFS that should it lend 
unaffordability to Mr S then in the future Mr S would decide to ask his father not to pay off his 
debt with a third party and seemingly not contest the case when the third party bought the 
complaint to court. 
It follows I have no proper basis to hold VWFS to account for what happened with the debt 
owed to the third party. And it also follows I cant fairly and reasonably ask VWFS to 
compensate him for any of the interest Mr S paid to the third party when he came to 
arrangement with it. Neither can I look into whether Mr S would have paid off the debt 
sooner but for owing VWFS money.
Rental properties
Mr S suggests that over the years he has been refused rental properties because of the 
county court judgement. He also suggests he had to live in places he would not have chosen 
to live and had to rent on less favourable terms, all due to the county court judgement 
obtained by VWFS. 
But during a considerable portion of this time period Mr S had two county court judgements 
on his credit file. It is really not possible to say the county court judgement granted in favour 
of VWFS was the deciding factor for Mr Ss potential landlords.
Moreover, decisions to rent are not likely to be based on any one single factor to the 
exclusion of all else. For example, Mr S tells us he was unemployed during some of this 
period that and other factors may have influenced the rejections he had from landlords. 
Further, I have not seen information about refusals to rent to him based solely on the county 
court judgement that VWFS obtained. I can see that one agent for a landlord asked Mr S to 
pay upfront even after Mr S has satisfied the debt he owed to the third party. But that does 
not mean it automatically follows, in the circumstances, that the only reason the agent 
demanded this arrangement was because of the county court judgement that VWFS had 
obtained.
In the circumstances, I am not satisfied that Mr Ss rental opportunities were adversely 
impacted solely by the existence of the county court judgement.
Financial products and career opportunities
In a nutshell Mr S suggests but for the county court judgement he would have been able to 
obtain financial products that he wanted or obtain them at better rates and been able to 
apply for roles in sectors where having no county court judgements against you is important. 
But he has not demonstrated this. Again, its significant that during most of this time period 
he had two county court judgements against him. And given that I am not persuaded that I 
can say the county court judgement that VWFS benefitted from was the crucial issue. Moreover, commercial decisions about who to lend to and on what terms take a number of 
factors into account. So, it is unlikely that this one piece of information was the key issue.  
I recognise that Mr S has sent in information to show that his applications for financial 
products had recently been accepted, when previously his applications for the same 
products had been declined. He suggests the only thing that has changed is that VWFS has 
removed most of the negative data from his credit file. But lenders do take a range of factors 
into account when deciding to lend as I have already mentioned. And I find it unlikely that the 
only reason Mr Ss applications appear to have succeeded is due to the removal of most of 
the negative information that VWFS asked to be registered on his credit file.
Mr S hasnt shown what jobs he applied for or would have applied for but for the county court 
judgement. And in any event, even if he been able to apply for those roles there is no 
certainty that he would have got them.
For all of these reasons, I dont find I can fairly and reasonably require VWFS to compensate 
Mr S for this.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr S has spoken very candidly and clearly about the impact of the county court judgement in 
particular, on his parents. I do not doubt that they were worried on his behalf and worried 
about bailiffs at the door, as he tells us. The difficulty is that he is the only eligible 
complainant here. Under the rules that govern our service, which I must follow, I have no 
power to make an award for his parents for this.
I appreciate Mr S experienced distress and inconvenience due to what VWFS did wrong by 
lending to him. And in a sense no amount of money I suggest is going to put things right for 
him I think. But when I look at what Mr S says is the impact on him, I think the £200 VWFS 
has offered goes far enough.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must, as it has already 
agreed to do, pay Mr S £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
VWFS must pay the £200 within 28 days of the date on which we tell it (Mr S) accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr S can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr S should refer back to VWFS if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties 
should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman