DRN-3567723
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refuses to refund payments she says she 
made to an investment scam company. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise the 
key events here. 
Around February 2021, Mrs B says she fell victim to a multi-layered scam operation 
orchestrated by General Capital Brokers Ltd (GCB) trading as T1Markets.com (T). Mrs B 
paid T a total of £165,593 using her Visa debit card  linked to her Barclays current account. 
Mrs B says T targeted her as she was an inexperienced investor and caused her to lose 
money through a series of fraudulent misrepresentations. 
In March 2021, Mrs B approached Barclays and asked it to process chargeback claims on 
her behalf which it did. Ts bank defended the claims. Barclays noted that T responded to 
Mrs Bs claims confirming withdrawal requests were completed as requested by her. It 
further noted terms and conditions Mrs B agreed to, along with a signed declaration 
confirming she was an experienced trader. Barclays requested further information from Mrs 
B and ultimately didnt take her chargeback claims any further. 
Unhappy with Barclays decision, Mrs B complained that it didnt process her chargeback 
claims under the most appropriate reason code and it ought to have done more to protect 
her from the financial harm caused by the scammers. Barclays felt it had done all it could to 
help. Mrs B referred her complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that Mrs B didnt have the 
required evidence for Barclays to have successfully processed chargeback claims. He also 
concluded that Barclays were not responsible to prevent bad bargains and there was no 
evidence Mrs B had been scammed. 
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said in 
summary that Barclays were under a duty to highlight suspicious transactions and protect 
her from financial harm. Mrs B said the funds she lost belong to her child and she was 
vulnerable when organised scammers stole her money and has been caused a lot of 
distress by their actions. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact 
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Mrs Bs case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent or unauthorised.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that T had no adverse information 
reported about them at the time Mrs B authorised her payments to them. What I have noted 
is that they were  and still are - regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange 
Commission (CySEC) at the time of Mrs Bs payments with passporting rights through the 
FCA - which meant they could offer services to UK customers. It would be unusual for a 
scammer to comply with all the various requirements of becoming regulated. It also means 
that Mrs B may have the option to pursue a complaint against T directly  as theyre 
ultimately who she says caused her loss  and she may also wish to consider whether she 
has the option to pursue this through the Financial Ombudsman in Cyprus if no direct 
resolution is reached.
Ive noted the FCA restricted Ts ability to offer regulated services in the UK from 18 April 
2021 (after Mrs B made all of her payments). But Im not persuaded thats enough to show 
they scammed Mrs B. The FCA may remove authority from companies whose actions fall 
short of being a fraud or scam. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mrs Bs funds 
werent genuinely invested, nor that the FCA has deemed T a scam. 
Without there being a scam to protect against, theres no obligation for Barclays to intervene 
with Mrs Bs authorised payment instructions. Its not expected to protect against bad 
bargains, nor to give investment advice. But even if Im wrong, and T were running a scam at 
the relevant time, Im still not persuaded Barclays is to blame for Mrs Bs loss. 
If Barclays had intervened and sufficiently questioned Mrs B about these payments, its likely 
this would have revealed that T were properly regulated to operate in the UK and were listed 
on the FCA register. I think this would reasonably have alleviated any fraud concerns. To 
conclude otherwise would suggest Barclays ought to have identified concerns before its own 
regulator  as the FCA didnt remove its passporting rights until after Mrs B made all of her 
payments. So even if Barclays ought to have done more to verify the payments, Im not 
persuaded that failure contributed to Mrs Bs loss.  I also dont think Barclays were aware of Mrs Bs personal circumstances at the time of her 
payments. It had no reasonable grounds to suspect that she was incapable of making 
investment decisions for herself  even if they were high risk. And as Ive already explained, 
it wasnt Barclays duty to provide investment advice. 
Barclays actions when Mrs B reported her concerns
Barclays are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Visa. And whilst 
there is no right to a chargeback, I generally think its good practice to raise one where 
there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
I note that Barclays processed chargeback claims under reason code 13.7 and Mrs B feels 
it should have done so under 13.5  misrepresentation. Visa has been clear that the most 
appropriate reason code for investment trading scams is 13.5  as Mrs B has correctly 
highlighted. But I dont think Barclays failure to use the most appropriate code makes a 
material difference. Visa requires specific evidence for this reason code to be used and Mrs 
B would have needed to provide:
Evidence of her attempts to resolve the dispute with T  and of cancelling her 
services with them if this was unsuccessful. 
Evidence of her withdrawal request plus dated evidence that she had the funds 
available in her investment account (on the same day) to withdraw. 
Ive reviewed all the information shes provided about T and I cant see that she had this 
information. Ive also seen that Mrs B requested for her account to be closed, along with her 
money back - prior to reporting the issue to Barclays - and she was given the available funds 
in her trading account. So by the time she raised this matter with Barclays, she didnt have 
any available funds and I dont think Barclays had any reasonable prospect of success in 
pursuing Mrs Bs chargeback claim  even if it had used the correct reason code. So I dont 
think Barclays acted unfairly by choosing not to pursue Mrs Bs chargeback claims further 
than it did.
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mrs B, particularly with the personal 
circumstances shes told us about. And she will understandably feel aggrieved about her 
loss. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold Barclays liable for this.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mrs Bs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman