DRN-3590302
The complaint
Mr  P complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wouldnt make a CHAPS payment 
for him. He would like compensation, and an apology.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I do appreciate Mr Ps frustration as he needed to transfer a large sum of money by 
CHAPS. He couldnt do this at one branch so had to go to another one despite his 
understanding that these transactions can be completed at any branch. Mr P was 
able to make his payment later the same day  at another branch. I need to decide if 
Barclays did anything wrong.
Mr P has told us the first branch he visited refused to make the CHAPS transfer for 
him telling him he had to make an appointment  for two weeks time. Its very difficult 
when parties dont agree as to what was said . I am inclined to think there must have 
been some misunderstanding here .Barclays has explained that the branch Mr P first 
visited has a process where, if a customer wants to make a CHAPS payment, this is 
done by appointment usually after 2pm when two staff are available to do this under 
dual control. If the circumstances are urgent it can contact another local branch to 
assist.  Mr P has told us he went into the branch about 9.30 which may explain why 
he wasnt able to make the transfer at that time. He has told us another person 
before him in the queue was able to do so. I cant be sure if that was the case or not. 
I accept it must have been inconvenient for Mr P to have to go to another branch but 
as the branch he first visited seems to have a process of not making such 
transactions without an appointment , and usually does these transactions in the 
afternoon I cant say it did anything wrong. It was frustrating for Mr P but its not for 
us to interfere with business process
Whilst I do appreciate the inconvenience Mr P its not always appropriate to pay 
compensation. In this case  I dont think Barclays did anything wrong. Mr P also  
asked for an apology, I am pleased to note that  Barclays did apologise to Mr P in its 
final response letter date 23 November 2021
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman