DRN-4162489
The complaint
Mr G complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) hasnt carried out repairs to 
his cooker after he made a claim under his appliance insurance policy.
D&G is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As D&G has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to D&G includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In December 2022, Mr G made a claim under his appliance insurance policy with D&G 
because there was a fault in the small oven of his cooker.
D&G arranged for an engineer to visit to assess and repair the oven. Mr G says the engineer 
didnt attend on 3 January as he was supposed to. So, another appointment was made for 
17 February, which was the next available date when he or his wife could be at home.
Mr G called D&G on 17 January 2023 as hed received an email saying the job had been 
completed, even though no engineer had looked at the oven. During the call, he raised a 
formal complaint with D&G.
In response to his complaint, D&G said that, according to the engineer, his initial 
appointment didnt go ahead as expected because Mr G had requested a later date. The 
appointment was rescheduled for 17 February, but the repair agent had promised to call Mr 
G to discuss the rescheduling of this.  D&G said it would be sending Mr G £50 within five to 
seven working days as a gesture of goodwill for the time hed spent without a working 
appliance.
Mr G says the engineer didnt attend the appointment on 17 February, and he didnt receive 
the £50 D&G had promised in its response to his complaint. So, he asked our service to 
consider the matter. 
D&G told us that the award of £50 was calculated incorrectly and hadnt been processed. It 
said the award should have been £90, but it had now sent Mr G £198 to his bank account. 
Our investigator let Mr G know about this payment but that didnt resolve the situation for 
him. He said he wanted D&G to repair the cooker, in line with the terms of the policy.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. 
He wasnt satisfied that an engineer had visited Mr Gs property to repair the oven and 
recommended that D&G contact him to arrange a repair as soon as possible. He didnt 
recommend any compensation as he thought the £198 D&G had already paid Mr G was 
sufficient. 
Mr G accepted our investigators outcome. However, D&G didnt respond. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy say:
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option) do one of the 
following: authorise a repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement 
product.
Mr G says an engineer was initially booked to visit his property on 3 January 2023. However, 
when his wife spoke to the engineer on that date, he told her that head office had messed up 
the booking and he would need to come the following day. This wasnt convenient for Mr G 
or his wife. Mr G says the next available date that his wife could be at home was                 
17 February, so the appointment was rearranged for that date. 
D&G has provided screenshots showing confirmation emails for engineer visits to take place 
on 3 January, 4 January and 17 February 2023. I think these emails support what Mr G has 
said about the appointments being rearranged. 
D&Gs records show estimate notes on 17 January 2023 with some parts listed and a 
labour cost. The notes say: Fixed without parts: Fitted element from stock.
Mr G called D&G the same day because hed received an email saying the job had been 
completed. Ive listened to a recording of that call. Mr G was concerned about this email as 
he said nobody had even looked at the oven. D&Gs representative tried to arrange for an 
engineer from a different repair agent to visit Mr G. However, she said she wasnt able to 
arrange this. She said the repair agent had sent D&G an invoice saying a part was being 
fitted, so it needed to keep the same repair agent.
Mr G expressed his concern that the repair agent had sent an invoice, when nobody had 
visited to assess the oven. D&Gs representative tried to book in an earlier appointment for 
an engineer to visit, but the date she found wasnt convenient. Mr G decided to stick with 17 
February as his wife had booked the day off work. 
Mr G said he wasnt so concerned about the date of the appointment. He was more 
concerned about the people involved in repairing his oven as theyd submitted an invoice for 
work that hadnt been completed. He asked to raise a formal complaint.
Ive listened to a recording of the complaint handlers conversation with the repair agent. The 
complaint handler queried why the system notes said an engineer attended the property 
when Mr G said they hadnt. The repair agent said the system showed the part had been 
dispatched. The appointment was booked in for 4 January, but the engineer notes said the 
customer wanted a later date, so they moved it to 17 February. The complaints handler 
asked if the date could be moved forward. The agent said theyd call the engineer, and the 
engineer would call Mr G. 
I dont think the complaint handler properly understood Mr Gs concerns. Its clear from Mr 
Gs conversation with D&G on 17 January that he wasnt asking for the appointment to be 
moved forward. His concern was that the repair agent had invoiced D&G for a part, when an 
engineer hadnt been around to assess what was wrong with the oven. Mr G said he thought this was fraudulent. I think the complaint handler should have challenged the repair agent on 
what theyd said about a part being ordered. It seems unlikely that an engineer would know 
what part needed to be replaced, without ever having seen the oven. 
In its most recent email to our service, D&G said that according to its records a repair had 
been carried out as it had received an invoice and repair system notes, showing that an 
element was fitted from stock. 
D&G has provided a screenshot from its system which says: Fitted element from stock and 
a date settled: 26/01/23. However, when Mr G last contacted us in May 2023, he said the 
repair still hadnt been completed. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think D&Gs records are accurate. The note of 17 
January saying that the cooker had been fixed without parts: fitted element from stock not 
only conflicts with what Mr G has said. It also contradicts what the repair agent said in the 
call of 23 January about the appointment being booked in for 17 February. Ive seen no 
evidence to show that this appointment was ever moved forward. And Mr G says the 
engineer didnt turn up on 17 February either. 
Overall, I think the service Mr G has received from D&G has been extremely poor. It hasnt 
arranged repairs or a replacement cooker as it should have done in line with the terms of the 
policy. Its failed to engage with Mr Gs concerns or acknowledge its inaccurate records. Its 
disappointing that D&G didnt respond to our investigators outcome. So, as far as Im aware 
the repairs still havent been carried out.
From what Ive seen and been told, the faulty oven is part of a cooker which has three 
ovens. So, the issue appears to have limited use of the cooker, rather than prevented it from 
being used at all. However, this experience has no doubt been frustrating for Mr G and hes 
been inconvenienced by having to spend trying to sort the matter out with D&G. 
I think the £198 D&G has paid Mr G is enough to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced so far. However, D&G is also required to fulfil the terms of 
the policy and deal with Mr Gs claim. This means it needs to assess whats wrong with the 
cooker and either repair it, replace it or pay the cost of a replacement. As a visit from an 
engineer doesnt appear to have happened, D&G should arrange for this to take place as 
soon as possible, at a time that is convenient for Mr G. 
Putting things right
D&G should deal with the claim, in line with the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman