DRN-3134083
The complaint
Mr G has complained to Greenlight Credit Limited trading as Varooma regarding its 
actions following the agreement of a log book loan. 
What happened
Mr G took out a log book loan with Varooma. The loan was granted on the basis that Mr G 
provided Varooma with a bill of sale for his car, along with other documentation and his 
spare car key. On completion of the loan, the key was returned to Mr G in an envelope. 
When Mr G needed to use the spare key, some months later, he found that he had been 
given someone elses car key in error.
Mr G complains about this and the steps Varooma took to put things right for him. In brief, 
Varooma posted Mr Gs spare key to the address it had on file for him. Hed moved since 
then, and the key went to a post office. Mr G had to collect it from there and he incurred 
costs. He also had to pay for taxis to get to work while he was without his spare key. In 
addition, Mr G was worried his spare car key had been sent to someone else and he 
expressed concern that Varooma had breached regulations around general data protection 
(commonly known as GDPR).
I understand that Varooma reimbursed Mr G an amount of £14 to cover his travel costs to 
the post office to collect his key and the costs of returning the car key he held which 
belonged to someone else. Mr G didnt accept this as a full resolution and brought his 
complaint to us. He asked for reimbursement of his taxi fares to work and compensation for 
the stress, anxiety and overall problems he incurred.   
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and found that Varooma had made an 
error in sending Mr G the wrong key. It then complicated matters by sending his spare car 
key to an old address, which meant he had to take steps to collect it. Mr G said hed paid 
£25 on taxis to get to and from work while waiting for his key. 
Our investigator recommended that Varooma reimburse Mr G for the money he spent on 
taxis to get to work and pay him an amount of £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
the matter had caused him. They said that any concerns Mr G had about Varooma not 
complying with GDPR were best taken up with the Information Commissioners Office (the 
ICO). 
Varooma accepted our investigators findings, as did Mr G. However, Mr G asked for his 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the case arent in dispute so I wont set out what happened in great detail. I want 
to reassure both parties that I have reviewed all the information available to me and taken 
into consideration everything thats been said. 
In brief, I understand Mr G told Varooma hed received the wrong key on 28 September 
2020 . Varooma apologised and posted the correct key to him the next day. Ive seen an 
email dated the 6 November 2020 in which Varooma tells Mr G he will need to collect his key 
from a post office. 
Im satisfied that Varooma apologised to Mr G when it realised its error and took steps to 
rectify things as soon as possible. I think its likely that Mr G was left without access to his 
car for a number of days and that he incurred costs to stay mobile. I accept that this matter 
caused him worry and inconvenience. I appreciate that Varooma refunded some costs to 
Mr G, but I think its fair that it refunds him for his costs to stay mobile while he waited for his 
car key and also that it pays him an amount to reflect the emotional impact this matter has 
had on him. 
Mr G hasnt provided any receipts for his taxis to and from work but, as Varooma were 
happy to accept Mr Gs estimate of £25 for these costs, I think its reasonable for me to do 
likewise. Ive borne in mind our approach to awards for distress and inconvenience (as set 
out on our website) and in line with that I agree with our investigator that an amount of £100 
is appropriate in this case. 
I also think that any concerns Mr G has about data protection are best dealt with by the ICO.
  
Putting things right
In summary, in order to resolve the complaint for Mr G, Varooma should pay him:
£25 to cover the costs he says he incurred in taxi fares to get to work; and
£100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about Greenlight Credit 
Limited trading as Varooma and require it to put things right for him as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman