DRN-3518962
The complaint
Miss D complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Miss D as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayable Loan 
status
June 2018 £1,000 18 months £118.04 £2,124.72 Believed to be 
outstanding 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans had done 
anything wrong when it provided Miss D with the loan. 
Through her representative, Miss D disputed the adjudicators assessment and asked for a 
final decision by an ombudsman. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Miss Ds complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say 
what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate 
checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint. 
Everyday Loans gathered information from Miss D by asking her about her income and 
expenses before it agreed to lend to her and looking at some of her recent bank statements. 
It checked Miss Ds credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and 
credit history. It also relied on statistical information to compare Miss Ds income and 
expenditure against national data showing typical spending for someone in the same 
situation and boosted this to include a buffer to allow a safety margin in the event of 
variation in income and expenditure. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was 
satisfied that the loan was affordable for Miss D. 
But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont think that 
Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision when it provided this loan. 
I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account what Miss Ds credit history and the 
information it saw in the bank statements revealed about her overall financial situation. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Everyday Loans couldve seen from the credit report it obtained that within the last 
couple of months Miss D had taken out a loan for £1,000 with another provider of expensive 
credit as well as two new credit cards  which she had quickly run up credit on. It was 
apparent from her bank statements that she was often overdrawn despite the funds in her 
account being boosted by the £1,000 loan paid in at the end of April and she frequently 
incurred daily overdraft fees. This was worrying information, especially bearing in mind that 
Miss D had been in her job for a number of years and she was living with her parents and 
paying no rent. 
I've taken into account that after reviewing all the information it had gathered, Everyday 
Loans was only prepared to lend Miss D half the amount she had applied for. But this 
doesnt mean that the loan it did agree was fairly provided. 
Despite what Everyday Loans income and expenditure assessment suggested it was clear 
I think from the other information it had gathered that in actuality Miss D had no spare 
income at all. I think the information Everyday Loans gathered overall painted a picture of 
someone struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear warning 
signs that Miss D was already experiencing serious financial difficulty  so it shouldve 
realised that further lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for her. I think this is borne out also by the fact that when Everyday Loans carried out credit checks it 
noted Miss Ds existing creditor repayments were at least £467 on the figures it recorded. 
Everyday Loans should have realised that Miss D was already paying around 45% of her 
take home pay just on servicing her existing debt. To me, that was a clear warning sign that 
she was over-reliant on credit. With the monthly repayments for her new loan on top of this, 
Miss D would now have to pay well over half her net salary towards debt repayment. Given 
the loan term, and the evidence that she was already struggling financially, I think that this 
was such a significant proportion of Miss Ds monthly disposable income Everyday Loans 
couldnt reasonably say it was likely that Miss D would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. All the signs were that Miss D was over-stretched financially and unable to 
effectively manage debt she was already responsible for paying  and this loan would mean 
paying an even bigger proportion of her income towards servicing her debt. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan would be used for debt 
consolidation  in other words, Miss D said she wanted to use the loan to repay other debt.
But Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Miss D used the loan as it paid the loan 
balance to her. 
And even if Miss D had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Everyday 
Loans had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved her overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation. 
I think the scale of her overall debt compared to the much lesser value of the loan and the 
extent of her evident reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that she would 
remain in serious financial trouble regardless. Also, as mentioned above, it was in any event 
unrealistic to expect her to be able to commit to paying such a significant level of income 
towards debt repayments over the 18 month loan term.
So I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Everyday Loans to lend even this reduced loan 
amount to Miss D, in the face of clear evidence that Miss Ds debt wasnt sustainably 
affordable. 
So, for all these reasons, I plan to say that I uphold Miss Ds complaint that she should not 
have been given the loans and that Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put 
things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss D hasnt commented on my provisional decision. 
Everyday Loans has confirmed it agrees my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Everyday Loans in particular for reconsidering its position and responding to confirm its 
agreement with my provisional decision. In the circumstances, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I havent seen enough to make me think that Everyday Loans acted towards Miss D in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss D to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Miss D shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt, it should try to buy this back if able to do 
so and then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss D received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss D made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss D having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss D keeping in mind its 
obligation always to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
Everyday Loans should not seek to recover from Miss D any principal amount 
already written off.  
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ds credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Miss D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman