DRN-2654999
The complaint
Mrs M complains that the car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She is also unhappy that the 
car appears not to be covered by a warranty, despite it being advertised as having one at 
the time of sale.
What happened
In October 2018, Mrs M acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement 
with SMF. The car was three years old and had a mileage of 75,500 miles. The car 
was advertised as having a 15-month warranty.
In January 2018, the car required repairs as Mrs M overfilled the diesel exhaust fluid 
leading to a kit injector being replaced. Mrs M paid for this repair.
The car broke-down in September 2019 and an Incorrect DEF quality warning was 
displayed on the dashboard. Mrs M tried to contact the dealership that had supplied the 
car to enquire about the warranty. Unfortunately, the dealership didnt answer Mrs Ms 
calls as it had ceased trading.
Mrs M made enquiries with the organisation she thought covered the warranty but 
found it didnt cover her car.
Mrs M took the car to a specialist garage who undertook diagnostics and found that the 
cars NOx sensor needed replacing. Mrs M authorised repairs and complained to SMF 
about the quality of the car and the lack of the warranty. The repairs for the NOx sensor 
were around £1,1000.
SMF didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said she hadnt given it an opportunity to 
investigate the problem before having the car repaired. It also said that, as Mrs M had 
now had the car in her possession for nearly a year and driven an additional 16,000 miles 
in it, there wasnt enough evidence to show that the car had either had a fault or was 
developing one at the point of sale. So, it couldnt be said the car had been of 
unsatisfactory quality when Mrs M acquired it. 
SMF said that the dealership would have dealt with the warranty, so it was unable to 
assist with this part of her complaint.
Mrs M was unhappy at SMFs response and complained to this service. She also 
explained that as there had been a change in to her financial circumstances and she was 
currently unable to collect the car from the garage due to the size of the outstanding 
repair invoice. A relative had, in the meantime, supplied her with an alternative car to use 
which she had had to tax and insure. 
Mrs M also said the car had had a number of faults which had been picked up at the 
health-check carried out by the repairing garage, and she didnt think it was fit for purpose. 
The garage had also supplied proof that the nitrogen oxide sensor (NOx sensor) failure 
wasnt a wear and tear item but a mechanical fault. Mrs M said she would never have 
bought the car if it hadnt come with a warranty. She said she thought it would be fair for 
SMF to pay for the repair to the NOx sensor, reimburse her the tax and insurance 
payments for the second car she was now using, together with any payments she had 
made under the agreement since shed not been able to make use of the car since 
September 2019.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. 
He said he had made checks about the repair undertaken in January 2018, and the 
garage had confirmed this was due to Mrs Ms actions and so he thought it was fair she 
had paid that invoice.
In respect of the warranty our investigator said that, although Mrs M had provided a 
screenshot of the advert for the car, she hadnt been able to provide any of the paperwork 
for the car. He said he didnt have enough evidence to say that a warranty hadnt been 
provided to Mrs M. It also wasnt possible to say that, if there was a warranty, it would 
have covered the fault with the NOx sensor. Our investigator said he didnt think SMFs 
stance had been unfair as the dealership was no longer trading and so it couldnt liaise 
with them about that.
Our investigator said that he had spoken with the repairing garage about the fault with 
the NOx sensor and the technician had explained this wasnt a part that routinely 
required replacement or repair. It had developed a mechanical fault which had caused 
its failure. He said that he found the evidence provided by Mrs M persuasive that a fault 
had either been present or developing at the point of sale. Our investigator 
recommended that SMF should do the following:
Pay for the repairs to the NOx sensor
Reimburse Mrs M any payments made under the agreement while the car was 
at the garage
Refund the tax and insurance Mrs M was paying for the second car
Pay Mrs M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
dealing with the faulty car.
SMF disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said there was no evidence the issue 
with NOx sensor resulted from an inherent fault with the part, particularly as Mrs M had 
been able to drive the car for 16,000 miles over 11 months.
As the parties were unable to agree then the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines:
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I was not bound by them when I considered what was fair and reasonable .
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs M was a regulated consumer 
credit agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. SMF was 
also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of 
the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being just over three-years old and with a mileage of 
75,500. I thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would 
have expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair since components of 
the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, 
there wouldnt be expectation that the car was fault free.
Id seen the health-check undertaken by the repairing garage in October 2019 and, 
looking at this, the issues raised with the car were all serviceable items as they related 
to tyres, oil levels, brake pads and light bulbs. As the car was by this time 4-years old 
with a mileage of 91,000 I couldnt reasonably say this indicated the car had been in a 
poor condition when Mrs M acquired it in October 2018.
The garage had provided an email stating that the NOx sensor failure wasnt due to wear 
and tear but was an internal failure of the part. Id also listened to the conversation 
between our investigator and the technician that repaired the car. The technician said that 
the part can become defective but not routinely and that a failure could happen any 
time, that it wasnt predictable and was something that can just happen. They also 
said that once the sensor became faulty it would show as a warning on the dashboard, 
but that extensive tests and investigations were then needed when the warning 
illuminated to establish that it was the NOx sensor at fault.
So, although I appreciated this was going to be of disappointment to Mrs M, I didnt agree 
with our investigators view that the evidence showed that it was more likely than not that 
the NOx sensor was either faulty or developing a fault at the point of sale. I thought from 
what the technician had said that a NOx sensor could fail at any time and, when it did, the 
warning light would illuminate on the dashboard. I thought that if the NOx sensor had been 
faulty at the point of sale then Mrs M wouldnt have been able to use the car as much and 
for as long as she had before the fault had become obvious. I thought it was more likely 
than not that the fault developed shortly before the warning was displayed on the 
dashboard in or around September 2019.
However, even if a fault hadnt been present at the point of sale, I had to look at the 
durability of the car and what a reasonable person would reasonably expect in regard to 
the car requiring repairs. So, I thought it was fair to take into account that Mrs M had had 
the car for 11 months and driven an additional 16,000 miles before the fault arose.  I also 
thought it was fair to say Mrs M had been able to use the car since she had acquired it. 
Looking at the evidence I thought a reasonable person would expect the need for repairs 
to arise with a car that was four-years old and had a mileage of 91,500.
I appreciated the NOx sensor was not a part that has a life expectancy and so would be 
changed at certain times during the life of the car. I took into account what the technician 
said that, although it wasnt a part that routinely needed changing, it was a part that could 
and did fail from time to time. I also thought the technician was clear that they werent 
able to say why it had failed on this occasion as there could have been a number of 
reasons. And, although the technician said once replaced, the expectation was that it 
shouldnt fail again, I didnt think that showed the part shouldnt have experienced a fail in 
the first place.So, for the reasons given above, I didnt think I had sufficient evidence to say that a 
reasonable person would consider that the part shouldnt have failed in a car of that age 
and mileage and that the car hadnt been durable. And I wasnt intending to ask SMF to 
reimburse Mrs M the cost of the repairs.
I appreciated that Mrs M wasnt able to collect the car from the garage for several months 
due to her financial circumstances and the cost of the invoice. But I didnt think I could 
fairly hold SMF liable for that, so I wasnt going to ask it to reimburse any of the monthly 
payments Mrs M had made while the car was at the garage.
Mrs M hadnt disagreed with the findings of our investigator about the warranty, and I 
hadnt seen any evidence that would lead me to reach a different conclusion to the one he 
had reached. Without the cars paperwork that would have been given to Mrs M at the time 
the car was sold to her I couldnt say whether a warranty had been provided, or whether 
any warranty would have covered this repair.
I was sorry Mrs M had been through a difficult time and paying for this repair would 
be an additional burden but, for the reasons given above, I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
SMF hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my provisional view again. Mrs M has 
expressed her disappointment that I havent agreed with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have fully reviewed my provisional decision and the reasons why I had reached the 
conclusions that I have. As I havent been sent any new information nor asked to reconsider 
the outcomes that I had arrived at, I havent changed my mind.
I appreciate my decision is disappointing to Mrs M and I am sorry about that. I also 
understand this will add a financial burden to her at an already difficult time.
However, although the NOx sensor is not a serviceable part, I am satisfied on the evidence I 
have seen, that this is a part that can require repair for a number of reasons. And, if it does 
require repair, then that doesnt necessarily mean a car has an inherent fault or an issue with 
its durability. 
Here the reasons for the failure are unknown, and, as set out above, I therefore dont have 
enough evidence to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at its point of sale.
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman