DRN-2850587
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) gave him a second credit 
card even though he had a credit card with them already and was struggling financially.
What happened
Mr C had a credit card with Barclaycard which he says he used in full.
In March 2017 Mr C applied for a second credit card with Barclaycard and was given one 
with a credit limit of £10,000. His existing credit card had a limit of £3,000 at the time.
In 2020 Mr C complained to Barclaycard saying that it should have seen that he already had 
a credit card with them and was struggling. He said Barclaycard behaved irresponsibly 
issuing the second credit card as it was unaffordable, and that he had a gambling addiction 
at the time too. He said his bank statements would have shown he was making other 
payments to other creditors too.
Barclaycard looked into Mr Cs complaint and said it didnt agree issuing the second credit 
card was unaffordable or irresponsible given the credit checks it had done. Barclaycard also 
said that it was Mr Cs decision to use the card  all it had done was agree to give him an 
additional credit limit which didnt increase his debt levels. Mr C was unhappy with 
Barclaycards response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and, having asked for additional 
information about his finances and circumstances at the time, said that they thought 
Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly. Our investigator thought that Barclaycard should have 
done more checks as his existing credit card with them showed he was charged an over limit 
fee in February and March 2017 and the balance on the card was made up mostly of cash 
advances. Our investigator thought that had Barclaycard done more checks, it would have 
seen that Mr C had opened a credit card elsewhere in November 2016 and would have seen 
from his statements that he was heavily reliant on his overdraft facility and was repaying 
other borrowing. Our investigator thought that would have led Barclaycard to come to the 
conclusion, given what was going on with Mr Cs finances, that further borrowing was 
unsustainable.
Barclaycard disagreed saying that all the checks it had done showed the second credit card 
was affordable. Barclaycard asked for an ombudsman to look into Mr Hs complaint. So 
thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Barclaycard carried out a number of checks  including calculating Mr Cs 
disposable income  and based on those checks it would have offered him more credit than 
it actually did. In this case, however, I dont agree that those checks were reasonable and 
proportionate. I say this because Mr C already had a credit card with Barclaycard and in the 
three months before he applied for the second card hed not only gone over his limit but was 
also taking out a large number of cash advances which is typically a sign of financial 
difficulties. I agree with our investigator that this should have prompted Barclaycard to do 
additional checks beyond the ones they did as these were signs Mr Hs finances were not in 
a good state  such checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
Had Barclaycard carried out additional checks, Im satisfied that it would have seen Mr C 
was not only relying on his existing overdraft and taking out borrowing elsewhere but was 
also repaying existing borrowing from a number of sources in addition to the issues he was 
having managing his existing credit card. More importantly, Im satisfied that Barclaycard 
would have come to the conclusion that further lending was unsustainable. In other words, 
Im satisfied that Barclaycard wouldnt have gone ahead and issued a second credit card to 
Mr C. So its fair that hes put back into the position he would have been  in so far as that is 
possible  had Barclaycard not done so.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended the following steps, namely that:
1. Barclaycard should refund all the interest and charges Mr C has paid to date in 
relation to the second credit card so that a new starting balance consisting of only the 
amount lent is left.
2. Barclaycard should deduct any payments already made.
3. If, after Step 2, Mr C has already paid too much then the overpayment should be 
refunded, adding 8% simple interest. If there remains an outstanding capital balance, 
Barclaycard should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and / or 
charges.
4. Barclaycard should amend Mr Cs credit file to remove the second credit card.I think the steps our investigator recommended are a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, so those are the steps Im going to require Barclaycard to take in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. Barclaycard will have to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr C if there is an outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to carry out the four steps outlined 
above in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman