DRN-3224295
The complaint
Mr H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made an error when setting up his 
motor insurance policy which meant that he was driving uninsured for several days. 
What happened
Mr H called UKI and set up a motor insurance policy. He was quoted a premium and agreed 
to pay for it monthly via direct debit. About a week later, Mr H checked his online banking 
and noticed that no money had been taken by UKI. He called UKI but it told him there was 
no policy set up in his name. After some discussion UKI agreed to set up another policy, and 
it investigated what happened to the original policy. 
During its investigation, UKI discovered an error had occurred and the original policy was 
never set up. UKI apologised and said it wouldve offered indemnity if anything had 
happened in the days Mr H was left without insurance. UKI also offered Mr H £50.00 
compensation for the upset caused.  
But Mr H remained unhappy. He says UKI accused him of lying. He says this situation has 
left him very stressed and hes now continually checking to make sure hes insured. He says 
this is the second issue hes had in 24 months with an insurer and its left him paranoid. He 
says he keeps thinking about the danger he couldve put his family in. He says he couldve 
been fined or prosecuted, and his life couldve been ruined. 
Mr H complained to our service and an investigator looked at the complaint. But the 
investigator said the UKI had done enough to put things right for Mr H. 
Mr H doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the shock Mr H mustve felt when he realised hed been 
driving around uninsured for a number of days. I know Mr H was very worried when he found 
out what had happened and I understand why Mr H feels so angry with UKI.
I also want to acknowledge that once UKI realised that it had made an error it made amends 
immediately. Ive looked at the file and Mr H called UKI on 3 September 2021 to raise an 
issue. He was offered new cover and UKI started its investigation. This investigation was 
completed and UKI realised its mistake by 7 September 2021, four days later. It concluded 
that the start date of the original policy wasnt checked, so the policy never actually started. I 
can see UKI attempted a number of times over the next few days to speak to Mr H via 
telephone. But it doesnt look like it was successful. UKI sent its final response to Mr H on 23 
September 2021, it acknowledged its error, it assured Mr H that he would be indemnified for 
the days he was without cover, and it offered to pay Mr H £50 for the distress caused.
The crux of the issue is Mr H doesnt think £50 is enough. He says he was placed in a 
potentially catastrophic and dangerous situation. He says UKI hasnt taken him seriously and 
hes suffered stress and anxiety because of UKIs error. He says this, added to a recent bad 
experience hes had with another insurer, has left him paranoid, and £50 is insulting.
I understand Mr Hs frustration and distress. And I agree that this error couldve had far 
reaching consequences for Mr H if he hadnt realised what had happened. But when I look at 
a case like this, I need to consider everything that's actually happened not everything that 
could have happened. If I decide to award compensation, I will say what level of award 
would be fair overall to put right the impact a mistake has had on Mr H as an individual.
Typically, an apology or small monetary award of less than £100 will fairly compensate a 
one-off incident or occurrence. And even though what happened here couldve been so 
much worse, the reality is that it was a one-off error and the impact on Mr H was minimal. 
Yes, Mr H wasnt on cover for several days, but nothing happened during those days, and 
we cant compensate Mr H for what mightve happened. Further to this, once he discovered 
there was a potential issue, Mr H got cover straight away from UKI. So, he wasnt placed in 
any further danger. And once UKI realised its error, it put up its hand, admitted the error, put 
an indemnity in place and offered to pay compensation.
I know Mr H says hes paranoid after experiencing other issues with other insurers. But I can 
only take into account this one-off incident and what specifically happened here. I do agree 
that the compensation amount is on the lower scale of what we wouldve liked to see UKI 
offer. But taking everything into account and looking at similar types of cases we would see, 
Im satisfied that the amount UKI has offered is still within the range of compensation wed 
expect to see for this type of error. I know Mr H will be disappointed with this, and I do 
acknowledge this couldve ended up really badly for him  luckily it didnt. But in this specific 
instance I think UKI has acted fairly and I wont be asking UKI to do any more.
Mr H did mention that he has yet to receive any compensation from UKI. So, if it hasnt 
already raised a cheque for £50, UKI should now do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman