DRN-4038640
The complaint
Mrs S complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc {SJP} advised her to sell 
her offshore investment bond and invest the proceeds into unit trusts and ISAs but failed to 
take into account any potential impact this may have on means tested care costs in the 
future.
What happened
Mrs S held an offshore investment bond and met with SJP to review her needs as she had 
recently retired and wasnt paying income tax. SJP recommended that Mrs S sell the 
offshore investment bond and invest into an ISA and a Unit Trust feeder account. SJP said 
this would provide for a tax efficient income and capital growth during retirement.
Several years later, Mrs S husband heard that investment bonds werent taken into account 
by local authorities when assessing care costs. He spoke with SJP and says that a partner 
told him the investments Mrs S held were protected. Mrs S later found out that Unit Trusts 
and ISAs werent treated in the same way and complained to SJP that she hadnt been told 
this. SJP said the recommendations it made in 2016 met Mrs S needs at the time and it 
couldnt have foreseen Mrs Ss need for care costs as she was in good health. SJP 
acknowledged that in 2021 it had provided information that would have caused confusion for 
Mrs S and offered to pay her £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
SJP also paid Mrs S £300 as a goodwill gesture for the delay in dealing with her complaint.
Mrs S brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the advice SJP provided to 
Mrs S in 2016 was suitable as there was nothing to indicate there would be a need to 
provide for care costs in the near future. The Investigator thought the investments were 
made in line with the needs Mrs S and SJP agreed at the time and were suitable. The 
Investigator acknowledged the £200 offer SJP made regarding the incorrect information it 
provided in 2021 but thought that this didnt take into account that the same SJP partner had 
also told Mrs S husband in 2019 that investment bonds were protected from being included 
in means testing for care costs. In view of this, the Investigator thought SJP should pay Mrs 
£500 for the two instances of miscommunication and the distress and inconvenience this 
caused.
Neither Mrs S nor SJP agreed with the Investigator and as both parties asked for an 
Ombudsman to decide the complaint, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs S will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as our 
Investigator, Ive decided the advice SJP provided in 2016 was suitable. However, Ive 
decided that SJP should pay Mrs S £500 for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs S 
when it provided incorrect information in 2019 and 2021. I will now explain why.
By way of background, a partner of SJP had previously recommended Mrs S invest into an 
offshore investment bond when he was an Independent Financial Advisor. When, several 
years later, another qualified partner with SJP met with Mrs S in 2016, the agreed priorities 
recorded in the Confidential Financial Review document were: to invest in tax efficient 
products using ISA allowances to generate capital growth over a 10-year period and to 
supplement Mrs Ss income in retirement if needs be. Shortly after the meeting SJP provided 
Mrs S with a letter explaining why it had recommended the investments it did along with the 
key features and illustrations relating to the products recommended. 
The crux of the complaint is Mrs S believes SJP didnt consider the impact of selling the 
offshore investment bond should Mrs S need to claim means tested benefits for care costs. 
Unfortunately, Mrs S has suffered from health issues that may result in her having to be 
assessed for claim care costs in the near future.
Ive considered comments from Mrs S that the investments were to be for the benefit of her 
and her husband, and I accept that this may have been her intention. However, the offshore 
investment bond and the investments made from 2016 were in Mrs S name only, even if this 
was for tax purposes only. This means that although Mrs S could use the investments held 
in her name to fund care costs for her husband if she wanted to, its unlikely that investments 
held in Mrs S name only would be assessed for care costs for Mr S.
SJP identified and agreed Mrs S needs in 2016  these were identified as tax efficiency, 
growth and potential income in retirement. Its not disputed care costs werent discussed at 
this time. However, the financial review document completed at the meeting recorded Mrs S 
had recently retired and that she was in good health. Its not my role to suggest alternative 
recommendations in a complaint like this one, instead I have to assess whether the 
recommendations were suitable at the time they were made. I empathise with Mrs S view 
that had the funds had been left in the offshore investment bond its more likely than not that 
they wouldnt be assessed against care costs - but this is with the benefit of hindsight. At the 
time, SJP didnt believe leaving the funds invested in an offshore investment bond was a 
suitable way for Mrs S to meet her needs. So, in regard to the crux of Mrs S complaint, and 
taking the information from the time into account, Im satisfied that SJP provided suitable 
advice to meet the agreed needs for Mrs S in 2016. 
It seems to me that in 2019, there was more likely than not a discussion between Mrs S 
husband and the SJP partner who recommended the offshore investment bond several 
years earlier. Although SJP says there is little to no evidence of this happening, it has 
referred to a conversation that took place in 2019 which the partner believed was more of a 
generic statement as to whether bonds are treated as income for local authority 
assessment. Whilst there is no recording of what was said in this discussion, it does seem 
more likely than not that the partner and Mrs S husband discussed investments bonds and 
means tested benefits. 
In 2021, Mrs S husband emailed the partner who had recommended the offshore 
investment bond to explain Mrs S health condition and asked for clarity regarding means 
tested care cost benefits. Initially the SJP partner provided information that didnt relate to 
the investments now held by Mrs S. The SJP partner accepted this was an error as he 
hadnt taken into account the offshore investment bond had been sold and replaced with the 
new investments in 2016 on the recommendation of another SJP partner from the business. 
The partner quickly apologised for not checking which investments Mrs S held before 
sending out the incorrect product details.
SJP provided incorrect information about the investments on two occasions. On both 
occasions, it seems likely to me the information was provided without the partner first 
checking the investments held by Mrs S. Although SJP feels that its offer to pay Mrs S £200 was a fair and reasonable one, I dont think this offer reflects that incorrect information was 
provided on two occasions. There was no reason for Mrs S to believe the SJP partner hadnt 
checked her investments in 2019 before giving information on how offshore investment 
bonds would be treated if a care cost assessment was required. Even if this was intended to 
be generic at the time, it seems the discussion left Mrs S feeling she had some protection in 
this regard. Then, when Mrs S health issues deteriorated in 2021, meaning a significant 
change in circumstances was likely in the near future, Mrs S wouldve been shocked when 
SJP finally told her that her investments may be taken into account for any means tested 
care cost assessment. In view of this, I think SJP should pay Mrs S £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused her when an SJP partner provided incorrect information on two 
separate occasions. 
For completeness, Mrs S has already accepted an offer from SJP for the delay in dealing 
with her complaint. As complaint handling is not a regulated activity, Im not able to comment 
any further on this particular matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided that St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc should pay Mrs S £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused when it 
provided incorrect information about her investments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman