DRN-2626604
The complaint
Ms C has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt properly deal 
with a leak under her home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Ms C contacted British Gas to deal with a leak that had cause the floor to rise in a bathroom. 
An engineer attended and found that water was getting behind the shower plate, so he 
repaired it. 
About two months later, Ms C contacted British Gas again because the floor had now risen 
in the bedroom. This engineer found a leak under the floor by the hand basin and also on the 
feed to the shower. He repaired them. However, very shortly after, Ms C had to get a private 
plumber to visit because there was still a leak.
The private plumber said that although British Gas had attempted a repair to the feed to the 
shower, this had been done incorrectly as silicone had been applied, which was poor 
practice. The private plumber removed the silicone, disconnected the joint and replaced the 
olive that had failed.
Ms C complained to British Gas because she said it should have dealt with all the leaks at 
the first visit. British Gas sent a manager to inspect the damage. When British Gas replied to 
Ms Cs complaint it said that the original leak had caused an element of property damage to 
Ms Cs flooring. It then arranged to fix the shower leak when this happened a few months 
later. It said that it wasnt liable for the leak that caused the damage because it was 
consequential to the first leak. It advised Ms C to make a claim on her home insurance for 
the damage. British Gas offered £150 as a gesture of goodwill because Ms C had to call out 
a third party to carry out a repair and for the distress and inconvenience caused by how it 
dealt with Ms Cs complaint.
Ms C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that he 
didnt think that the first British Gas engineer had done enough to locate the leak in the feed 
from the shower. However, he thought that Ms C was always likely to have to make a claim 
on her home. He said British Gas should pay an additional £150 compensation because it 
didnt do what it should have when it first visited to deal with the leak.
British Gas said that the amount of compensation it had already offered was enough in the 
circumstances, so the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
My understanding is that British Gas found three different leaks. At the first visit, the 
engineer found a leak behind the shower plate and repaired it. The leak then seemed to 
stop. However, two months later, Ms C found that the floor had now risen in the bedroom. 
When British Gas visited the second time, it found leaks under the floor by the hand basin 
and from the shower pipework.
Ms C has said that she thinks that during its first visit British Gas should have found and 
repaired the leak that caused the bedroom floor damage. So, Ive thought about this. When 
British Gas visited the second time, this was because damage was found in a new location. 
The leaks that the second engineer found were also different to the one found by the first 
engineer. So, I think the first engineers repair was successful for the leak that he found.
Although I can understand that having three leaks in the same bathroom within a short time 
period might seem unusual, this doesnt in itself persuade me that the leaks that were found 
at the second visit were there during the first visit or that if the first engineer had investigated 
further that he would have found them. At each visit the source of the leaks seems to have 
been different and so was the location of the damage. So, I dont currently think this 
suggests that the leaks found at the second visit were more likely that not there at the first 
visit and could have been located if the first engineer had investigated further. 
Ive also thought about British Gas applying a sealant to deal with the leak during the second 
visit. The private plumber has said the sealant was silicone, which was an inappropriate 
product to use. British Gas has said it was a particular jointing compound, rather than 
silicone. Ive checked the details of that product and it does appear to be a silicone based 
sealant. However, regardless of that, the repair failed and the private plumber carried out a 
different repair in order to fix the leak.
So, I dont think that the second British Gas engineer carried out a suitable repair, as what 
he did should have lasted but the leak started again very shortly after his visit. Ms C then 
had the inconvenience of getting a private plumber to fix the leak, when I think she had a 
reasonable expectation that British Gas would already have properly dealt with it.
Ive also thought about the damage. I havent seen anything that currently causes me to 
think that the water leak damage found in the bathroom was down to British Gas actions. 
Ive already said that I also havent seen evidence that the leaks found at the second visit 
were there when the first engineer visited, so I dont think I can fairly say that British Gas 
was responsible for the damage found in the bedroom. However, British Gas may have 
made that damage worse by failing to carry out a successful repair during the second visit. 
But, Im aware that the private plumber visited soon after British Gas engineer and fixed the 
leak.
Im aware that Ms C ended up making a claim on her home insurance. I think that Ms C was 
likely to have to do this regardless of British Gas failure to properly repair the second leak, 
as the bathroom floor and bedroom floor were both damaged anyway. So, I dont think 
British Gas was responsible for Ms C having to make a home insurance claim or for the 
majority of the damage that was claimed for, although it may well have added to it.
However, Im also aware that at one stage British Gas told Ms C not to claim on her home 
insurance as it said it would deal with the damage. British Gas then changed its mind and 
said Ms C should make a home insurance claim. I can see that this would have potentially 
delayed Ms C making a claim and getting the damage dealt with, which would have added to 
the inconvenience she already had to deal with because of the leaks and the resulting 
damage.
So, thinking about the above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint in part. I dont intend 
to uphold the part about British Gas not finding additional leaks at the first visit. However, I 
think that it didnt carry out an appropriate repair at the second visit, which might have 
caused some additional damage. I also think that British Gas caused Ms C additional 
inconvenience by telling her not to claim on her home insurance and then saying that she 
should do so.As a result, I think that British Gas should pay some compensation. I currently intend to say 
that British Gas should pay Ms C an additional £150 compensation, as I think this more fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to her. To be clear this is £300 in total and 
includes the £150 that British Gas previously offered as a gesture of goodwill.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 12 March 2021. Both parties responded before that date.
Ms C accepted the decision.
British Gas confirmed it had nothing further to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision to uphold this complaint in 
part and for the reasons previously given.
  
Putting things right
As a result, British Gas should pay an additional £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. This is in addition to the £150 that British Gas previously offered.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms C a further 
£150 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman