DRN-3140623
The complaint
Mr M complains Skipton Building Society (Skipton) took a cash deposit from him, without 
counting it in front of him and he disputes the amount they say was deposited.
What happened
Mr M says he visited a branch of Skipton in late February 2021 with an initial cash deposit in 
excess of £2000, to open a savings account with them. Mr M says the cashier who took the 
deposit, took it away to another room to count and then informed him it was £10 short. Mr M 
called Skipton a few days later to complain about this as he felt the cashier should have 
counted the money in front of him. Mr M says he also received a letter from Skipton asking 
him to explain the source of the funds he had deposited and subsequently withdrew the 
same day, and he felt it was unreasonable for Skipton to refuse any further deposits or 
withdrawals until this information was provided. Mr M says after challenging Skipton over this 
matter he has withdrawn the balance and closed his savings account. 
Skipton says the monies deposited were checked by two members of their staff in 
accordance with their procedures and this was counted under a camera. Skipton says they 
legitimately froze the savings account until Mr M had explained the source of the funds, but 
as this was refused they allowed the remaining balance to be withdrawn and the savings 
account was then closed. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Skiptons response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says while it may have been preferable for the cash to have been counted in 
front of Mr M, Skipton have confirmed two members of staff checked the cash deposited by 
Mr M and in all likelihood the amount they credited to his savings account, was correct. The 
investigator felt that Skipton had also acted reasonably when it asked Mr M to provide further 
details of the origins of the deposit as this would be part of their security measures they have 
in place. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked or the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr M to have believed he had paid in £10 more 
than the cashier told him, especially given the cash he deposited wasnt counted in front of 
him. 
When looking as this complaint I will consider if Skipton acted reasonably when they took the 
cash deposit away to be counted, without Mr M being present. Additionally, I will consider if 
Skipton acted fairly when it asked Mr M for details of the source of the funds he had 
deposited, before allowing any further transactions on the savings account. 
Mr Ms main complaint centres around the fact when he opened the savings account at 
Skipton the cash he deposited wasnt counted in front of him. The issue here is that Mr M 
believes he handed over £2200 but was told this sum was £10 short after the member of 
staff returned from the room where the monies were counted. This service has questioned 
Skipton on their standard process for accepting large cash deposits like this, and we have 
been informed their standard process would be for two members of staff to be present in 
front of a customer when counting the cash deposited. 
Here given the impact of Covid, Skiptons procedures only allowed for two people present in 
a separate room at any one time. What happened here was the cash was taken into a 
separate room by two members of staff and counted in the presence of CCTV. Whilst we 
have asked for a copy of that recording, given the time that has passed its no longer 
available and while I know Mr M feels thats important here, I cant comment on something 
thats not available to me. Its reasonable to say that even if the recording had been available 
there is no guarantee it would have definitely confirmed the actual amount deposited.
Its also worth saying, banks and building societies, like many businesses have needed to 
adapt their procedures and processes given the impact COVID has created, and this will 
unfortunately lead to some inconvenience to its customers  but Im satisfied this was 
unavoidable here.
So, when coming to a full and impartial decision on this, Im left to decide what most likely 
happened on that day. Here, two separate members of staff counted the cash using a cash 
counting machine knowing it was being filmed, and I have no reason to doubt what Skipton 
have told me about their procedures. I accept sadly that recording is unavailable, but as I 
say that may not have been conclusive in any event, so on balance I am satisfied the monies 
counted by the members of Skipton staff, in all likelihood totalled what was deposited into Mr 
Ms savings account. 
Mr M has also complained that after he deposited the cash and withdrew it the same day by 
cheque, he was later asked by Skipton to verify the initial source of funds. I understand that 
may have made Mr M feel uncomfortable and he felt it was an unreasonable request. But 
here, I cant say Im persuaded by his argument, as Skipton were carrying out their 
responsibilities and obligations under the guidance set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
when accepting large cash deposits like this.  
I am satisfied Skipton, like most banks would have asked similar questions of any customer 
making such a deposit and they were not singling Mr M out here, as he may have felt. I 
understand Mr M has now closed his savings account with Skipton which of course he was 
free to do. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Skipton. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman