DRN-3170736
The complaint
Mr U complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly without doing sufficient 
affordability checks to assess whether he could reasonably afford the loan. 
What happened
Mr U was given a single loan by UK Credit. Mr U told UK Credit that he would use the 
loan to repay a £200 outstanding payday loan and the rest was to go towards paying 
for car repairs. 
The main loan details were as follows:
Date of 
LoanLoan Amount Loan 
Term 
(months)Monthly 
RepaymentTotal 
amount 
repayable  Loan 
status
31/03/2013 £3,000 36 £143.91 £5,180.76 Paid 
(settled 
early)
When Mr U complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold the complaint so Mr U brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what happened and he felt that this 
was a complaint we should uphold. 
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. It did accept that it didnt do all the checks 
it shouldve done before lending. But it mainly said the loan had looked affordable on the 
figures it gathered and that neither our investigator nor UK Credit had seen anything to 
show that a proportionate check wouldve shown information suggesting that the loan 
wasnt affordable. It said it would reconsider if Mr U provided bank statements that showed 
further information that changed its mind on this point. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Us complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending decision 
shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Us complaint. 
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr U before it agreed the loan. It asked him 
for details of his income and verified this by looking at payslip information. UK Credit 
did a credit check and during a phone call it asked Mr U about his normal monthly 
spending. 
Mr Us monthly income was recorded as £1,451 which seems reasonable to me. His payslip 
confirmed this and Mr U told UK Credit that although he could boost this amount with 
overtime this was a realistic monthly figure for his basic earnings. 
After asking Mr U about a loan and a credit card shown on the credit checks it had carried 
out, UK Credit worked out that Mr U should still have around £492 spare cash left after 
paying for its loan. So UK Credit concluded that the monthly repayment of £143.91 on this 
loan shouldve been affordable for him and this led UK Credit to conclude that it was fair to 
lend to him. 
UK Credit has now acknowledged that it didnt do a proportionate check before agreeing to 
lend. But, I dont need to say anything more about this as it doesnt affect the outcome of this 
complaint. 
The main reason why I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint is because 
I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about what the credit checks revealed about 
Mr Us financial situation. I think its own credit checks painted a picture of someone 
struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that 
Mr U was likely experiencing financial difficulty. And so I dont think UK Credit made a fair 
lending decision on this occasion when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr U based on the 
information it had in front of it. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But UK Credit couldve seen that Mr U had 7 defaulted accounts shown in his credit history. 
His total outstanding credit balance was £17,842. And since he owed around £4,936 on his 
active credit accounts (comprising a loan and a credit card) it was evident that most of this 
balance was defaulted debt. 
I think this was worrying information, especially bearing in mind that Mr U had been in his job 
for a number of years and was living with his parents and paying only £300 board. Along with the other information UK Credit could see that showed Mr U had a track record of taking 
out and repaying expensive credit, I think UK Credit shouldve realised that the information it 
had gathered was significantly at odds with what its credit checks showed. To my mind, this 
shouldve alerted UK Credit to the risk that it couldnt safely rely on what Mr U had told it 
about how he spent his money as he clearly had unexplained levels of problematic debt. 
I've taken into account that some defaulted accounts went back a couple of years. So 
arguably, I can see why UK Credit might not have been put off lending on the strength of 
those accounts alone. But this was part of a bigger picture that showed all the hallmarks of a 
person still in serious financial difficulty. 
I think UK Credit should have been particularly concerned to see that three accounts had 
defaulted within the previous 12 months or so. In March 2012 a loan account was defaulted 
with a balance of £6,466 owing. Also that month a default was recorded on Mr Us bank 
current account with a balance owing of £4,726. A couple of months after this, so just ten 
months or so before he applied for this loan, another bank current account was defaulted 
with a balance of £843 outstanding. 
It was apparent that Mr U had made some very modest payments towards some of these 
accounts reducing the overall defaulted balance by a few hundred pounds over the course of 
the previous year. But this wasnt significant in the overall context of Mr Us debt  and 
I think its reasonable to think that if Mr U had really had any spare cash he wouldve made 
much more meaningful inroads into clearing more of this debt. 
UK Credit was also aware that Mr U had used up all the available credit on his credit card 
and not only was he already paying a high cost £5,500 loan taken out the previous year he 
had recently taken out a £200 payday loan as well.
All of this suggests to me that Mr U was over-reliant on using credit and his spending on 
debt had got beyond his control. This bears out my concern that the disposable income 
figure UK Credit worked on wasnt, in reality, dependable. And thinking about all the 
information UK Credit had gathered, I dont think it was able to be satisfied on the 
information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr U. All the signs were that he couldnt afford the debt he was already 
responsible for paying  so it is unclear to me why UK Credit thought Mr U would be able to 
sustainably afford its loan. 
The fact that this loan was repaid early doesnt affect my view as this only happened with 
help from someone else. So, I am planning on upholding Mr Us complaint that he should not 
have been given the loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that UK Credit acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr U in some other way.So Im not planning to award any 
additional redress over and above what I've set out below. 
But I dont think UK Credit should have agreed to provide the loan to Mr U. And as he has 
been further indebted with expensive lending that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what UK Credit did wrong. 
So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr U has nothing further to add. UK Credit hasnt said anything further and the deadline for 
responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Given that Ive not 
received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I 
confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr U to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr U shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
As the loan has been repaid already, UK Credit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr U received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr U made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr U having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Us credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr U. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman