DRN-3903068
The complaint
Mr S and Ms H complain that London and Country Mortgages Ltd caused their mortgage 
application to be delayed.
What happened
Mr S and Ms Hs offer to purchase a property was accepted on 28 March 2022. They 
contacted London and Country Mortgages Ltd to arrange a mortgage for them. The initial 
mortgage was recommended on 4 April 2022, but this product was withdrawn from the 
market before Mr S and Ms H applied for it. Mr S (who is a contractor) then needed some 
time to arrange a new contract and to evidence his income. A new mortgage was 
recommended on 16 May 2022.
This mortgage was accepted in principle on 19 May 2022 and after gathering the initial 
supporting documentation the application was submitted on 27 May 2022. Mr S and Ms H 
asked London and Country Mortgages Ltd to update them and on 20 June 2022 Mr S and 
Ms H were asked for more information.
London and Country Mortgages Ltd and Mr S were then in regular contact regarding the 
further information and documentation the lender had requested to progress the application. 
During this time Mr S and Ms H were made aware that their solicitor wasnt on the lenders 
panel and by 26 July 2022 this was the only outstanding issue. On 1 August 2022 Mr S and 
Ms H were informed that the vendor was withdrawing from the sale  they were told this was 
due to the longevity of the process.
Mr S and Ms H say that the sale fell through due to London and Country Mortgages Ltds 
delays. They think it ought to have anticipated and understood more fully what information 
and supporting evidence the lender would need. Mr S and Ms H also think London and 
Country Mortgages Ltd ought to have flagged the issue with their solicitor not being on the 
lenders panel sooner.
London and Country Mortgages Ltd offered Mr S and Ms H £100 compensation for not 
following up with the lender sooner after the application was made. But London and Country 
Mortgages Ltd also said that the information was requested by the lender to fulfil its own 
underwriting criteria and the timing of this was out of its control.
Mr S and Ms H dont think this is enough; they say theyve lost out financially because they 
had to pay their solicitor and a valuation fee before the purchase fell through.
When Mr S and Ms H referred their complaint to our service, the investigator didnt think 
London and Country Mortgages Ltd needed to do more. They said they couldnt be sure it 
had caused the delay to the application being progressed and that the fee was applicable 
even if the application wasnt successful.
Mr S and Ms H didnt agree; they said certain information wasnt factually correct, 
London and Country Mortgages Ltd had done nothing for five weeks and they should have 
been told sooner that their solicitor wasnt on the lenders panel.
So, the complaint was been passed to me to consider. I issued my provisional decision on 
4 January 2023 explaining why I thought London and Country Mortgage Ltds offer was fair 
in the circumstances. In summary I explained I wasnt persuaded that London and Country 
Mortgages Ltd were responsible for most of the time that the application took to progress or 
for the sale falling through.
London and Country Mortgages Ltd confirmed it didnt have anything further to add. Mr S 
and Ms H didnt agree with my provisional decision, they said London and Country 
Mortgages Ltd didnt take sufficient care to inform them that their solicitor needed to be on 
the lenders panel and that they were told the emails were just a summary of what was 
discussed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including Mr S and Ms Hs further comments, I still think London and 
Country Mortgages Ltds offer of £100 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Im not persuaded that London and Country Mortgages Ltd are responsible for the majority 
of the time that this application took to progress.
Overall, there were almost four months between the sale being agreed and the vendor 
withdrawing the property  eight weeks of which were before this mortgage was 
recommended.
There was approximately a three-week period between the application being 
submitted and the first request for further information. I agree London and Country 
Mortgages Ltd ought to have followed up with the lender sooner, but this likely only 
delayed matters by up to a couple of weeks. I say this because it would have been 
reasonable to allow the lender some time to review the application, and we dont 
know when the lender was in a position to confirm what further information or 
documentation it needed to support the application. London and Country Mortgages 
Ltd has offered Mr S and Ms H £100 compensation to apologise for this and I think 
thats a fair amount in the circumstances.
The majority of the time taken to progress the application was outside of London and 
Country Mortgages Ltds control, for example when the lender requested further 
information, and the issues linked to Mr S and Ms Hs solicitor not being on the 
lenders panel.
I understand Mr S and Ms H think London and Country Mortgages Ltd should have 
anticipated what information the lender would need, but it gathered what it needed for 
the initial submission. Its for the lender to determine what more they need depending 
on the circumstances.
Mr S and Ms H say they shouldve been told sooner that there was an issue with their 
solicitor not being on the lenders panel. I can see London and Country Mortgages 
Ltd did inform Mr S and Ms H that theyd need to check with their solicitor whether or 
not they were on the lenders panel  this is explained in the Additional Information: 
Insurances and Conveyancing document provided to them on 4 April 2022 and 
16 May 2022.
I understand Mr S and Ms H say they didnt read this document and that they think 
London and Country Mortgages Ltd should have specifically spoken to them about 
this, but I think its done enough in the circumstances. The wording makes the 
situation clear and it would have been for Mr S and Ms Hs solicitor to confirm 
whether they could act for the lender in the circumstances. London and Country Mortgages Ltd didnt have a list of which solicitors were on this lenders panel but 
were able to obtain it from the lender at Mr S and Ms Hs request. I think London and 
Country Mortgages Ltd acted reasonably in trying to assist Mr S and Ms H with this 
issue and ultimately it wasnt something it could control or change itself.
Mr S and Ms H say they were asked for the wrong proof of identification. From the 
evidence available it appears Mr S and Ms H didnt want to use their passports as 
they needed to use them and so London and Country Mortgages Ltd worked with 
them to see what other forms of identification the lender would accept. I dont think it 
acted unreasonably here or that this delayed the application being progressed given 
there was still the outstanding issue of Mr S and Ms Hs solicitor not being on the 
lenders panel.
Mr S and Ms H would like London and Country Mortgages Ltd to reimburse them the 
cost of the valuation fee they paid. As this was correctly paid to the lender in line with 
the terms of their application, I dont think it would be fair to require it reimburse this.
This property purchase wasnt guaranteed, there was always a risk that one party might pull 
out or something else would prevent it from going ahead. As Im not persuaded London and 
Country Mortgages Ltd is responsible for the sale falling through I dont think it would be 
appropriate to make an award for the solicitors fees or any other costs Mr S and Ms H 
incurred in relation to this.
Putting things right
Mr S and Ms H say they havent received the £100 offered to them by London Country 
Mortgages Ltd. London and Country Mortgages should now pay this to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltds offer to pay Mr S and Ms H a 
total of £100 compensation is fair, and it should now pay this to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman