DRN-3973856
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to not refund her after she fell victim 
to a scam.
Ms K is represented by a claims management company.
What happened
Ms K says that, in January 2022, her friend presented an opportunity to make some money. 
The premise was that Ms K would have to complete tasks on social media, via an app, and 
that shed be paid for the tasks she completed. To gain access to these tasks, users would 
have to pay an unlocking fee. When tasks were completed, users could expect a payment 
of between £0.40 and £0.80 per task.
Ms K downloaded the app and made her first payment of £1,015 to a new payee 
on 12 January 2022. Ms K has said that before doing so she checked reviews on Google, 
YouTube, and Facebook. Ms K didnt know at the time, but she was falling victim to a scam.
Ms K was given access to tasks on the app and was invited to join a community WhatsApp 
group.
Believing the opportunity to earn an income to be genuine, Ms K went on to make four more 
payments, to four more new payees, over the course of a month. In total she sent a further 
£3,008 through her online banking.
On 14 February 2022 the app stopped working and it was revealed that Ms K had been the 
victim of a scam. She contacted Barclays seeking a refund.
Barclays investigated but said it couldnt help. It said the claim wasnt within scope of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and so a refund wouldnt be offered.
Barclays did contact the banks the money had been sent to, to see if anything could be 
recovered. But Ms Ks money had been removed from those accounts and none was 
returned.
Ms K was unhappy with Barclays response and so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and said Barclays neednt refund 
Ms K.
In referring the complaint to our service, Ms Ks representatives have stated the following:
The friend that had introduced Ms K to the app had shown shed had £100 paid into 
her bank account for the tasks shed completed;
Ms K saw the company behind the app was registered on Companies House and 
had the corresponding documentation.
Our investigator did consider Ms Ks claim under the CRM Code, contrary to what Barclays 
had said, but found one of the exceptions to reimbursement (given under the Code) applied. 
She said that Ms K lacked a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate 
payment for legitimate purposes.
Our investigator couldnt see that Ms K had carried out sufficient checks on the company 
behind the app. She could find little evidence of positive reviews for the company or the app. 
And she pointed out that the company hadnt appeared on Companies House until after 
Ms K had made most of the payments connected to the scam.
Our investigator also questioned the earnings Ms K was promised, describing them as 
unrealistic.
Ms K and her representatives disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Ms K has fallen victim to a cruel scam. Ive no doubt she engaged with 
this apparent opportunity to earn money in good faith. But Im afraid I wont be upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards CRM Code. Broadly speaking, the 
Code is in place to see victims of scams refunded by their bank. But there are exceptions to 
reimbursement that might apply. Im satisfied that, in Ms Ks case, one of those exceptions 
comes into play
Barclays said that it didnt think the Code applied in Ms Ks case. That appears to have been 
on the basis that Ms K had been caught up in a Ponzi or pyramid scheme. But the LSB has 
confirmed that such schemes are covered under the CRM Code. So Barclays response to 
the complaint was wrong. But that doesnt mean Ms K is necessarily due a refund. The 
considerations under the Code  including the exceptions to reimbursement  still need to be 
applied.
There are two exceptions set out in the Code that are relevant to this complaint. Barclays 
can fairly decline a refund if it can be shown that:
Ms K ignored effective warnings given by Barclays at the time payments were being 
made; or
Ms K lacked a reasonable basis for believing she was transacting with legitimate 
parties for legitimate purposes.
Im satisfied the first exception to reimbursement  ignoring effective warnings  doesnt 
apply here. Ms K was likely presented with a warning each time she made a payment to 
each of the new payees through her online banking. The warnings would have been varied, 
and at times unrelated to what Ms K was doing, given the payment purpose she selected 
each time: investment or crypto currency, partner or love interest, buying a physical item, 
and bill or invoice or tax. 
I dont know why Ms K picked these different payment purposes and Ive not seen evidence 
of exactly what warnings Ms K saw. But I dont need to in this case. Thats because I dont 
find that Barclays had to provide what the Code defines as an effective warning. 
The payments made by Ms K werent exceptional and they didnt clearly stand out as a fraud 
risk. Whilst I dont doubt the loss suffered by Ms K is significant, the individual payments 
werent for particularly large amounts and didnt represent a worrying change in the normal 
operation of her account. I say as much having thought about the value and frequency of 
payments shes made before.  
With that in mind Im satisfied Barclays did enough in presenting the warnings it did and 
theres no further assessment to be made as to whether Ms K ignored them. The second exception to reimbursement involves a consideration of whether Ms K held a 
reasonable basis of belief that what she was doing was legitimate. I dont believe she did, 
and so the exception to reimbursement can be fairly relied upon.
Ms K has said a friend recommended the app and opportunity to her. And whilst I can 
understand why Ms K might have put faith in her friends recommendation, I dont find its 
enough to have established a reasonable basis of belief. Ms K needed to carry out her own 
checks to satisfy herself all was as it seemed.
Ms Ks representative has said that she was shown her friends online banking, which 
included a £100 deposit into her account from the work shed carried out on the app. That 
piece of information doesnt ever seem have been presented to the bank by Ms K. The first 
mention of it seems to come from the representative, and only after our investigator had 
issued her opinion and raised some further questions, specifically addressing this point. 
When then asked to present any evidence of the payment Ms K saw, the representative has 
said that the friend can no longer be contacted. Thats despite the friend being described as 
very close, with Christmases spent together. It seems strange that the friend is now 
uncontactable. With those points in mind, Im not persuaded Ms K did see an actual payment 
into her friends bank account.
Ms Ks representative has also said she found the company on Companies House and that 
she was presented with the documentation connected to its registration, all before signing up 
and sending payments. But Im not persuaded thats what happened. 
I say as much because the Companies House registration, and all the documentation the 
representative has sent to us, is dated either 9 or 10 February 2022. By that date Ms K had 
already made four out of the five payments to the scam. And so she couldnt have seen the 
registration or documents at the start; they didnt exist. What this means is that Ms K couldnt 
have carried out any checks to satisfy herself that the company was legitimately registered in 
the UK or, if she did try, she would have found nothing.
Ms K has said that she saw positive reviews on Facebook and Google. Such reviews cant 
be found now and theres little evidence to show they existed. Ms Ks representative has 
provided a Google screenshot it says was taken at the time. But there still appears to be little 
in the way of independently verified reviews on that screenshot.
Ive seen several screenshots of the WhatsApp group Ms K joined after registering on the 
app. Whilst there are messages from people stating that theyve earned bonuses and 
payment for tasks, all confirmations appear to be from within the app; theres nothing to 
show payments to bank accounts. And there also would have been no way for Ms K to verify 
anything that was posted in the group. Its also true that much of what Ms K might have seen 
would have been posted after shed already sent money to the scammers, and so couldnt 
have been used to inform her basis of belief at the time those payments were being made.
It seems more likely than not to me that Ms K largely, perhaps even solely, relied on the 
recommendation of her friend. Which I cant say is enough to have established her 
reasonable basis of belief.
I can see that Ms K paid five different payees over the course of the scam. None of the 
payee names matched the name of the company Ms K believed she was getting involved 
with. But she never seems to have questioned why the payee names were different or why 
they kept changing with each payment. Those are features that I find its fair to say ought to 
have caused some concern.
I do think the premise of what Ms K was getting involved in is also questionable. I know there 
was a convincing app. And I know there is evidence to suggest that social media tasks can 
be legitimately undertaken to generate something of an income. But here, Ms K was told 
shed have to pay large upfront fees to be able to access such tasks. It seems unusual that 
any legitimate employer would require payment from its staff, and this represents a concerning feature of the scam. Its also the case that Ms K appears to have not been sent 
any agreement and she signed no terms of employment (or similar) that might have 
suggested the company she was engaging with was legitimate.
I know many people fell victim to this scam, and Ive acknowledged there was a convincing 
app. But those factors dont change my findings on Ms Ks basis of belief. It seems to me 
there was little Ms K did to satisfy herself the opportunity was all it was advertised to be. And 
I find its reasonable for the exception to reimbursement to apply.
The evidence Barclays has provided regarding the recovery of funds is limited. But it does 
indicate that it contacted the receiving banks quickly and that no funds remained. Thats 
consistent with whats been seen on other complaints involving the same scam. The 
receiving accounts were quickly emptied once credited, and so Im satisfied there was no 
opportunity to recover Ms Ks money.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman