DRN-1917070
The complaint
Mr M complains about the delays and poor handling of his claim for storm damage to his 
home under his home insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
What happened
Mr Ms home was damaged by a storm in 2014 and he claimed to AXA. Mr M said AXA and 
its agents caused many problems with his claim concerning poor workmanship, payments 
not made, delays, and poor customer service. Mr M said there are problems with the repairs 
that are still to be resolved and he should be compensated for the trouble and upset caused.
AXA said it had resolved many of the issues raised by Mr M when it sent a previous final 
response to his complaint in June 2019 and paid him compensation for problems since the 
start of his claim totalling £700. Mr M said he was still unhappy and he continued to raise 
concerns with AXA. 
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint in September 2019 and AXA sent a further final 
response in April 2020. In this letter AXA said no progress had been made because it was 
waiting for Mr M to provide a snag list. AXA said it had paid Mr M compensation on his other 
complaints in 2017 and 2018 for delays in investigating, snagging issues, missed call backs 
and hold times, poor workmanship and poor service.
Our investigator said we couldnt look at the previous complaints Mr M made in 2017 and 
2018 or the compensation AXA paid for these because they were brought to us outside of 
the six-month time limit. She said shed focused on delays in finalising the claim and the 
compensation AXA paid, but she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said 
AXAs compensation showed it had addressed the delays for which it was responsible.
The investigator said AXA was unable to arrange appointments or gain access and could 
have closed the claim. She said a meeting with Mr M in October 2017 took place a year after 
AXAs agents first tried to arrange it. She said after this the agents couldnt contact Mr M and 
he had said he would be in touch again when he was free. She said AXA responded 
promptly to Mr Ms emails in May 2018, but he didnt provide the information he said he 
would and was then only available for a Saturday appointment, which AXA tried to arrange.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said hed been trying to contact AXA since June 2019 and has evidence of this. He said he 
wasnt sure which of his previous complaints had been considered and those concerning 
poor workmanship and the non-payment of invoices still hadnt been dealt with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M raised complaints with AXA in 2017 and 2018. AXA reviewed its handling of his claim 
then and when it sent a final response letter in June 2019. AXA said in its previous 
responses to Mr M that it had considered his complaints about the poor workmanship 
involved in the repairs to his home and the non-payment of invoices and paid compensation 
for poor service. 
I have looked at all of the issues that Mr M raised in his complaint and in particular the 
delays Mr M said AXA and its agents caused. Overall I think the £700 compensation AXA 
said it has paid Mr M for its failings is fair. I will explain my reasons for reaching this decision.
AXA said it had attempted to contact Mr M on numerous occasions in order to finalise the 
claim, but couldnt reach him. AXA didnt think it was responsible for the continued hold up. 
Ive looked carefully at the records of communications between AXA, its agents and Mr M 
and have seen many attempts by AXA and its agents to contact Mr M. For various reasons 
of Mr Ms these attempts were unsuccessful, and visits werent arranged and progress on 
the claim stalled. 
Ive seen that AXAs agents became increasingly concerned at their inability to contact to Mr 
M and lack of progress for about a year before, and a year after the meeting in October 
2017. It appears that only at the end of 2018 when AXA stopped trying to contact Mr M did 
he get in touch. From the records Ive seen I think AXA and its agents were reasonably 
responsive to Mr Ms enquiries and maintained a reasonable level of contact.
During the long periods of this claim where there was little contact or progress, Mr M 
continued to raise issues, particularly about invoices and poor workmanship. AXA and its 
agents tried and appear to have resolved most of these issues, but in the main I think that 
progress and resolution of the claim were frustrated by Mr Ms inaccessibility.
Having said this, I have seen instances in the records when AXA and its agents could have 
progressed Mr Ms claim more promptly and some of his calls werent returned. But overall, 
Ive seen more examples of Mr M frustrating progress by being out of contact. AXA has paid 
Mr M £700 compensation for its poor service and delays, and in the circumstances I think 
this is fair and reasonable for the things for which AXA was responsible.
I realise that this will be a disappointment to Mr M but I hope he can see my reasons. I also 
hope that Mr M and AXA can now reach an agreement about dealing with any outstanding 
issues to do with the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman