DRN-3535505
The complaint
Mr F complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) has charged interest as he 
hadnt paid off his balance before a buy now pay later (BNPL) promotional period ended.
What happened
Mr F entered into an agreement with Creation in July 2020 to acquire goods from a third-
party supplier. The purchase price was £359 but Mr F took a promotional offer of 12-month 
BNPL. This meant if he paid the balance before the end of the 12-month period he wouldnt 
pay any interest. But after the 12-month period ended if he hadnt settled the balance, hed 
be charged interest until the balance was settled.
Mr F said hed the money to settle the balance, but Creation failed to tell him when the 
payment needed to be made. As Mr F didnt pay the balance until August 2021 Creation 
have asked him to pay the accrued interest. Mr F complained to Creation.
Creation said theyd sent statements to Mr F in May and June 2021 and that as he hadnt 
settled the balance within the agreed 12-month period the interest was payable.
Mr F wasnt happy with Creations response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Creation had acted fairly and reasonably in charging interest as Mr F 
hadnt settled the BNPL account until after the 12-month period had ended. Mr  F didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see why Mr F is upset as he said hed set aside the money to settle the BNPL so that 
he didnt incur any interest charges, and hed have done this if Creation had said when the 
payment needed to be made. 
While I empathise with the position Mr F finds himself in, for me to say Creation must do 
something different I must first be satisfied that theyve done something wrong. I cant see
that they have here which is why I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Mr F acquired the goods in July 2020, and he said he was aware that hed 12 months from 
then to settle the balance. But expected Creation to let him know when the payment was 
due. In acquiring the goods, Ive considered that Mr F would have needed to agree to the 
BNPL terms and conditions when signing the agreement hed with Creation.
I can see that the BNPL period ended in July 2021, but Mr F didnt make the payment of 
£359 until August 2021. And as this was after the end of the BNPL period interest would be 
charged until the account was settled. And I can see Creation have asked Mr F to pay the 
accrued interest. In reaching my decision  I need to determine whether Creation did enough 
to notify Mr F of the terms of the BNPL period. And Im satisfied they did.
Mr F said hed been sent a payment reminder in January 2021 by Creation, but this had 
been too early for him to make the payment. But I think this would have made Mr F aware 
that a payment needed to be made, and when this would be. Creation said they also sent 
Mr F statements to his online account in May and June 2021 and that these did warn of the 
BNPL period coming to an end. 
Mr F said he couldnt remember the online account details, he said hed tried to find the 
details by checking Creations website, but without success, so he hadnt seen any 
statements, which Ive no reason to doubt. And I also accept Mr F had every intention of 
settling the balance before the end of the BNPL period. 
But I cant say Creation have done anything wrong as Mr F has confirmed that they told him 
about his BNPL plan in January 2021, and sent statements informing him about his BNPL to 
his online account. And I cant hold Creation responsible for Mr F not accessing them. 
Overall, I think its likely that Creation made Mr F aware that hed to pay off the full cash
price of his goods within the 12-month period, if he wanted to avoid any interest being
added to his account. As he didnt make his payment within the BNPL period I dont think 
Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably by asking Mr F to pay the accrued interest.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman