DRN-3712081
The complaint
Mrs W complained about Fairmead Insurance Limited. She wasnt happy about the way it 
handled a claim under her home insurance policy and the reserve that was placed on the 
claim. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Fairmead are responsible 
for it, Ive just referred to Fairmead in this decision.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mrs W made a claim under her home insurance policy after a fire at her rented property. But 
she wasnt happy about the way it handled the claim, the reserve it placed on the claim, and 
that it delayed in paying her loss of rent payments. So she complained to Fairmead about 
this.
Fairmead accepted that it delayed matters and offered £50, which it increased to £100, by 
way of compensation. But Mrs W remained unhappy, so she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs W. He accepted Fairmead had delayed matters 
and provided a poor service at times, but he felt its offer of £100 compensation in 
acknowledgement of this was fair. 
As Mrs W didnt agree, believing that she should be paid £500 in compensation, the matter 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and increase the level of 
compensation but by a further £100 (£200 in total). Ill explain why.  
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand why Mrs W is unhappy with the delays in settling the claim and poor 
service provided which Fairmead has accepted by apologising and offering her £100 by way 
of compensation. But I dont think this goes far enough. Unfortunately, there is always a fair 
degree of stress and inconvenience in advancing an insurance claim, especially in a claim 
like Mrs Ws following a house fire. And a lot of the stress and inconvenience here has been 
caused by the general difficulties in advancing a claim like this so I dont feel the 
compensation level should be increased to £500 as Mrs W has suggested.
I understand that Fairmead has agreed to pay Mrs Ws loss of rent now, so this hasnt 
formed part of this investigation. If there is any further delay with this Mrs W would need to 
raise a further complaint with Fairmead about this but I have considered the delay up until 
the date of Fairmeads final response letter (13 April 2022). And I dont think Fairmeads offer 
of £100 compensation fully took into account the delays caused in advancing the payment of 
loss of rent. And it didnt take account of the fact that Fairmead didnt send various 
documents to Mrs W that it should have done. As our investigator explained when he sent 
the documents these should have been sent for transparency and would have helped Mrs W 
to understand why the claim level had been set as high as it had and the extent of the claim 
generally.
I know Mrs W feels that the reserve for the claim was set too high and that this impacted on 
her premium levels at renewal. But, as our investigator explained, Fairmead set the reserve 
in line with industry standards and an initial reserve can often be higher than the final 
amount and often cover the possibility of costs increasing as a claim goes along  in effect 
they often cover the worst case scenario. I can see that Fairmead have revisited this as it 
has gone along and reduced the figure, so I think it has acted reasonably here. 
Given all of this I think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is to increase the level of compensation by £100 (£200 total). I 
say this as Fairmead have delayed the claim on a number of occasions, including advancing 
the loss of rent, and it didnt send out documentation that I would have expected it to. And all 
this caused Mrs W stress, inconvenience and worry at an already difficult time. 
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Fairmead just outlined that it agreed with 
my position while Mrs W said she accepted the increase in compensation although she still 
felt that the level should be increased. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides accept the provisional decision I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this 
complaint again. And having considered everything again I maintain that the fair and 
reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is to uphold this 
complaint lifting the compensation from £100 to £200 (total). 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint and so I require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay £200 (total) in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman