DRN-4041289
The complaint
Mr B complains that BISL Limited didnt provide him with confirmation of his full no claims 
history. 
What happened
Mr B had a car insurance policy with BISL that renewed each year from 2016. In January 
2023 it decided not to offer renewal for another year. Mr B requested confirmation of his no 
claims history. He provided evidence that he said showed he had 27 years. However BISL 
said the evidence provided only showed 25 years no claims, so it issued a document 
confirming this amount. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and made a complaint. BISL didnt uphold it so he brought it to 
this service. 
After the complaint came to this service Mr B provided our investigator with further proof of is 
no claims history, that he said he had already sent to BISL. Our investigator asked BISL to 
confirm if it has been received and if it changed the outcome of the complaint. BISL said that 
the new information had been received by it shortly after it had issued its final response on 
Mr Bs complaint, and had been overlooked. However it said that the evidence now met its 
criteria for proof of no claims history and said it would issue a letter confirming Mr B had 27 
years rather than 25.
Our investigator thought this was a fair resolution. She said while she could see Mr B had 
suffered some mild inconvenience by BISLs initial oversight she didnt think the impact was 
enough to warrant any compensation. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said in order to get the correct no claims history confirmed hed had to 
spend hours writing emails, taking photos and coming to this service. And this had caused 
him significant inconvenience. He thought BISL should pay £200 compensation to make up 
for this. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL has now agreed to provide Mr B with confirmation of his 27 years no claims history. So 
all thats left to consider is whether any compensation is due.
When considering compensation, I first need to consider if the business got anything wrong. 
And where I find it has, consider the impact this had on its customer. 
Here, Mr B has said BISL should have provided him with confirmation of his full 27 years no 
claims history when he originally requested it. Ive considered this and I agree BISL could 
have provided this earlier. Initially Mr B didnt provide enough evidence to allow BISL to 
confirm the full 27 years. The information he provided had key information missing and BISL 
pointed this out at the time and issued the 25 years no claims history that it was able to 
confirm. I think this was reasonable at the time.
However Mr B said he provided the full information to prove he had 27 years on 26 January. 
And BISL took no action until this service got involved. BISL has accepted that it received 
the full information but overlooked it. However once it was brought to BISLs attention it took 
action to rectify it and offered a letter to confirm his full no claims history.
Based on this I agree BISL did get something wrong, it should have acted on the information 
Mr B provided sooner. However I dont agree this has caused Mr B a significant impact. He 
has only been without the document for around a month more than he should have been and 
Ive not seen that this has disadvantaged him. Most insurers only consider no claims 
discounts up to around nine years. And Mr B has provided nothing to show he has had to 
pay more because of the delay. 
And, while I can see Mr B has contacted BISL a number of times, initially he hadnt provided 
sufficient information in order for BISL to provide confirmation of the full 27 years. So I cant 
consider the inconvenience up until this point. And once he had provided the full information 
at the end of January, I dont think it has caused him significant inconvenience after. BISL 
has apologised for overlooking the information and I think this is sufficient in the 
circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman