DRN-3962802
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has treated them 
unfairly in how it has managed their account and the service it has provided.
What happened
C held a business account with Barclays. They complained about a series of errors and 
issues caused by the bank. 
C told us:
The bank had taken away their dedicated business manager which meant theyd 
spent significant periods of time calling the bank. 
The bank wrongly added a previous partner (who was no longer involved with the 
business) to their mortgage. They had to seek legal advice about this and had been 
caused distress and inconvenience.  
Their name of their business account had been updated without discussion.
Theyd received threatening letters from the bank saying it would close their account 
if they didnt provide Know Your Customer (KYC) information, which theyd already 
returned.
Barclays told us:
It had taken the decision to change its business model when supporting business 
customers. This was a commercial decision it had taken, and it wouldnt be providing 
C with a dedicated business manager. 
There was no evidence the previous partner had been added to Cs mortgage, this 
was simply due to Cs existing trading name which had included that partner within it.  
C had completed a mandate change to their account in February 2021 to remove the 
previous partner, however, there was no evidence C had asked for them to be 
removed from the trading name at the same time. This had been amended as part of 
the complaint response in November 2021.
It contacted C in October 2021 as part of its KYC review to ask them to confirm the 
information it held was accurate and up to date. The tone of the letters is deliberately 
strict to convey the importance of providing this information.
It had offered C £100 compensation in November 2021 which they had accepted, 
and it felt this was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part and that Barclays increase its 
compensation award to a total of £500. He thought it was reasonable for Barclays to change 
its business model and request information from C when it added a new partner. However, 
he thought the bank could have been clearer about the information it needed. The 
investigator said it was reasonable that C had been concerned about a previous partner 
being added to their mortgage statement but said the partners hadnt provided any evidence 
of what theyd spent on legal fees regarding this issue, so didnt recommend this expense 
was covered.
 
C didnt agree. They said £500 compensation wasnt enough for the time spent trying to 
resolve the issues caused by the bank and the threat of their account being closed  despite 
the required information being provided in January 2022. So they asked for an ombudsman 
to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
C is unhappy that Barclays is no longer providing them with a dedicated business manager, 
and this has caused them inconvenience from call waiting times. However, Im unable to tell 
the bank to reinstate Cs business manager as the decision to remove this dedicated service 
is a commercial decision that Barclays is able to make. Its for the bank to say how it wishes 
to provide its services, provided it has treated its customers fairly when making these 
changes. In this case, Cs account terms and conditions say that if Barclays is making 
changes to a service it already offers, then it will give account holders 30 days notice. Ive 
seen that the bank wrote to C in May 2021 with changes taking effect from July 2021. And 
although I recognise Cs frustrations about the time taken to contact the new relationship 
team provided by the bank, I cant reasonably say Barclays has done anything wrong in 
making this change.  
C told us that Barclays had treated them unfairly by making changes to their business 
account and sending them threatening letters about restricting access and closing their 
account. Barclays has legal and regulatory obligations to ensure that it has sufficient 
knowledge of its customers. As the bank wasnt satisfied it could meet its regulatory 
obligations, it gave C firmly worded warnings that it would restrict and then close their 
account which was in line with its terms and conditions. I think its reasonable that the bank 
wanted to clarify the information it held was correct and I dont think the letters are 
threatening, but factual in terms of the consequences of this information not being provided. 
However, C has told us that they repeatedly tried to call the bank to provide the information 
as requested but were unable to do so. Ive seen emails between C and their previous 
relationship manager asking how they could provide this, which C then actioned in April 
2021. However, from Barclays case notes, I can see that the bank decided further 
information was required in November 2021, which in itself would be reasonable. However, 
C provided this information shortly after, and the bank subsequently requested more 
information from January 2022 onwards - which I think should have been asked at the 
outset. This meant C was caused distress and inconvenience from warning letters that were 
then sent by the bank. So I dont think Barclays treated C fairly here.  
C said that they were caused distress and inconvenience because their mortgage 
documents were sent to a previous partner due to an error by the bank. Barclays has told us 
that the previous partner isnt linked to C, but internally there was a system issue which is 
causing the documents to be generated with the previous partner included in the 
addressees when sent to the current business address. Its not for me to fine or punish a 
business for making a mistake, and whilst I understand this would have been concerning for 
C, I havent seen any evidence that the previous partner was contacted as the statements 
are sent to the partnership address, or that there has been a wider impact here. Ive looked at the mortgage documents and the borrower names are that of the current 
partners only. As those partners are the ones who signed the mortgage offer, and it 
specifically refers to them I think its likely the actual mortgage was in the correct name of the 
partners as it should have been, and the incorrect addressee on the statements was just an 
administration issue which the bank said it was in the process of resolving. Ive seen 
evidence from Barclays that shows this issue has now been resolved, so I think its likely Cs 
mortgage statement (when this is due) and account statements will be in the correct partner 
names as expected.   
Overall, I think C has been caused inconvenience by Barclays actions in not providing clear 
requests for the information it needed, and from the system issue which is causing their 
statements to be produced in the wrong name. I can see that C has told us that it doesnt 
think that the investigators recommendation for a further £400 compensation is enough for 
the time theyve spent to resolve the complaint. However, this service doesnt look at an 
hourly rate when making awards, we look at the complaint holistically and consider the wider 
impact of any inconvenience caused. And based on that, I think that a total of £500 
compensation is enough to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay C a 
further £400 compensation for the inconvenience caused in addition to the £100 already 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman