DRN-3940316
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, didnt assess 
his loan application fairly.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S applied to Everyday Loans for a personal loan. However, following a 
telephone discussion between Mr S and Everyday Loans, Mr Ss loan application was 
declined. Mr S wasnt happy about this and felt that Everyday Loans had misunderstood his 
financial position such that they hadnt considered his loan application fairly. So, he raised a 
complaint.
Everyday Loans responded to Mr Ss complaint and reiterated that they didnt feel Mr S met 
their lending criteria to enable his loan application to be approved. Mr S wasnt satisfied with 
Everyday Loans response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Everyday Loans had made 
an error in how theyd considered Mr Ss income. Because of this, they recommended that 
Everyday Loans should reconsider Mr ss loan application using the correct information and 
should also make a payment of £150 to Mr S as compensation for the upset and trouble hed 
incurred. Everyday Loans didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our 
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Everyday Loans have misunderstood Mr Ss income, and that 
Everyday Loans mistake in this regard has caused them to consider Mr S as being ineligible 
to be considered for the loan which it appears he was eligible to be considered for.
Specifically, Everyday Loans have misunderstood Mr Ss benefit income. This is because 
Everyday Loans have considered that Mr Ss housing benefit was paid out of the universal 
credit income that he received  thus effectively reducing the amount of universal credit Mr S 
was left with  when in fact Mr Ss housing benefit is paid separately to his universal credit 
and doesnt detract from the amount of universal credit he receives.
As a result of Everyday Loans mistake here, its evident that theyve assessed Mr S as 
having total personal income of approximately £650 per month, which Everyday Loans 
explain means that Mr Ss annual income is approximately £7,800, and therefore is below 
the per annum amount eligibility criteria they apply to such applications.
However, when Mr Ss correct monthly income is taken into consideration  which Ive 
verified as being correct upon review of Mr Ss bank statements  its clear that Mr Ss 
annual income does exceed the amount that Everyday Loans have explained to this service 
constitutes their minimum annual income eligibility criteria amount. As such, this means that 
Everyday Loans stated reason for declining Mr Ss loan application is invalid.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Everyday Loans havent assessed Mr Ss loan application 
fairly. And so, Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour and instructing Everyday 
Loans to reassess Mr Ss application using the correct information.
This isnt to say that Everyday Loans must approve Mr Ss loan application  only that they 
must reconsider it as instructed so that Mr Ss application is considered fairly. Should it be 
the case that after Everyday Loans have reconsidered Mr Ss loan application using the 
correct information that his application is still declined, Everyday Loans should be clear with 
Mr S as to why that may have been the case.
It's notable that both Mr S and our investigator have tried to explain to Everyday Loans the 
nature of the mistake that theyve made when assessing Mr Ss income here, and its difficult 
not the feel that Everyday Loans have missed several opportunities to resolve this matter 
before this point by reconsidering Mr Ss loan using the correct information. 
As such, I do feel that Mr S has incurred an unreasonable and unnecessary amount of upset 
and inconvenience relating to this matter which I feel could and should have been avoided. 
And so, Ill also be instructing Everyday Loans to make a payment of £150 to Mr S as 
compensation for the trouble and frustration Im satisfied that hes unfairly incurred because 
of their mistake. 
Putting things right
Everyday loans must reassess Mr Ss loan application using the correct income information 
for Mr S.
Everyday Loans must also make a payment of £150 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman