DRN-3975603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained Santander UK plc wont refund money they lost from their 
account as a result of a scam.
What happened
In 2020 Mr C was looking for investment opportunities. He had extensive personal and 
professional experience in business acquisition. He ran his own company and had an 
acquaintance with experience in the energy sector. They initially reviewed investments within 
energy and IT sectors, but nothing proved suitable. Mr C then widened the sectors he was 
considering on his own, including the media sector. 
Mr C found an overseas company which needed equity. He researched the finance options 
available to him. This specifically concentrated on areas where Mr C believed hed find 
significantly more advanced investment platforms. When he found an intermediary to 
provide loans to finance his proposals, he carried out research and checks into those 
involved in the relevant companies. He also participated in video and telephone calls to 
ensure authenticity.
Mr C received copies of loan documents which he reviewed in detail. He found these to be 
valid and agreed to proceed with the loans.
To pay for the commercial deals, Mr C made a series of international payments. The first for 
$7,800 was for legal fees. Just over a week later, Mr C paid a further $20,000 for the 
insurance costs. These two payments were made to the same Middle Eastern bank. He also 
made two payments of $3,200 and $2,350 a bank in the US. One of the latter transactions 
was a payment to a cryptocurrency wallet.
Mr C had decided to make these payments from his joint Santander account rather than his 
business account. Hes told us the other bank raised questions about the authenticity of the 
documents hed shared with them and he was concerned they were unfamiliar with the 
nature of his business activity. 
Mr C was then asked for further payments, for VAT purposes. This raised his suspicions and 
by early December he was requesting his funds to be returned. The intermediary he was 
dealing with stopped responding to his WhatsApp messages and attempts to call.
In early February 2021, Mr C told Santander hed been a victim of a scam and asked them to 
refund him. Santander requested funds to be returned by the receiving banks but got no 
response. They believed as Mr C had willingly made the payments, they were not required to 
do anything further. Mr C felt they had a duty of care to him and should have intervened.
As Mr C remained unhappy about being out of pocket, he brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator noted Santander had not taken steps to warn Mr C of potential scams or 
undertake any additional checks on his payments. He felt that Santander were required to 
have systems in place to identify unusual transactions. However appreciating the amount of 
research Mr C had already done in what he believed were business transactions, he didnt 
think any further checks would have had any impact and Mr C would have continued with the 
transactions.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 18 January 2023. I also believed Santander should 
have intervened but because of the research Mr C had already undertaken, I didnt think it 
would have made any difference to what Mr C then did.
Mr C didnt respond to the provisional decision. Santander accepted the outcome.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. As I 
received no comments requiring further review, my final decision follows the same lines as 
my provisional decision did.
Theres no dispute that Mr C made and authorised the payments. Mr C knew who he was 
paying, and the reasons why. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed 
these were valid expenses enabling him to take out loan agreements for $100,000 and 
$200,000. I dont dispute Mr C was scammed and hasnt received what he thought he was 
paying for, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Santander has an obligation to follow Mr Cs instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr C is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Santander 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr C fell victim to a sophisticated scam that was of a specific, and in my experience, fairly 
unusual type. It didnt bear any of the hallmarks of an investment scam such as a cold call 
inviting him to invest, an advert on social media or unrealistic, guaranteed returns. Instead Mr C tells us he was looking for investment opportunities and then ways to finance those 
investments. He carried out detailed research into the intermediary he was dealing with 
including checking them out on a business network and conducting video calls. And he 
seems already to have had some expertise in this type of investment/business opportunity. 
He was also satisfied about the checks the intermediary was similarly carrying out into him.
Santander has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions. 
And I can see the third transaction for $20,000 triggered these. Santander have been unable 
to confirm whether any call was made to Mr C, but based on what Mr C has subsequently 
told us, I think this is unlikely. Even if it did take place, Ive seen no records that show what 
might have been discussed.
However they have told us what they would have likely asked Mr C at this time. This appears 
to follow the lines of the fraud alert that Santander suggests would have been displayed to 
Mr C before making the four payments online. Which was:
If you've received a cold call about an investment opportunity, or if you haven't checked the 
company you're investing with, this could be a scam. We recommend always checking the 
company details thoroughly on the Financial Conduct Authority website. If you're at all 
suspicious about who you're paying, you shouldn't continue with this payment.
But knowing what I do about the process Mr C went through in researching who he was 
dealing with, I dont believe this warning or any related conversations would have alerted 
Mr C to the possibility he was being scammed or changed his mind. Hed had video and 
telephone calls with the relevant individual. Hed carried out his own research. 
Hed also made the deliberate decision to transfer funds into his Santander account as 
another bank, who held his business account, as far as Mr C was concerned, were holding 
up the transaction and limiting his ability to proceed with the business he wanted to carry 
out. Whatever concerns that bank raised or restrictions it imposed, Mr C still believed he had 
completed sufficient checks and was entering into a genuine investment.
Overall I dont think the intervention Santander should most have likely undertaken  even 
though I accept they probably did not  would have had any impact on Mr C. Hed have 
continued to make the payments he did.
In later correspondence Mr C has raised the issue about bitcoin option trading. He believes 
that alerting him to the lack of FCA regulation would have made a difference to him. But at 
the time Mr C was making these payments, the evidence doesnt suggest this was what was 
happening. I accept he made a payment into a bitcoin wallet, but it seems Mr C believed he 
was paying for a service rather than doing any bitcoin trading himself.
Ive also considered whether Santander did enough after it was notified about the scam? 
Santanders records suggest they passed on information to the overseas receiving banks 
just after Mr C notified them about the fraud. However this was at least two months after 
Mr C had made the initial payments. Its not unusual for fraudsters to move money on very 
quickly. Nor is it unusual for receiving banks based overseas to not respond to these 
requests  theyre not always subject to the same UK or European regulations. And 
Santanders records show that they received nothing further from the receiving banks. So I 
think Santander made reasonable efforts to recall Mr Cs payments. 
Overall I dont believe any intervention Santander could have made would have altered what 
happened here. So I cant fairly tell it to refund Mr Cs money.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman