DRN-4046327
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L (Mr and Mrs L) are represented by the same claims management company. 
Mr and Mrs L complain that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to 
them irresponsibly in 2017. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took a joint loan for £7,000 on 28 April 2017 over 48 months and the 
repayments were £394.36 each month. The total to pay back was just over £18,929 and by 
July 2020 my understanding from the documents sent to me was that Mr and Mrs L had 
repaid around £10,351. 
Of the £7,000 loan, £3,507 was paid to Mr and Mrs L and the rest Everyday Lending used to 
pay off a credit card and another loan. Mr and Mrs L said they were gong to use some of the 
cash given to them to repay a credit facility they had opened which had been attached to 
their bank account. And the rest was to be used to help pay down other items. 
In or around July 2018 Mr and Mrs L entered a debt management plan. The debt was 
defaulted and assigned to a third party on 20 October 2021. 
Mr and Mrs L complained to Everyday Lending and received its final response letter (FRL) 
dated 22 July 2022.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the loan ought not to have 
been approved for Mr and Mrs L. The research Everyday Lending had done before 
approving the loan had included obtaining a credit search and looking at both customers 
bank account statement transactions for the period leading up to April 2017. Copies have 
been provided. But the information it obtained showed Everyday Lending, that in his view 
Mr and Mrs L were not able to keep up the repayment of just under £395 a month for four 
years. 
Everyday Lending disagreed but did not give much by way of explanation as to why it 
considered that. The Everyday Lending representative said: I would say that our loan has 
Mr and Mrs L in a good position with sufficient disposable income.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr and Mrs L would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr and Mrs L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr and Mrs Ls ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr and Mrs L undue difficulty 
or significant adverse consequences. That means they should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment they had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on their financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr and 
Mrs L. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Mr and Mrs L had two different jobs. Mrs L was paid cash weekly and had provided payslips 
to Everyday Lending before the loan was approved. She earned about £340 a week. Mr L 
was employed and he earned on average about £1,669 a month after tax and deductions 
and this average is from the two copy payslips he provided to Everyday Lending before the 
loan was approved. The combined household income was around £3,376 each month. They paid rent of £850 a month. And they would have had the usual monthly household bills and 
food costs which Everyday Lending had calculated as £1,000. 
I have reviewed the bank account statement transactions sent to us by Everyday Lending, 
taking care to use the relevant ones from early 2017 and not those which seem to post-date 
the loan approval date. Those later ones seem to relate to the debt management plan that 
Mr L was arranging at one point in 2018 and 2019. 
There were Everyday Lending account notes from March and April 2017 which gave us an 
insight into why Mr and Mrs L wanted such a large loan and to consolidate their debts. 
Having looked at it all, I do agree with our adjudicator that Mr and Mrs L had regular monthly 
repayments on two larger loans (£157 and £133) plus several telephone contracts of about 
£9 a month. I work that out to have been around £308 a month in total. 
Then Mr and Mrs L had six credit cards and three mail order accounts between them, which 
ranged from one credit card with an outstanding balance of £193, to one mail order account 
at £2,551 plus another two credit cards at £2,993 and £3,258. Most of the credit cards were 
at or close to their limits. The total of all that debt was around £15,664 and as a minimum 
repayment on those cards and mail order accounts at say 3% that translates into around 
£470 a month. So, the two sets of debt combined came to around £778. 
Add into that figure the planned new instalment cost to Everyday Lending of around £394 
and it comes to £1,172. The Everyday Lending calculations Ive been presented with come 
to around total credit repayments they had to make each month as being £1,236. So, a 
similar sum to the one I calculated. 
Everyday Lendings new loan to Mr and Mrs L, according to their figures, would have made 
them a saving of around £96 a month (disposable income of around £227 rather than £130). 
But with the usual household costs and the fact that Mr and Mrs L would have had to pay 
down the remaining credit card and mail order principal balances of around £12,671, then 
I do not consider that the £394 a month for 48 months likely was a debt they could continue 
paying without being at risk of having to borrow again. 
The credit situation presented to Everyday Lending before Mr and Mrs L approached them 
for a £7,000 loan was that they had already obtained relatively new credit in the latter part of 
2016 and in the early months of 2017, and still they required more. And the application for 
the £7,000 in itself showed to Everyday Lending that they were not coping with the debt 
spread they already had. And so, the additional burden of a loan with it was not likely to be 
sustainable.
I uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
I understand this debt has been sold or assigned to a third party and so Everyday Lending 
should buy the debt back, bring it in-house, if it is able to do that, or liaise with the third party 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan, including any of the third party 
fees and charges which may have been added
treat any payments made by Mr and Mrs L in respect of this loan (including payments to 
the third party) as payments towards the capital amount of £7,000,
If Mr and Mrs L have paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to them with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending  should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr and Mrs L.
remove any adverse information about the loan including the default from Mr and Mrs Ls 
credit files.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending  to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if either of them asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr and 
Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman