DRN-4062424
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
terminated the income protection claim she made under a group income protection policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties. In summary Miss D became 
absent from work in 2010 due her health conditions and L&G admitted her claim. 
L&G reviewed her claim. In January 2022, although her GP felt she wouldnt be able to carry 
out her role due to chronic pain and fatigue, it terminated the claim on the basis that Miss D 
wasnt receiving specialist input or ongoing treatment. In addition, L&G had arranged an 
independent assessment (a Chronic Pain Abilities Determination) which concluded, in 
October 2021, that Miss D wasnt incapacitated to the extent that she wouldnt be able to 
carry out her role.
Initially our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint be upheld. Miss D appealed. 
She said that she often spoke to her GP and had been referred to specialists. As L&G hadnt 
seen Miss Ds medical records for the last few years our investigator recommended that 
L&G request Miss Ds full medical records and then reassess her claim.
Miss D agreed to this course of action.
L&G didnt agree. It said it had written to Miss Ds GP to understand the objective medical 
reasons and ongoing treatment they were providing. It was in the absence of ongoing 
objective medical evidence that it sought the independent medical examination. L&G didnt 
feel it was in Miss Ds best interests to delay the matter and requested a decision.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly though, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the 
parties. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the insurance contract and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I 
think L&G treated Miss D fairly.
L&G is aware that it bears the onus of showing that Miss D no longer meets the policy 
definition of disabled member. It has conducted a thorough assessment  commissioning 
an independent report, seeking the input of its Chief Medical Officer and asking Miss Ds GP 
for further information.
I understand why L&G feels it has demonstrated that it was able to terminate Miss Ds claim.  
However I am satisfied that a full review of the objective evidence should include the medical 
notes. Miss D says that she spoke to her GP often seeking medical help and received 
referrals. Whilst this isnt objective evidence in itself, it does seem to me that L&G should 
assess the medical notes to see if anything has been overlooked in order to determine 
whether it makes any difference to its decision to terminate the claim. I do accept that GPs 
will base the reports they write on the medical records and Miss Ds GP has written in 
support of her claim. But without having seen the full notes and checked that they accord (or 
otherwise) with Miss Ds evidence, Im not persuaded L&G could be satisfied that Miss D no 
longer met the policy definition of incapacity. 
Miss D should be aware that I am not directing L&G to continue paying her benefit, only to 
reassess her claim in the light of the GP records from 2015 to the date of the termination of 
benefit, which it hasnt yet seen. 
If Miss Ds condition has deteriorated since the final response from L&G, she is able to make 
a new claim. Likewise if she feels she has new evidence not previously shared with L&G, 
she can submit that for L&Gs consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that: 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should obtain the medical records 
from Miss Ds GP from 2015
Once in possession of these records it should re-assess its decision to terminate 
Miss Ds claim
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman