DRN-3670580
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to let them know about a large credit 
to their account being reversed, or explain why it had happened.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs K sold their car privately. The buyer made a bank transfer of 
£6,000 and they handed the car over. Later, that £6,00 was deducted from their account, 
having been recalled by the sending bank. This happened at least twice more over the 
following couple of days. Eventually the transfer was made successfully and not reversed.
Mr and Mrs K spent a long time on hold trying to speak to HSBC either on the phone or 
via live chat. When they finally got through to someone, the HSBC agent said it couldnt 
guarantee that any future transfers would be cleared and suggested there might be an 
issue with the sending bank.
Mr and Mrs K experienced a lot of stress and worry for a couple of days until the payment 
was successfully made, and complained to HSBC about the lack of explanation and 
assistance.
HSBC accepted that the delays in Mr and Mrs K being able to speak to someone were a 
failing, and paid them £30 by way of compensation. It didnt accept it had done anything 
else wrong.
Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service, and the adjudicator looked at 
everything and thought that the £30 HSBC had paid was enough. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs K dont accept that and have asked an Ombudsman to look at their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have found no evidence of a mistake by HSBC, beyond the customer 
service failings already identified, so am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
To be clear, the reversals of these sums were not instigated by HSBC, or within its control. 
Mr and Mrs K complain that the payments were reversed, without any explanation from 
HSBC.. This is quite right, because HSBC couldnt offer an explanation. The payments 
were recalled by the car buyers bank, possibly due to security or money laundering 
concerns, as it was a fairly large sum. But I dont know that, as the third party bank isnt 
involved in this complaint. HSBC was not able to flag, stop or explain these reversals.
I agree that the delays Mr and Mrs K experienced when trying to speak to HSBC were not 
ideal. HSBC agrees, and has already paid some compensation in respect of that.
The real source of understandable stress and upset for Mr and Mrs K  the repeated 
disappearance of the transfer from their account, and fears they may have been scammed 
by the car buyer  was not HSBCs fault. So it follows that I wouldnt direct HSBC to 
compensate Mr and Mrs K for that stress and upset, and therefore dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and HSBC doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman