DRN-2431054
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) handled her buildings insurance 
claim. 
Any reference to Zurich includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Ms O owns a flat in a block which is insured by Zurich.
In May 2018, Ms Os flat was damaged when rain water, following a storm, made its way into 
the property. The buildings gutters had become blocked which prevented rain water from 
draining away effectively.
The property has two bedrooms  one of which became uninhabitable as a result of the 
damage. As Ms O was letting the property at the time, she made a claim for loss of rent. 
Zurich agreed to pay 50% of the total rent to reflect that one bedroom couldnt be lived in.
By October 2018, the repair works had mostly been completed and the loss adjuster 
predicted the claim would be settled by December 2018. However, a few outstanding issues 
remained which meant this timeframe was missed. 
Having become unhappy with how Zurich was handling her claim, Ms O made a complaint in 
November 2019. She complained that Zurich: hadnt replaced the loft insulation; hadnt 
calculated the loss of rent fairly; had omitted the shower valve and bathroom cabinet from 
the claim in error; hadnt progressed her claim as it should have; and its communications 
made her feel bullied. 
Zurich responded to Ms Os concerns in January 2020. As part of its final response it 
acknowledged that it hadnt progressed Ms Os claim as quickly as it should have and that its 
service fell short of what she could expect. To recognise this, it paid £700 compensation. 
Ms O made a second complaint about the time it took Zurich to make the final settlement 
payment. In August 2020, Zurich sent another final response  in which it acknowledged a 
breakdown in communication between its agents had caused unnecessary delays. It paid an 
additional £300 compensation to reflect this. 
Ms O has confirmed the crux of her complaint is now about the time it took Zurich to resolve 
her claim and the customer service it provided. She doesnt feel the £1,000 it offered overall 
adequately reflects the difficulties shes experienced.
Our investigator considered the complaint. While he agreed the claim took longer than he 
would have considered reasonable, he was satisfied £1,000 fairly reflected the distress and 
inconvenience Ms O had experienced. 
Ms O disagreed. She said the claim took two years to be finalised - which is unacceptable - 
and the sum doesnt recognise the mental and physical stress she experienced. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined period. But where theres extensive damage and remedial works, things will 
obviously take longer.
Ms Os property was damaged by water ingress. Claims such as this generally take longer 
because of the need to adequately dry the property. From looking at the loss adjusters 
reports, it seems most of the repairs were completed by October 2018  five months after 
the damage first occurred.  I can see the works didnt commence until sometime after the 
loss adjusters initial visit.
Where repairs are required, there is always going to be some inconvenience and stress  it 
is, unfortunately, part and parcel of claims of this nature. So, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to hold Zurich responsible for inconvenience Ms O has incurred which was an 
inevitable consequence for this claim. 
What I need to consider is whether the distress and inconvenience Ms O experienced went 
beyond what can reasonably be expected in the circumstances. And if it did, whether 
Zurichs offer of compensation fairly reflects that. 
Its not in dispute that Zurich could have handled things better. Its apologised for the lack of 
communication between its agents and the subsequent impact this had  namely, delaying 
how quickly the claim was resolved and payment finalised. And from reviewing the evidence, 
I can see this was the case  so I agree it caused avoidable delays. 
Its difficult to say with certainty the extent of the delays, but I can see there had been weeks, 
and sometimes months, between communications. Notably, between June and December 
2018, theres approximately a period of six months between the initial report being provided 
and Report No.1. While I cant say this caused a six-month delay  because Ive seen that 
during this period the reinstatement works were mostly completed  Im satisfied it likely 
contributed to the fact the reinstatement works didnt happen as quickly as they ought to. 
I can also see that Ms O contacted Zurich on 3 December 2018 with some queries and to let 
Zurich know shed been advised to have a dehumidifier installed because of her worsening 
asthma. But because she didnt get a reply, she had to chase it up at the end of January 
2019 - which she shouldnt have had to do. So, theres a two-month period here where Ms O 
hadnt been given a satisfactory response.Ms O has said that most of the distress she experienced came from March 2019 to June 
2020. I can see that from December 2018 until June 2019, reports were issued on an almost 
monthly basis and the outstanding issues appear not to form part of the main reinstatement 
works. For example, I can see Ms O was claiming for loss of rent and some smaller repairs. I 
say smaller because the property being deemed habitable wasnt reliant on these issues 
being resolved  which is something I must keep in mind when considering the impact 
Zurichs delays had on her and the reasonableness of the level of compensation it has paid.  
The loss adjusters report detail that in May 2019 Ms O wanted further works carried out but 
that Zurich was awaiting further information from Ms O as to what these were. Report 6, 
dated June 2019, refers to the consumer not wanting to accept the settlement before 
pursuing the loss of rent issue with her property management service. It goes on to say that 
Zurich explained to Ms O it wouldnt change its settlement offer having renegotiated the loss 
of rent. While Ms O was entitled to explore these issues before accepting a settlement, they 
did inevitably lengthen the time in which the claim took be resolved  and I cant attribute this 
to Zurich having done something wrong. 
Aside from the delays in paying the cash settlement  which Ill go on to - theres limited 
information available to persuade me that Zurich caused further delays between March 2019 
and January 2020. Without it, I cant reasonably say that Zurich needs to pay more 
compensation. 
With regards to paying the cash settlement, I can see Zurich didnt action this as quickly as it 
ought to have following receipt of estimates from Mrs O for outstanding issues. Its not 
entirely clear from the information on file, but it appears this caused delays of a few months. 
Zurich recognised its service had fallen short here and paid £300 compensation  which 
forms part of the overall £1,000 it has paid. And given what Ive seen, this feels fair in the 
circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about Ms Os point that she felt bullied by Zurich. I appreciate Ms O 
feels strongly about this  and has referenced an email she feels was inappropriate. Shes 
also said she felt pressure to provide bank details when there were outstanding issues. I 
agree the tone of the email isnt reflective of good customer service. Zurich addressed this 
concern and assured Ms O it wasnt its intention to make her feel this way - which is what Id 
expect it to do. So, while I appreciate how Zurich may have made her feel, Ive considered 
the impact of this overall within the offer it has made.
Compensation isnt designed to fine businesses, its to recognise the impact a situation had 
on a consumer. Ms O has mentioned that due to her age the experience had a greater 
impact on her. It seems the argument Ms O is making is that two years is a substantial 
amount of time for someone of her age and that the situation would have had less of an 
impact on a younger consumer. 
In deciding whether I think Zurichs compensation is fair I have considered Ms Os individual 
circumstances  which includes her age. But age is one of many things I must take into 
consideration, and it doesnt necessary follow that an older consumer will always experience 
a greater impact. I dont doubt this was a difficult time for Ms O, but having looked at 
everything, Im satisfied £1,000 fairly compensates her for the delays and subsequent 
difficulties shes suffered  and that it is in line with the levels of compensation this service 
awards. So, I wont be asking Zurich to increase the compensation its already paid. 
While I know this will be disappointing for Ms O, I hope Ive been able to explain why I think 
this amount is fair.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman