DRN-4389369
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how One Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on her motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to One Insurance includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs A holds a motor insurance policy with One Insurance. When her car was hit by a drunk 
driver while parked, she made a claim for the damage. One Insurance accepted the claim, 
but Mrs A complains about its been handled.
One Insurance has only consented to us looking into events up to its final response letter of 
10 January 2023 in this complaint. So, Ive not considered anything thats happened after 
that in this decision. Should further things have happened which Mrs A is unhappy about, 
that would need to be looked at as a separate complaint.
Mrs As complaint centres around delays in repairing her car, and the provision of a courtesy 
car while this has been happening. She said she wasnt given a courtesy car in time 
meaning she had to spend money on taxis. And when she was given a car, it wasnt an 
automatic car like hers, meaning her and her husband have suffered pain in their knees and 
back. Shes said she had to rent a car for a planned trip away and was told shed be 
reimbursed the costs, but this hasnt happened.
One Sure offered £250 compensation, but Mrs A remained unhappy and brought her 
complaint here. One of our Investigators recommended her complaint be upheld. She 
thought One insurance should pay another £150 and reimburse Mrs A the taxi costs shed 
incurred before getting a courtesy car, and the cost of the hire car for her trip.
Mrs A agreed but One Insurance didnt and asked for an Ombudsmans decision, it 
maintained its offer of compensation was fair but provided no other comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
The claim was made on 24 July 2023, but Mrs A wasnt given a courtesy car until 10 
August 2023. Like our Investigator, Im satisfied that without further explanation, 
thats too long. So, One Insurance should pay Mrs A the cost she incurred on taxis 
during that time, plus 8 % simple interest. Had it provided a hire care sooner, these 
were costs she wouldnt have incurred.
From what Ive seen Mrs A let One Insurance know she needed a car for a planned 
trip away and was told to submit an invoice and shed be reimbursed. So, One 
Insurance should honour that, and reimburse this invoice, plus 8% simple interest.
Its acknowledged there were delays, so I dont need to go into detail on what those 
delays are, but like our Investigator, considering the time, and the action, or inaction 
on this claim, I think a fairer offer of compensation would be £400. So, I agree with 
our Investigator in that a further £150 is warranted.
I appreciate One Insurances points relating to part delays, but its not evidenced 
what the parts were or what other options it took to source them. And for three 
months the car was at a garage where no action was taken due to a lack of available 
technicians. But like our Investigator set out, One Insurance agreed to insure this car, 
so its responsible for repairing it when its damaged (assuming the damage is 
covered by the policy). Im not persuaded its fair that Mrs A should suffer because of 
a lack of available technicians.
I understand Mrs As point in relation to the courtesy car being a manual. But I can 
see that One Insurance tried to source an automatic but had none available. The 
policy does say any special requirement are subject to availability, so by trying, Im 
satisfied One Insurance fulfilled its obligation here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require One 
Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs A the cost of taxis between making the claim and 10 August 2023. 8 
% simple interest should be added to this payment. Interest should be calculated 
from the date Mrs A paid for the taxi, to the date One Insurance pays her.
Reimburse Mrs A for the hire car she took out for her trip away. 8 % simple interest 
should be added to this payment. Interest should be calculated from the date Mrs A 
provided the invoice to One Insurance to the date One Insurance pays her.
Pay Mrs A an additional £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman