DRN-3721806
The complaint
Companies that Ill refer to as O1 and O2 are joint policyholders. For ease of reading Ill refer 
to them both jointly as O. 
O has complained that Eastwood & Partners Limited (E&P) mis-sold their business 
interruption insurance policy. Mr L, a director of O, has complained on Os behalf.  
What happened
O bought a commercial insurance policy through E&P which renewed annually. The policy 
included cover for business interruption insurance. 
In 2020 O claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. Os insurer turned down its claim as they said the 
policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances of the claim. 
O complained to E&P about the sale of the policy. It said it had asked for cover for 
everything and thought E&Ps choice of policy wasnt in Os best interests. O said E&P had 
favoured the insurer and had caused O a loss. O referred to other policies which had been 
found to provide cover by the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Business Interruption Insurance test case. 
E&P said none of the policies available at the time were designed to cover a pandemic and 
therefore they didnt think they could have recommended a more suitable policy. They said 
theyd provided clear information to O about why the insurer wouldnt cover its claim and 
didnt think they were favouring the insurer. 
Unhappy with E&Ps response, O brought its complaint to our service. It questioned why 
E&P had recommended the policy that they did and why they had not recommended 
alternative policies at each renewal. O said that it was only at the latest renewal in 2021 that 
E&P recommended a change in insurer. 
Our investigator looked into Os complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think E&P had mis-sold the policy. He also explained that we couldnt consider Os complaint 
about the initial sale in 2016 or anything that happened before 1 April 2019 as Os business 
didnt meet the definition of a micro-enterprise at that time. 
O asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive issued a separate decision explaining why our service cant consider Os complaint 
about the initial sale of his policy or any of the renewals before 1 April 2019. This decision 
will, therefore, focus on the renewal of Os policy which took place in November 2019. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy a firm
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent
with them. As this was an advised sale, E&P had to take reasonable care to ensure the
suitability of their advice, as well as a general duty to provide information that was clear, fair
and not misleading. 
E&P wrote to O before the renewal in November 2019 with its recommendation for cover. 
Under the Statement of your insurance requirements it says that the recommendation is 
based on information previously provided by O and if those requirements had changed O 
should get in touch. The section goes on to set out Os requirements. 
Different policies cover different risks and I havent seen anything to persuade me that E&P
sold O a policy that wasnt consistent with its demands and needs. I can understand that O 
would have wanted some level of disease cover, but I havent seen anything to indicate that 
a wider cover for diseases was something which was particularly relevant to O at the time it 
bought the policy. While Os policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances of its claim, I 
cant reasonably expect E&P to have anticipated in November 2019 that O would require 
cover for a national pandemic from an unknown disease. 
I dont find it unusual for a policy to not cover every eventuality so while some other polices 
available to O might have ultimately provided cover, I dont believe that E&P did anything 
wrong in recommending the policy they did. Id expect E&P to highlight anything significant 
within the policy, but I dont think the lack of cover for a pandemic or Government lockdown 
was significant at the time the policy renewed. 
Ive considered Os point that E&P continued to recommend the same policy each year, but I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that this policy wasnt consistent with Os demands 
and needs. E&Ps Terms of Business set out that they may use a selection of insurers or 
may only use a single insurer depending on the product. They say a policyholder can 
request a copy of the list of insurers E&P use. I can see that at the renewal in 2021 E&P 
suggested looking for a different insurer, but they said this was because the insurers risk 
appetite had changed. 
I understand Mr L was frustrated to find that Os policy didnt provide cover for the
circumstances of its claim, but I think E&P proposed a policy that was consistent with its
demands and needs specified and provided information that was clear, fair and not
misleading. I think they took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice, so it
follows that I dont think E&P mis-sold Os policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O1 and O2 to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman