DRN-3721723
The complaint
Mr T says HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, acted unreasonably when it refused
his request for a £30,000 cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr T called First Direct on 9 March 2022 as he wished to pre-arrange a cash withdrawal at
an HSBC branch. First Direct asked about the reason for the withdrawal. Mr T said he
wanted access to cash, later explaining that he wanted to be able to anonymously gift cash
to friends and families who were struggling due to ever-increasing living costs. First Direct
called back to say it would not allow the single withdrawal. It suggested other options to Mr T
such as bank transfers, multiple ATM withdrawals and lower value counter withdrawals over
a period of time. Mr T explained was this not convenient and why it was not what he wanted
to do.
He complained to the bank about its decision, but First Direct said it has a duty of care to
protect both Mr T and the bank so it could not change its position. Mr T brought his
complaint to this service saying he wanted the bank to apologise for its condescending
attitude to his request and to compensate him for the inconvenience caused by the
numerous branch visits he had to make.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint. He said first direct has relied on the clause in the
terms and conditions of Mr Ts account that says it can refuse to make payments when you
havent given us any extra information about the payment that weve reasonably asked for.
But he felt Mr T had provided additional information. And he had reassured the bank no-one
had asked him to withdraw the funds. He noted that whilst the bank suggested alternatives
means of gifting the money, such as by bank transfer, Mr T had been clear why this was not
suitable for his giving.
In summary, he found the banks decision was not reasonable and caused Mr T
inconvenience. He awarded £150 compensation for this. But he felt the banks advisers had
been professional throughout both calls so did not make an award for poor service, or
instruct the bank to apologise.
Mr T replied to clarify a number of details in the view, but primarily to emphasise that he was
seeking an apology for the banks condescending comments, and what he sees as its
prioritisation of consumerism over compassion  not a lack of professionalism.
First Direct disagreed with the investigators assessment. It said it is within its rights to
exercise its duty of care and do what is best for the customer. The risk of Mr T being robbed
or scammed on leaving the branch with £30,000 was much greater than if he made multiple
smaller withdrawals. This was an unusual request, that had no back-up such as an invoice
or a bill. If Mr Ts contacts were in such need surely they would accept a bank transfer, or an
ATM could have been used to access smaller cash amounts for those with no bank account.
It disagrees it should compensate Mr T for any inconvenience  whilst it will try to
accommodate cash withdrawals Mr T has opted to bank with a digital and phone bank with
no branches and so those channels should allow him to do his necessary banking.
I reached a different decision to the investigator and didnt plan to uphold the complaint, so I 
issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked 
both parties to send any new information or comments by 7 October 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
When Mr T asked to withdraw some £30,0000 in a single cash transaction First
Direct wanted to find out more about his reasons for wanting to do this. And I find it was
reasonable for the bank to also query why a safer method of payment could not be used.
I have listened carefully to the call between the parties on 9 March 2022. I think Mr Ts
replies were initially quite opaque by saying the reason for the withdrawal was to have cash
availability. He did go on to explain that as he was fortunate enough to be in position to help
friends and family who were struggling with rising living costs, he intended to make
anonymous cash gifts. But this was a very unusual response so I can see why the bank was
hesitant. In addition, given Mr Ts reply it was not possible for him provide any substantive
evidence, such as an invoice, to reassure the bank.
I therefore think it was reasonable for First Direct to continue to adopt a relatively cautious
approach, given the amount of money involved. Its suggestions to increase Mr Ts ATM limit
to £2,000 to allow him to access the cash via a number of lower value transactions; or to
transfer it to the recipients bank accounts; or to make a number of smaller counter
withdrawals were, in my view, reasonable in the circumstances. Even where an individual is
not being coerced or defrauded, there is a significant risk in dealing with large sums in cash,
and I think it was reasonable of First Direct to take the view that it did not wish to take or
support that risk  irrespective of whether Mr T said he was happy to. That is consistent with
the account terms, which state for cash withdrawals there may be limits to the amount you
can take out and allow the bank to refuse a payment instruction in certain circumstances.
Mr T said he could not make bank transfers as some of the people did not have bank
accounts and he did not want the inconvenience of travelling to the branch repeatedly. But I
cant see there was a reason he could not have withdrawn the cash via ATMs over say a
two-week period. Mr T confirmed on one of the three calls I have the recordings for that he
intended to gift the cash over the next couple of months so this solution would still have
allowed him to distribute the money as he planned to.
It follows I dont think it was unreasonable for First Direct to refuse to meet Mr Ts request for
£30,000 in a single cash withdrawal. I understand Mr Ts frustration but First Direct never
suggested Mr T was not entitled to the money which it holds in his name. I find, for his and
its own protection, it was fair and reasonable that it suggested it pay him in a different way.
In terms of the service provided, I dont think that the bank was condescending  I accept it
did ask the question are you going to be like a Father Christmas? but from the tone and
attitude of adviser I think this more driven by a genuine desire to understand Mr Ts plan.
There may have been a better way to do this. I also dont think there is evidence that First
Direct prioritised consumerism over compassion. There was reference to a car purchase as
part of the discussion about times when a significant cash withdrawal may be made  but
then the discussion moved on as the bank said that payment will more often than not be an
electronic transfer now. I dont think it was an easy call for either party, but I dont find there
is a need for an apology from First Direct regarding this aspect of Mr Ts complaint.
It follows I am not currently planning to ask First Direct to take any further action.
Both parties responded before the deadline which has allowed me to issue this final 
decision. First Direct accepted the provisional decision. Mr T said he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party sent in any new evidence or comments I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome set out in my provisional decision.
For the reasons set out above, I dont find it was unreasonable for First Direct to refuse to 
meet Mr Ts request for £30,000 in a single cash withdrawal. And nor do I think it provided 
sub-standard service.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman