DRN-2790648
The complaint
Miss D and Miss J complain that Soteria Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy.
Miss D has dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to her only.
What happened
Miss D got in touch with Soteria after she noticed cracking in her house. Soteria appointed a 
loss adjuster. They inspected the damage and concluded it hadnt been caused by 
subsidence or any other cause covered by the policy. Miss D complained about this.
Soteria said the damage wasnt consistent with subsidence. But Miss D was entitled to 
obtain her own report if she wished to challenge the loss adjusters findings. It accepted 
there had been a delay carrying out the inspection and gave Miss D £50 compensation.
An investigator considered Soteria had acted fairly when it declined the claim. Miss D 
disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The policy only covers damage caused in certain ways. For example, by fire, theft or 
subsidence. If the damage hasnt been caused in one of those ways, Soteria is 
entitled to decline it.
The policy says subsidence means the downward movement of the ground beneath 
the building other than by settlement. This is consistent with how subsidence is 
commonly defined.
Soteria appointed a suitably qualified expert to inspect the damage, consider what 
had caused it and whether this was covered by the policy.
The experts report is clear, detailed, and persuasive. And its accompanied by 
photos which support the content of the report.
In summary the expert found no evidence of subsidence at Miss Ds house.
They described the damage and their opinion of the likely causes, including historic 
settlement, lintel failure, thermal shrinkage and joist deflection.
Im satisfied that none of these causes amount to subsidence or any other cause 
covered by the policy.
I havent seen any evidence from other experts to challenge these findings.
Overall Im satisfied Soteria thoroughly considered Miss Ds claim and acted fairly 
when it declined it.
Miss D is understandably concerned about the crack damage and how to put it right. 
Soteria isnt required to provide support or advice about how to put right damage 
which isnt covered by the policy. Miss D may wish to take appropriate advice about 
how to put the damage right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss D and Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Miss J 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman