DRN-4153381
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) provided 
to him in relation to his home emergency (central heating cover) insurance policy. 
What happened
British Gas arranged an annual boiler service for 1 June 2022 with Mr M which it had to 
cancel at short notice. Mr M wasnt happy about this and complained.
On 23 June Mr M reported that his hot water stopped working and that his gas had been 
turned off by British Gas contractors who also damaged his garden border edging. British 
Gas said issues with the gas supply would have to be referred to a different department as 
they were unrelated to the home emergency cover. But it said it would send an engineer to 
carry out the repairs.
Mr M raised a further complaint around 4 July and said that a boiler service wasnt carried 
when the engineer attended on 23 June. British Gas said, according to its notes, a service 
had been carried out. 
British Gas issued two final response letters. In the first one, sent 29 June 2022, it said 
appointments can be cancelled at short notice especially during periods of high demand as it 
has to prioritise breakdowns over service appointments. But it paid Mr M £25 compensation 
for the inconvenience he suffered as a result of this. 
In the second final response letter, sent on 4 July 2022, it said that an appointment had been 
made for 23 June 2022 for both a repair and a service. It said Mr M didnt want a service to 
be carried out as he had other commitments, but its records showed that a service was 
carried out. Nevertheless, it offered to arrange another visit or to pay Mr M £65 for the cost 
of the annual service. As Mr M wasnt happy with the service he was receiving the matter 
was referred to a manager who gave him the same options but said the service could be 
arranged for July 2022, subject to availability. 
Mr M said when he spoke to British Gas about his complaints it arranged a further 
appointment for him for 6 July. But no one attended that appointment either. British Gas said 
an appointment was not booked for 6 July but it was still waiting for Mr M to choose between 
arranging a further appointment or the £65. It said Mr M didnt respond to say which option 
he preferred. Mr M wasnt happy with this and asked British Gas to provide a copy of the 
relevant call. He also said he was unhappy with British Gass handling of the matter as well 
as the service it was providing.
Mr M then complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he wanted for all 
outstanding issues to be resolved and to be compensated for the time spent chasing British 
Gas and for its failure to attend the appointments. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt 
the £25 compensation British Gas offered for the cancelled appointment was fair. He also 
thought British Gass offer to arrange another appointment or to pay Mr M £65 was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He asked for further information 
including calls with British Gas where a further appointment had been arranged. Our 
Investigator made further enquiries with British Gas but for technical reasons it said it wasnt 
able to provide any of the calls or emails. The manager Mr M had spoken to at the time 
recalled that they had spoken and said she had offered Mr M another service or £65 but not 
both. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the disappointment this may cause Mr M, Ive decided 
not to uphold it. I trust that my reasons below will help Mr M understand why I have arrived 
at this decision. 
Mr M was unhappy that the 1 June appointment was cancelled at short notice. From what 
I have seen the appointment was cancelled 30 minutes before it was due to take place. 
British Gas said that its terms allow it to prioritise breakdowns over service appointments 
during periods of high demand and I think this is fair. Nevertheless, I appreciate that a 
cancellation at short notice would have been frustrating for Mr M. British Gas offered Mr M 
£25 for the inconvenience this caused and, in the circumstances, I think this was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr M said that no service was carried out on 23 June. From what I have seen, British Gass 
records show that a service was carried out on 23 June 2022, at the same time as the 
repairs. The record shows that the service lasted 28 minutes. I note that Mr M disputes this 
but I find the notes, which Im satisfied were completed at the time of the service, to be 
persuasive. So, on balance, I think a service did take place on that day. In any event British 
Gas had offered to carry out a further service or pay Mr M £65 which I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M said a further appointment was arranged for 6 July but no one attended. He said this 
was agreed during one of the calls that British Gas hasnt been able to provide. British Gas 
said a further appointment was not arranged for that day. From what I have seen, Mr M 
emailed British Gas on the morning of 6 July to say no one had attended and British Gas 
responded within minutes to say that no further appointment had been arranged and that it 
was still waiting for him to confirm whether he wanted a further appointment or the £65. 
I appreciate what Mr M says, but I havent seen anything that suggests that a 6 July 
appointment was arranged. I appreciate we dont have the call Mr M is referring to but if a 
further appointment had been booked, I would have expected British Gas to have noted this 
somewhere. 
In its emails with Mr M at the time it confirmed that no appointment had been arranged. Also 
in one of its final responses it referred to Mr Ms conversation with the manager who Mr M 
says arranged the 6 July appointment when they spoke but it doesnt say an appointment 
had been booked. It does say that if Mr M wants an appointment in July one can be 
arranged subject to availability.  
Ive also seen a note of the conversation on 29 June which I think is the call Mr M is referring 
to. The note mentions the £25 compensation for the broken visit. It also says that Mr M was 
told a visit can be rescheduled and that he was provided [with] dates of servicing within contractual year. Its unclear if this means that he was given possible dates for the 
appointment, but the note doesnt say a further appointment had been booked and doesnt 
mention a specific date. A note on 4 July also mentions that Mr M was offered £65 or a 
further appointment even though a service was carried out on 23 June, but doesnt mention 
a specific appointment being arranged. 
I have no reason to doubt what Mr M says he believes was agreed but I think there was 
probably a misunderstanding. And as I havent seen anything to say that there was a 6 July 
appointment that wasnt honoured, I am not minded to award any compensation in relation to 
this. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman