DRN-3882026
The complaint
Mr K complains that he got poor service from Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr K had a current account with Santander. He bought goods from an online retailer and 
wanted to raise a dispute through Santander. He couldnt do that through Santanders 
website and on 21 April 2022, asked for a link to upload the necessary documents.  It didnt 
arrive and he called Santander again for it on 27 April 2022. Santander emailed the link to 
him on that day. 
Mr K complained. He said hed spent a long time (over an hour) on the phone trying to sort 
things out. And that was because Santander didnt send him the link. He also said that 
Santanders complaint handling was inefficient  as on the call on 27 April 2022, he asked to 
be transferred to complaints - and was transferred to the disputes team instead. He said the 
whole complaints process took too long.
Santander said they were sorry that the link wasnt received by Mr K first time. But they 
could see from their records that the link was sent to Mr K by email on 21 April 2022 at 
2.33pm. They couldnt say why he didnt receive this. They said Mr K had since confirmed 
that he received the link. They were sorry that when Mr K called on 27 April 2022, he was 
put through to the disputes team rather than the complaints team. But there wasnt any 
impact on Mr K as the link was resent that day.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator initially upheld his complaint as she 
couldnt see that Santander had resolved it. She said Mr K should receive compensation of 
£125. Santander didnt agree and showed us more information about what happened. Our 
investigator then said Santander acted reasonably. She said theyd sent the link to Mr K 
twice. And Mr K had also had the forms by post to complete. While Mr K preferred 
email/electronic means, he was given several ways to submit the dispute evidence.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint: so, its come to me for that purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr K felt frustrated by what happened and had to call Santander to resolve 
things. But my role is to decide if Santander acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Ks 
situation, and I think they did. I will explain why Ive decided that.
Mr K wanted to file a dispute about an online purchase he had made. On the call on 21 April 
2022 (which I listened to)  he confirmed he had received the forms in the post to complete. 
But he wanted to submit his claim evidence online  as he said he didnt have a printer and 
the post would take up to two weeks to complete and process. I heard the call handler say 
she would email him the link to do that. And I can see in Santanders records that they 
emailed it at 2.33pm that day. On the call, Mr K spelt out his email address  and that was 
the same one as Mr K has used in corresponding with our service. I cant say why Mr K 
didnt get the email  but I cant in all fairness say that Santander didnt act reasonably here.
Mr K called Santander again on 27 April 2022 to say he hadnt had the email. I listened to 
that call also. The call handler (on a general service line) gave him two options  to speak to 
the complaints team, or to the disputes team. Mr K asked to speak to complaints. 
Unfortunately, the call handler didnt realise that Santanders disputes team have their own 
complaints line and after learning that, she put Mr K though to disputes. Mr K wasnt happy 
with that  but the result was that another email with the link was sent to Mr K that day, at 
2.23pm. So  there wasnt any adverse impact on Mr K here. 
I appreciate that Mr K says he was on the phone for an hour and had been inconvenienced. I 
timed the call at 25 minutes - but appreciate that there may have been some additional 
waiting time before Mr K got through. Hes also complained that the transfer to disputes was 
not what he asked for. Ive considered this  and Mr K did get the link again as a result of his 
call. And on balance, I dont think I can say that the time on the call was unreasonable.
Mr K had also received the forms to complete by post. I accept that he preferred to deal with 
Santander electronically  by using the link. He says he didnt have a printer and so couldnt 
use that method. But I cant hold Santander responsible for that  and I think its reasonable 
to say that he couldve found a way to submit the documents by post.
Mr K has also argued that Santander took too long to deal with his complaint. But I cant look 
at that. Thats because this service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, 
and cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This 
defines a complaint as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically 
about a businesss complaint handling or processes arent included. Mr Ks concerns here 
are specifically about how they handled a complaint, so  this aspect of his complaint isnt 
one we can look at.
I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman