DRN-4341598
The complaint
Miss R complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to advance fee scam. 
What happened
Miss R was interesting in having a media wall built at her home. A friend shared with her a 
company profile/page on a social media platform, which the friend had seen but hadnt used 
themself. Miss R says the company posted pictures with a well-known personality of work 
theyd completed for them. Miss R made an enquiry with the company/individual through the 
social media platform and got a quote for the works. She considered the quote to be 
reasonably priced. Miss Rs contact with the individual moved over to a messaging app.  
Miss R proceeded to make two payments to the details given to her by the 
company/individual  one for £1.00 and another for £1,000 as a deposit for the works to be 
completed. 
After making the payment, Miss R didnt hear from the individual and they didnt arrive at her 
home on the arranged date. Due to no contact, Miss R contacted Metro to raise a fraud 
scam on 29 August 2022. Following this, the individual contacted Miss R and provided 
numerous reasons as to why theyd not been in touch and hadnt started the works.
 
Miss R explained that the individual later threatened her. She told the individual/company 
that she no longer wished to proceed, and she asked for a refund but this has not been 
received. 
Following Miss Rs fraud claim, Metro investigated but didnt agree to reimburse her. It 
considered her complaint under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code). It wrote:
It was felt that you were liable to the scam as there was no reasonable basis for belief that 
you were dealing with a genuine seller. Although you found the company you had paid on 
Companies house, you did not carry out any effective and thorough research to determine the 
companys legitimacy. For instance, there had been multiple independent reviews [online] and 
[on a social media site] relating to the company. Furthermore, you did not meet the seller, and 
offered to pay a deposit before they arranged a date for inspection of the workspace. Overall, 
we believe that more could have been done to justify that the seller was providing a legitimate 
service. 
Overall, Metro considered Miss R was liable for the money she lost to the scam. It attempted 
to recover her funds from the receiving bank (account the funds were sent to) but no funds 
remained. 
Miss R was unhappy with Metros response and referred the complaint to this service. One 
of our Investigators looked into the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. 
When considering the payments Miss R made under the CRM Code, our Investigator 
thought there was enough going on that Miss R ought to have had some concerns about the 
transaction she was making and so, he didnt think Miss R had met her requirements under 
the CRM Code. He also didnt think it would have been apparent when making the payments 
that Miss R was at risk of being scammed. He also didnt think Metro needed to provide an 
effective warning under the CRM Code or that it ought to have contacted Miss R before 
allowing the payments to be processed. 
Miss R didnt agree with our Investigators view. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts.
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Metro to 
refund the money Miss R sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Miss R was 
hoping for and I can understand why she wants to try and recover this money. But having 
thought about Metros actions, I am unable to say it has a responsibility for refunding the 
money Miss R sent. I will explain why.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code. As 
Ive said above, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. A Firm may 
choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I dont think Miss R had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom she 
transacted was legitimate. I say this because:
Miss R told our Investigator about a meeting that was due to take place prior to her 
making the deposit payments, which the individual did not arrive for. For ease, Ill 
refer to this as the pre-meeting/to measure up the work. When they didnt arrive, Miss R sought to confirm if the individual would still be starting the works on the 
agreed date and asked when the deposit was to be paid. It would appear based on 
what Ive seen that Miss R seemingly took the word of the individual, whom shed not 
met in person and proceeded to make the deposit payments despite them not 
showing up for the pre-meeting. I think this ought to have made her pause for thought 
and proceed more cautiously. 
As mentioned above, Miss R hadnt met the individual for the company. Shes 
referred to a picture of a person with the known personality on the social media page 
in relation to the advertised work it said it had completed for them. But Miss R wasnt 
aware if this was infact the individual she was in contact with as shed not met the 
individual or seen them face to face. I know Miss R found the endorsement of the 
well-known personality to be persuasive and she says she had no reason to believe 
that the individual/company were not legitimate if that individual was providing good 
reviews. Im afraid I dont agree. Whilst the pictures and social media page might 
have shown a personality that Miss R was familiar with, on balance, I dont find this 
aspect in and of itself convincing that the payments she was making were for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom she transacted 
was legitimate. 
Miss R says she checked Companies House for the company and saw it was listed. 
She also made the payments to the person named on Companies House. This, 
alongside the endorsement from the known personality, Miss R says led to her 
thinking the company was legitimate. Miss R adds that she didnt see any negative 
reviews about the company until after she made the payments and reported the 
scam. Ive thought carefully about what Miss R has told us. Having looked at the 
company information myself, I can see there was an application in April 2022, prior to 
the payments Miss R made, to strike off the company. There are further entries about 
the strike off in May and June 2022. While I note the information from June 2022 
indicates the strike off was suspended, I think this information more likely than not 
would have been seen by Miss R when she checked Companies House. In turn, I 
think this information ought to have prompted her to ask further questions prior to 
making the payments. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Miss R from proceeding to make the payments. But when 
taken collectively and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in 
the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that 
Miss R ought reasonably to have been concerned that things werent as they seemed. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Miss R had a reasonable basis for believing 
that she was making payments towards genuine goods or services, or that the person or 
business she was dealing with was legitimate. So, Im not persuaded that Metro should have 
reimbursed Miss Rs loss because of any obligation under the CRM Code.Should Metro have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Metro engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character transactions 
with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm. And under the 
CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP scam, it was 
required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Miss R was falling victim to a scam. 
But based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Metro 
wouldve had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say this because the 
account was newly opened and so there wasnt a lot of previous activity on the account. 
The payments werent for a particularly large amount (although I appreciate it is a lot of 
money to Miss R) and didnt leave the balance of her account at a particularly unusual level 
 there was still a healthy balance in the account. So, I dont think the payments will have 
looked suspicious or would have stood out to Metro and I wouldnt expect it to have identified 
a scam risk as a result of it. 
It follows, that I dont think Metro was required to provide an effective warning under the 
CRM Code, or that it has failed to meet its obligations under the CRM Code by not doing so.
Recovery of funds
Ive also considered whether Metro did all it could to try and recover the money Miss R lost, 
once she had reported the scam. I can see Metro contacted the receiving bank once it was 
aware of the scam, but unfortunately no funds remained. So overall, I dont think there was 
anything more Metro couldve done to recover Miss Rs funds. 
Its very unfortunate Miss R has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting. I have a great deal of sympathy for her and I dont 
underestimate the impact this has had. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask Metro to refund her the money she sadly lost.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman