DRN-4174806
The complaint
Mr H has complained through a representative that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat 
(Cashfloat) didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks before it granted loans to him.  
What happened
A summary of Mr Hs borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £750.00 04/06/2021 29/10/2021 6 £214.50
2 £400.00 14/03/2022 29/04/2022 3 £184.65
Cashfloat wrote to Mr Hs representative with a final response letter and explained why it 
didnt consider an error had been made by providing these loans. Cashfloat did offer, as a 
gesture of goodwill £50, but Cashfloat said the offer would be withdrawn if the complaint was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Unhappy with this response, Mr Hs representative 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold it. In summary, this 
was because there was a gap in lending between the loans. He also thought that Cashfloat 
had carried out proportionate checks - which showed the loans to be affordable. 
Mr Hs representative didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and instead asked for 
an ombudsmans review. Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Hs complaint and I would agree as there were only two loans with a gap 
between them.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint. 
There is a significant break in lending between loan 1 being repaid and loan 2 being granted. 
This break is in my view, significant enough for Cashfloat to have treated Mr Hs second loan 
application as if he was a new customer. This does have implications for the proportionate 
nature of the checks, because the second loan effectively becomes loan 1 in a new chain. 
Ive kept this in mind when thinking about Mr Hs overall lending history. 
Before these loans were approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Mr H worked full time and received a monthly salary of £3,750 when 
loan 1 was granted and £4,000 when loan 2 was advanced.  Cashfloat says his declared 
income was cross referenced with a third-party salary tool, and the results were positive, 
indicating a high degree of accuracy. It was therefore reasonable for Cashfloat to have relied 
on what Mr H declared and the results of its checks.  
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr H declared to be £960 per 
month for loan 1 and £1,550 for loan 2. 
Its worth saying here that Cashfloat says that it assessed Mr Hs monthly expenditure using 
what is calls trigger values  taken from a well-known debt charity and these values take 
account of an applicants job, location, homeowner status to name a few factors. 
Having used these trigger values it estimated Mr Hs monthly outgoings were at a maximum 
likely to be £2,893 and to that it added a further buffer of £100  these were the figures used 
for Cashfloats affordability assessments. Even using the larger monthly outgoings along 
with the buffer, there was still sufficient disposable income for Mr H to be able to afford the 
repayments for both loans. 
It doesnt appear that Cashfloat carried out a credit search before these loans were 
approved. But there was no regulatory requirement to do one. So, the fact no credit search 
was likely conducted isnt a reason to solely uphold the complaint.
The overall lending pattern such as the amounts that were borrowed and the break in 
lending wouldnt in my view have triggered further checks from Cashfloat or led it to 
conclude that the loans were unsustainable. Based on the checks that Cashfloat did do, Im satisfied these were proportionate to the 
circumstances of each loan. So, although Mr Hs representative has sent copies of his bank 
account statements, in this case, I dont think Cashfloat needed to have considered them. 
I say this because Mr Hs borrowing history  including the amounts borrowed the gaps 
between loans, the way Mr H repaid his loans, as well as what Cashfloat discovered through 
its checks - wouldnt, in my view have led it to be believe that it needed to go further, such as 
reviewing his bank statements. In my view, to have reviewed the bank statements wouldve 
been disproportionate in the circumstances. 
Taking account of the lending relationship  Mr H was only granted 2 loans in two lending 
chains; I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to have relied on the information Mr H 
provided to it and the results of its own checks. There also wasnt anything to suggest that 
Mr H was having either current financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments would 
be unsustainable for him. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman