DRN-3971645
The complaint
Mr R complains about Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response to a claim made on his behalf by 
a claims management company (the CMC) under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the Act) about a solar panel system (the system) which he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier. 
What happened
In December 2014 Mr R agreed to purchase the system from the supplier. He paid for it 
using a loan that was repayable over 180 months. The CMC says Mr R was told that the 
system would be self-funding in that the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) income and savings on his 
electricity bills would cover the loan repayments. And that this was a misrepresentation 
which induced Mr R into entering into the contract. 
Shawbrook did not uphold the claim, so the CMC referred a complaint about this to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the matter. She didnt uphold the complaint because she 
thought that although the supplier had said the system would be self-funding, the evidence 
suggested that this was not a misrepresentation. 
The CMC disagreed, saying that its calculations showed the system was not self-funding. As 
such Ive been asked to make a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
This gave Shawbrook and Mr R time to respond with any further comments or information. 
The deadline I gave has passed and Ive received nothing further, so this final decision is in 
line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
Mr Rs complaint is about a claim under section 75 and so the appropriate parts of the Act 
are relevant. 
As Mr R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr R could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 of the Act is relevant because it says, in effect, that any negotiations between  
the supplier and Mr R are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of 
the Shawbrook.
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Principle 6 states, A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly. So, Shawbrook should have treated Mr R fairly when it 
declined his section 75 claim. 
What Mr R was told
A quote was completed at the time of sale which included information about the system and 
provided estimated benefits, which were compared to the indicative monthly loan 
repayments as follows (the actual loan repayments were slightly higher):
The table shows the total benefit in year one was estimated to be £2,055.89, or £171.32 per 
month on average. The indicative loan repayments were £159.90 per month, which is less 
that the projected benefit. And add up to a total of £1,918.80 in loan repayments each year. 
The actual loan repayments were £162.55 per month or £1,950.60 per year, still less than 
the projected benefit in year one. 
Based on this, and other information provided in the quote, Im satisfied that Mr R was told 
the system was expected to be self-funding on an annual basis from the first year. 
These estimates were based on the following assumptions:
FIT generation tariff rate 13.03 p/kWh
FIT export tariff rate 4.77 p/kWh
FIT inflation rate (RPI) 2.92% per year 
Electricity unit rate 15.31 p/kWh  
Electricity price inflation 8.5% per year 
Self-consumption rate 50%
Im satisfied these assumptions were reasonable. The FIT rates available at the time match 
the figures used in the quote. Mr R was paying a slightly lower rate for his electricity at that 
time, but I cant be sure that the supplier was made aware of that, so I think it was 
reasonable for it to make an assumption. 
The inflation rates were based on the average inflation rates over approximately ten years 
prior to the sale. And the self-consumption rate used was the standard used in the industry 
at that time. 
Having checked the suppliers calculation of the benefits likely to be produced (based on 
those assumptions) Im satisfied that the estimates are reasonable. That being the case, I 
would not find this to be a misrepresentation if the system didnt produce the estimated 
benefits because, for example, Mr R paid less per unit of electricity than estimated in the first 
year, actual inflation was lower than estimated, or Mr R used less than 50% of the electricity 
generated by the solar panels. 
Ive checked the FIT payments Mr R received in the first year, and these exceeded the 
amounts estimated by the supplier. That means the system generated as much or more than 
the amount of electricity projected by the supplier. So, the savings were in theory achievable. 
But the actual savings will depend on how Mr R uses electricity at the property, which is 
beyond the control of the supplier. Because of this I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude that there was a misrepresentation simply because the estimated 
savings werent actually achieved. 
So, overall, I do not think the benefits of the system were misrepresented to Mr R, nor do I 
think it was a misrepresentation to say that those benefits were likely to exceed the loan 
repayments from the first year. That representation was based on accurate information 
about the system and reasonable assumptions about FIT and electricity unit rates and Mr 
Rs usage. 
I note that Mr R has said the system is now only working intermittently, which naturally will 
affect the benefits he receives. But that was not an issue raised as part of Mr Rs claim to 
Shawbrook. And I am only able to make a decision about whether Shawbrook not upholding 
the claim was fair. I think it was. So, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman