DRN-3223903
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited has rejected the claim he made under 
sections 75, 56 and 104A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2015, Mr C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at his home. Following a 
visit from a representative of P, Mr C decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In May 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true and that these misrepresentations had induced Mr C to 
enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
The system would pay for itself within the period of the loan and cost Mr C nothing.
The monthly loan instalments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills 
and the feed-in-tariff (or FIT) payments.
The CMC said too that Ps representative was at Mr Cs property for over two hours and 
used pressurised sale tactics.
After a lengthy delay, Shawbrook issued a final response, disagreeing that the system had 
been misrepresented to Mr C or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. It did however acknowledge that it had not dealt with the complaint as quickly as it 
should have done and offered Mr C £200 in recognition of that. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr C was not provided with a copy of the quotation but relied on the verbal 
representations made by P.
The quotation provides an estimated payback time of nine years and Mr C will be in 
profit from year 10.
The quotation is not signed by Mr C.
Mr C was 68 at the point of sale and would not have purchased the system without 
assurances that it would be self-funding.
As no agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement provided under arrangements 
it had with P, Shawbrook accepts that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that 
Mr C can claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by P in the same way he could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken 
section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by Shawbrook. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering 
whether there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Cs recollection of the 
sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Self-funding
Mr C has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the benefits of the system. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr C has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr C could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £501.44.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity saving is £311.98 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr C, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £921.75. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
There is a section headed Repayments with three tables set out over 60 months, 120 
months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the length of the 
loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 120 monthly 
payments of £120.55 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, 
averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that he was told the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the benefits of the system.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system against 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in a format which makes it easy to compare 
the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start; 
I think the quote makes clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over 
time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 20 years. This shows that 
by year 12 the overall benefits that Mr C could expect to receive would have exceeded the 
total amount payable under the loan agreement.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr C that the system would pay for itself by 
year 12, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I 
were satisfied that this was what induced Mr C to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,366.50 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Cs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,490.41 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from 
the solar panels.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C could 
expect to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have 
been as high as estimated at the point of sale, I dont believe this was because P made 
unreasonable assumptions when Mr C entered into the contract.
Additional points raised by the CMC
In response to the assessment the CMC raised some additional points.
The CMC has said that Mr C was not provided with a copy of the quotation. I am satisfied 
that on balance the quotation would have been provided to Mr C. He has signed the 
document on page 23 and on page 26. It was Ps normal practice to email this document to 
their consumers shortly after the initial meeting. In its initial complaint letter the CMC said 
that P had showed Mr C  a plethora of facts, figures and charts . I think it likely that this 
was a reference to the quotation. 
Shawbrook has also provided evidence showing that P called Mr C on 7 October 2015 and 
completed a welcome call. The notes suggest that Mr C confirmed he received a copy of the 
quotation.
The CMC has said that the quote details a 9-year payback period and believe that this 
amounts to a misrepresentation. However, I can see that the quote does detail that this 
payback period is based on the cash purchase and if a consumer chooses to purchase the 
system with finance the payback period would be different. 
The CMC has said too that P used pressurised sale tactics to sell the system. Having 
carefully considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that the sales process was 
unreasonably pressurised and, given the cost of the installation and the long-term nature of 
the loan term, I dont think the length of time the salesman was in Mr Cs house is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. It is, in my view, consistent with the time that would have 
been needed to explain the system, the quote and the finance arrangements. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system. It follows that I do not believe that the credit agreement 
created an unfair relationship between Mr C and Shawbrook, and I have found no other 
reason to uphold this complaint.
I simply leave it to Mr C to decide whether, on reflection, he wants to accept Shawbrooks 
offer of £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman