DRN-4530788
The complaint
Ms J complains that Pi Financial Ltd delayed processing her defined benefit (DB) pension 
transfer. She says that because of Pis actions, the transfer value that she was originally 
offered was then reduced in value by £118,536.
Ms J would now like Pi to recompense her for the reduced transfer value, as well as the lost 
investment growth and wider costs on those monies that she believes are attributable to their 
actions. 
What happened
In April 2022, Ms J had a meeting with an appointed representative of Pi to discuss her 
retirement planning needs after recently being made redundant from work. She wanted to 
explore moving her deferred DB scheme to a new personal pension and then extracting 
some of the tax-free cash to repay her mortgage and then fully retire from work. After a 
number of interactions, on 16 May 2022, Ms J committed to proceeding with the DB transfer 
and signed the paperwork to move her deferred pension. Pi then submitted what they 
thought was all of the necessary paperwork to the third-party DB pension administrator on 
the same day, ahead of the transfer value expiring on 22 May 2022. 
Two weeks after submitting the transfer paperwork, Pi discovered that the DB administrator 
hadnt received the advice confirmation letter that they said had been posted to them on 16 
May 2022 with the other paperwork. The DB administrator claimed, therefore, that as all of 
their requirements hadnt been met, the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) that Ms J had 
been offered, would need to be recalculated. Following the recalculation, the CETV that Ms J 
was then offered to move her DB pension reduced from £543,895 to £425,359, giving Ms J 
£118,536 less than she originally thought that shed receive.
Despite the lower than anticipated transfer value, Ms J decided to still proceed with the 
transfer and several months later, her DB monies were moved to a new personal pension 
with Royal London. Unhappy with the reduced transfer value, Ms J initially complained to the 
DB administrator. In summary, she explained that she was unhappy that the new transfer 
value that they had offered was considerably less than the original. Ms J also explained that 
she didnt think it was reasonable that they had decided to write to her (via the postal 
system) rather than email her, two days prior to the CETV expiring, informing her that the 
advice confirmation letter was missing. Ms J said that as she didnt receive that letter until 
30 May 2022, she (or her adviser) were then unable to take any action to prevent the CETV 
expiring. 
After considering Ms Js complaint, the DB administrator responded, saying that they werent 
upholding her complaint. They also said, in summary, that they werent able to honour the 
original transfer value because Ms Js adviser hadnt submitted the mandatory advice 
confirmation letter to them. They also said, the transferring scheme has no obligation to 
chase for missing paperwork and thats because, they say, all of their requirements are set 
out in the transfer pack that both Ms J and her adviser had a copy of.
Shortly afterwards, Ms J decided to formally complain to Pi. In summary, she said that she 
was unhappy that Pi had failed to ensure that the DB administrator had received all of the 
necessary paperwork ahead of the transfer value expiring. Ms J went on to explain that she 
wanted Pi to recompense her for the difference between the original transfer value that she 
was offered to what she eventually ended up with.
After reviewing Ms Js complaint, Pi concluded that they were satisfied theyd done nothing 
wrong. They also said, in summary:
That they had submitted all of the necessary information that the DB administrator 
required ahead of the transfer value expiring. 
They explained that they didnt think the DB administrator had acted fairly because, Pi 
felt that when theyd discovered the advice confirmation letter was missing, the DB 
administrator could have telephoned Ms J or themselves to let them know, rather than 
sending a letter two days before the transfer value would expire.
Pi also said that Ms J was advised that the transfer value had expired and a new one 
had been requested. Had she wished, she couldve asked for the recalculation to be 
stopped and didnt have to go ahead with the reduced, lower CETV. 
Pi went onto explain that they didnt believe Ms J had actually lost £118,535 because 
she could have stayed in the DB scheme should she have wished.
Ms J was unhappy with Pis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, she said that were it not for the actions of Pi, she could have secured the original 
higher transfer value. She went on to explain that shed originally planned to repay her 
mortgage with the tax free cash from the transfer and undertake some home improvements. 
Because of Pis actions, Ms J explained that shed had to extend her mortgage and had to 
pay a higher interest rate on her borrowing.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Pi hadnt 
treated Ms J fairly and it was likely that theyd not posted the advice confirmation letter to 
the DB administrator, so they were responsible for Ms J missing the CETV deadline.
Pi, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they said that given the 
DB administrator chose to write to Ms J by mail rather than telephone or email, resulted in 
the transfer value expiring in their view. They went on to say that as Ms J only received the 
DB administrators letter (of 20 May 2022) on 30 May 2022, theyd not treated her fairly 
because they should have known that their letter would never have reached her before the 
transfer cut-off deadline. In addition, Pi stated that they felt prior to this service considering 
the complaint, the Pensions Ombudsman Service should be allowed to adjudicate on the 
complaint first.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Pi had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Pi then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on the case 
explaining that, whilst I was minded to agree with our Investigators view that the complaint 
should be upheld - I wanted to add my wider thinking and Ive altered the redress approach 
that Pi needs to take to put things right for Ms J.
What I said in my provisional decision:The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Ms J and Pi, in order to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im upholding Ms Js complaint and its 
largely for the same reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why below.
Before I do, I should address Pis contention that the Pensions Ombudsman Service should 
be allowed to adjudicate on this complaint first. Ms J is well within her rights to refer her 
complaint to this service and as I understand it, to date, she hasnt referred her concerns to 
the Pensions Ombudsman Service. Should she wish to refer her concerns to them at a 
later date, she is also entitled to do so, subject to their rules and conditions. However, I am 
satisfied that it is appropriate for me to consider Ms Js complaint in light of the concerns 
that she has raised, which are specifically levelled at the actions of Pi rather than the 
actions of other third parties, such as the DB administrator. 
I can understand Ms Js concern at seeing the second transfer value that she was offered 
decrease. In complex transfers such as that of a DB scheme, there are several parties that 
need to be involved in the process, but its important for me to say that this decision focuses 
solely on the actions of Pi, whom this complaint is against. 
Allied to this, I should also explain that I have not reviewed the appropriateness of Pis 
advice to transfer Ms Js DB scheme as that is not a concern that she has raised in her 
complaint to this service. Ms Js complaint focuses on the fact that the DB administrator 
didnt receive all of the paperwork they needed prior to the CETV expiring. When the new 
CETV was issued, it dropped in value. From what Ive seen, what doesnt appear to be in 
any doubt here is that Pi knew full well what documentation the DB administrator required, 
and that included the signed advice confirmation letter from them, prior to accepting the 
transfer request before 22 May 2022. Pi have stated that they posted the letter to the DB 
administrator, but the DB administrator have stated that they did not receive a copy of that 
letter.
The expectation for financial advice firms to submit an advice confirmation letter, which is 
sometimes called an article 53E letter or section 48 declaration (S48), has long been a 
requirement of pension trustees. That letter is designed to ensure that consumers have 
taken professional advice from a suitably qualified pension specialist, prior to transferring 
their DB benefits. In addition, the letter provides the requisite disclosures from the adviser 
that pension trustees must receive prior to releasing the transfer monies. 
Ive looked closely at the timeline of events in this case. As the events are not disputed by 
either party, I dont intend to repeat that timeline here and rather Ive focused on the key 
dates that I feel are particularly relevant. 
The DB administrator issued the transfer pack to Ms J on 22 February 2022  within that, it 
set out what documents needed to be submitted to them prior to the guaranteed transfer 
value expiring on 22 May 2022. And, as Ms J was paying Pi to provide the transfer advice, it 
was their responsibility to act in line with the Regulators Principles, keep her informed and 
act in line with what Ms J would reasonably expect  or tell her if thats not possible. The end 
result of this is that the business, reasonably, could have and should have done more to 
secure the transfer in this particular case. And, having looked at the paperwork that the DB 
administrator sent, it seems to me that their requirements were clearly set out and also went 
on to warn that, without all of the necessary forms, theyd be unable to proceed with the 
transfer without this information. That, in turn, would mean that the IFA would be running the 
risk of placing the consumer in a position where the CETV would expire, and consequently having to request a new transfer value from the trustees that could be lower than the 
original.
On 18 March 2022, Ms J contacted Pi, asking for advice on her retirement planning needs. 
Pi contacted her 14 days later (on 31 March 2022) and on 8 April 2022, they met with Ms J 
and completed a fact-find meeting with her. And, after undertaking their analysis of Ms Js 
circumstances, Pi reached a conclusion that a transfer was likely to be in her best interests. 
It seems that Pis adviser then sent Ms Js draft suitability report (which set out the reasons 
why the transfer was in her best interests) to their internal Pension Transfer Specialist (PTS) 
for sign off, on or around 19 April 2022. A number of iterations then followed until the PTS 
approved the final draft some 27 days later, on Sunday 15 May 2022, and the following day, 
it was forwarded to Ms J to review. That meant, it took Pi 39 days from the point that they 
completed the fact-find with Ms J to issue the finalised suitability report to her.
On 16 May 2022, Pi emailed the transfer request and discharge forms, a copy of Ms Js 
photo ID and a letter of authority to the DB administrator. In the same email, Pi explained 
that the S48 letter would follow shortly. Pi then say that they posted all of those documents 
along with a copy of the advice confirmation letter to the DB administrator on the same day. 
Pi have conceded that they didnt email a copy of the S48 letter to the DB administrator, and 
say it was inserted within the envelope, along with the rest of Ms Js transfer paperwork.
On Wednesday 18 May 2022, Pi emailed Ms J, explaining that they had submitted the 
paperwork to the DB administrator and that they would telephone their helpline the following 
week to get an understanding of when they would be able to finalise the transfer. However, 
given that the CETV was due to expire only four days later (on Sunday 22 May 2022), I think 
Pis approach here was problematic because, by the following week, the guaranteed date 
would have already passed so it wouldnt have allowed for any corrective action to be taken 
to preserve the original CETV. And I think its more likely than not that, had they called the 
DB administrator to check they had everything they needed, the mistake would have come 
to light.
On 20 May 2022, the DB administrator spotted the S48 letter was missing and wrote a letter 
to Ms J, which she says wasnt received until 30 May 2022, over a week after the CETV had 
expired. The next day, the DB administrator received Ms Js advice confirmation letter, but 
by this point, the CETV had expired. Pi say that they believe the S48 letter was sent but the 
DB administrator must have lost the letter. The DB administrator say that they received all of 
the other documents in the post from Pi but not the S48 letter. Pi havent sent any evidence 
to back-up their claims that the DB administrator must have lost the S48 letter. Having 
thought about things, on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not that Pi 
didnt send the S48 letter in the post with the rest of the transfer paperwork. I say that 
because their email of 16 May 2022 stated that the document would follow shortly and it 
seems that the DB administrator received all of the other documents in the post that Pi sent 
to them that day. And, in the absence of a supporting email from Pi to demonstrate that it 
was sent, Im inclined to conclude that Pi never sent it. I also think Pis email to this service 
backs up that contention because theyve stated:
I then checked Hightail* (didnt know I could at first) and couldnt see {Pis Paraplanner} had 
downloaded the S48 on 16/05 so I ask her again and she is now doubting herself as to 
whether she did that. We should have had a copy of the S48 sent in the post too from pi but I 
cant see that was ever received, if it was, we have posted that on to them.
*Hightail is Pis internal mail and messaging system.Had Pi emailed the S48 letter to the DB administrator, it wouldnt have mattered had it not 
been posted. And, according to Pis own processes, they ordinarily email all documents to 
the scheme administrator to avoid such incidents happening, although it appears that in this 
instance, they didnt.
Having carefully considered the timeline from the point at which Ms J contacted Pi, to when 
they met with her to complete the fact-find and then to finalise the paperwork, I dont believe 
that in light of the CETV expiration date, they acted as promptly as they should have done. 
I say that because from the point Ms J contacted Pi for help with her retirement planning 
needs, allowing for an hour for Ms J to watch some educational videos, Pi took 22 days to 
eventually meet with her on 8 April 2022. It then took 11 days for the first draft suitability 
report to be crafted and then it took their internal compliance team 27 days to sign the 
suitability report off. From when the transfer paperwork was submitted, it only gave the DB 
administrator four working days to spot any problems. And from what Ive seen of the various 
correspondence sent into this service, it seems that Pi was already of the view that the 
customer service levels provided by that specific DB administrator was lacking. So, by 
leaving the application to the final days of the CETV expiration deadline, I dont think that Pi 
acted with the due care, skill and diligence which the regulator expects.
From what Ive seen, the issues of getting Ms Js transfer completed seem to have occurred 
within the later stages of the consumer journey. And, whilst delays towards the end of the 
process are still a reasonable possibility of getting things done, they have more of an impact 
than delays earlier on in the process, when hold ups dont matter as much. I think its 
important to view the delays in that context because a two week delay earlier in the process 
(when Ms J was searching around for an adviser) isnt necessarily a critical factor in the 
scheme of things, whereas the same delay at the end of the process can be critical.
I believe that it was Pis responsibility to give sound, timely advice, and its also their 
responsibility to act with skill, care and diligence and to pay due regard to their customers 
interests (which is the FCAs PRIN 2 rule). So, Pi had to give advice in good time (which I 
dont think they did), and thereafter the consumer reasonably would have expected Pi to act 
promptly in order to secure the transfer. But Pi delayed things by sending the transfer 
paperwork later than they could have done and when they did so, there was an important 
document missing - and they didnt follow up their submission with the DB administrator. 
Also, by their own admission, the business knew the deadlines and the fact that the advice 
to transfer was predicated to a certain extent on the CETV, so Pi should have known that 
they couldnt delay things. Ms J agreed to pay Pi an initial advice fee of £15,000 to facilitate 
the transfer  as long as Pi submitted all of the documents that the scheme administrator 
asked of it and prior to 22 May 2022, when the CETV offered to Ms J was guaranteed. And 
given that Pi were acting as Ms Js agent, they had a duty of care to ensure that all of the 
relevant documents were submitted on time and to the standard set out.
Whilst Pi cant be held liable for the delays of others, they were responsible for the consumer 
journey and, as Ive already explained, Im of the view that the reduced CETV is a direct 
consequence of Pis failure to submit an advice confirmation letter to the DB administrator.
The list below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of Pis advice to Ms J, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pis actions 
here:
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Summary
So, it seems clear to me that were it not for the actions of Pi, Ms J would have secured the 
original, higher CETV value. And thats because, as Ive already set out, Pi failed to submit 
the advice confirmation letter with the original transfer application, which they ought 
reasonably to have known was a requirement of the scheme trustees. It seems that there 
were delays in Pi issuing their suitability letter and they also could have submitted the 
transfer documents to the DB administrator sooner than they did, and had they done, the 
mistake wouldve likely been spotted sooner than it was. Finally, they then failed to obtain 
definitive confirmation from the DB administrator that all of the required documents had been 
submitted. 
With all of this in mind, I think that Pi fell short of what is expected and its failures have 
resulted in Ms J missing her CETV expiry date. Im therefore upholding Ms Js complaint and 
require Pi to put things right for her in the manner that Ive set out below.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, Ms J responded, stating that she had nothing further 
to add.
Pi responded saying that they didnt agree with the provisional decision. They went on to 
say, in summary, that:
Whilst they could evidence that the S48 letter was emailed to their adviser, they 
conceded their system didnt evidence that he had downloaded it. They did however say 
that they were able to evidence that a copy of the S48 letter was posted from their head 
office to the advisers office on 16 May 2022. Pi shared an extract of their postal log as 
evidence that they had posted it to their adviser on 16 May 2022, and went on to say that 
would have then given adequate time for that original letter to then be posted by the 
adviser to the DB administrator before the CETV expired.
Pi said that they had found further evidence which they considered highly relevant to the 
case  they shared an email with this service from the receiving scheme (Royal London) 
to their adviser. In the screen shot of the email provided, it shows Royal Londons case 
history of the transfer and that they chased the DB administrator on 23 May 2022. Royal 
Londons notes of that telephone call state: called the scheme and spoke to (person X) 
who confirmed all the forms have been received and there is a letter being drafted to 
send to us but he couldnt tell me what was in it at this moment  said I would call next 
week by which time we would have had the letter. There is then a further entry dated 6 
June 2022 that states: spoke to (person Y) at the scheme  was waiting for conf of 
advice form off IFA but he located it  with admin team now for processing.
Pi provided copies of the two recorded calls that Royal London had held with the DB 
administrator on 23 May 2022 and 6 June 2022.
Pi went on to say that on 8 June 2022, the DB administrator contradicted their earlier 
communication to Royal London (on 6 June 2022), when they issued a letter to say the 
S48 hadnt been received and the CETV would need to be recalculated.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked very closely at all of the information that Pi has submitted in support of their claim 
that they shouldnt be held accountable for the decrease in Ms Js CETV. However, having 
carefully considered their submissions, I have reached the same conclusion as my 
provisional decision, and Ill explain why below.
Pi says that a copy of the S48 letter was posted from their head office to the advisers office 
on 16 May 2022, and they have shared an extract of their postal log as evidence that they 
had sent it to him on that date. They have also said that would then have given the adviser 
adequate time for that original letter to then be posted to the DB administrator before the 
CETV expired. However, whilst Ive no reason to doubt Pi sent a copy of the S48 letter to 
their adviser on 16 May 2022, Im not persuaded that he then forwarded a copy of that letter 
to the DB administrator. I say that because on 16 May 2022, Pi emailed the transfer request 
and discharge forms, a copy of Ms Js photo ID and a letter of authority to the DB 
administrator. In the same email, Pi explained that the S48 letter would follow shortly. 
So, that meant if Pi posted a copy of the S48 letter to their adviser on 16 May 2022, it 
couldnt have been enclosed in the paperwork that was then sent to the DB administrator on 
the afternoon of 16 May 2022 (sent by Special Delivery at 14:54) meaning that he wouldve 
had to have sent that letter under separate cover at a later date. And, Ive not been provided 
with any evidence (such as Royal Mail track and trace or emails) that demonstrate Pis 
adviser subsequently shared the S48 with the DB administrator prior to the CETV expiring. 
In any event, had the adviser received the S48 letter from Pi in the post, the earliest he 
would have received it would have been Tuesday 17 May 2022, meaning he only had a few 
working days left that week to get it to the DB administrator ahead of the CETV expiring at 
the end of the week. So, had he posted it, I think its more likely than not that he wouldve 
done so using Royal Mails tracking service to guarantee the DB administrator would receive 
it before the deadline.
Pi have explained that having obtained copies of the recorded calls between Royal London, 
who are the receiving scheme for Ms Js DB transfer, and the DB administrator, it throws 
new light on the chain of the events, specifically when the DB administrator informed Ms J 
and Royal London of the missing S48 letter. Ive listened to both the call recordings that Pi 
have submitted to this service which, they say, proves the scheme administrator gave out 
conflicting information. Ive transcribed the relevant section of the first call of 23 May 2022:
Royal London: We sent all the forms through on 17th by Special Delivery, I just wanted to 
confirm youve got everything you need and were just waiting for you to do your disinvesting 
and all that.
DB administrator: I see were currently drafting up a letter there, as it is currently being 
drafted up, I dont see what theyre sending out but the administration team will issue that out 
soon just confirming whether weve got everything or if we need anything else there but it 
does look like weve received the forms that you sent its just us processing them just now.
Royal London: Shall I move it on for a couple of weeks for an update?
DB administrator: Id say wed be sending that out this week, the draft has just gone up for 
that so the administration team should be amending that soon and getting that sent out and that will confirm whether we have everything we need or if we need anything else. Its just 
got a marker saying were sending something out in response.
Despite what Pi says, I dont believe that the DB administrator did say that they had 
everything that they needed for the transfer on 23 May 2022 call. The DB administrator said 
that the administration team would issue their letter, confirming whether they had everything 
or if anything else was required after theyd had the opportunity to review the file. The 
operator on that day only confirmed that theyd received Pis paperwork and they didnt 
confirm that paperwork was complete or met their standard necessary to enable to the CETV 
to be released.
In the call of 6 June 2022, after asking for an update on the progress of the transfer, the 
scheme administrator stated:
DB administrator: We sent out a letter to you guys on 20 May, saying there was some 
outstanding information we required a copy of written confirmation provided to the member 
that confirms advice had been provided on headed paper and signed by the adviser and this 
must be received within three months of the date it was issued that the transfer value 
statement, written confirmation from a senior manager employed at the firm confirming that 
the financial adviser who provided the advice works for them and if the adviser is an 
appointed representative.
Royal London: Whos all this gone to sorry?
DB administrator: You guys, Royal London.
Royal London: When as it sent?
DB administrator: 20th May.
Royal London: Is this the mysterious letter that (person x) said was being drafted to me on 
the 23rd but he couldnt tell me what was in it? He said a letter was being drafted but he 
couldnt tell me what was in it, and Ive had no letter. Im slightly disturbed because its now 
6th June and Ive had nothing.
DB administrator: There doesnt seem to be anything for the 23rd, the most recent event is 
the 28th. Weve got an email here from the financial adviser, Im just checking if that is the 
document that was requested and if it is, then it should be okay.  Yeh, it looks like we got 
the IFA advice letter and that was sent from them three days ago. Theres another email 
here, Im just trying to have a little look through. So, it looks like we have everything that we 
need, that was the only document that was outstanding and they look like theyre on the file 
now. My assumption is the administration team once theyve had a little read through this 
theyll be in contact just to let you guys know when the payment will be made.
Royal London: So I havent had a letter sent to me?
DB administrator: There was one sent to you, you may not have received it just yet, we 
have an email from the financial adviser with a photo of the letter that we sent out to you 
guys, so it may have just been forwarded on to them because it technically does concern 
them more than it does you. Obviously, stuff that we require from them, they look like theyve 
then re-sent the information that we require which is the IFA advice letter and confirmation of 
this from a senior at the firm just confirming that the adviser works for them. It looks like we 
have the documents here back from the financial adviser. I would assume its just a waiting 
game now for the administration team to get in contact with you, to let you know when the 
payment will be made.I think the first thing to say about both calls (on 23 May 2022 and 6 June 2022) are that they 
were undertaken after the CETV had already expired on 22 May 2022. So, arguably, it didnt 
really matter what the scheme administrator said on 23 May 2022, because at that point, it 
was too late for either the consumer, the IFA or the receiving scheme to do anything about 
the CETV expiring. Pi have explained that on 6 June 2022, the scheme administrator stated: 
They look like theyve the re-sent the information that we require. This comment, they say, 
suggests that theyd already had a copy of the S48 letter  however, Im not persuaded it 
does. I think the term re-sent is, more likely than not, a figure of speech because had the 
scheme administrator already had the S48 letter and for example were unable to read the 
letter, or if there was an issue with it, they wouldve set out what the problem was with it. 
Rather, in this instance, Royal London were speaking to an operator who, in the brief space 
of only five to eight minutes, was quickly glancing though a file and wouldnt have had a full 
set of facts before him, so I dont think Pi can place any weight on that one word when 
considering the wider facts and circumstances of the case.
I do accept there does appear to be some inconsistency between the two calls around when 
the DB administrators letter (dated 20 May 2022) highlighting the missing S48 was sent to 
Ms J. It seems to me from the call on 23 May 2022, that it hadnt been sent to Ms J at that 
point as it was still sat with the schemes administration team waiting for editing. When Royal 
London called back on 6 June 2022, I think its more likely than not that the call handler 
concluded the letter had been sent to Ms J on 20 May 2022, as thats when the letter is 
dated. Its clear that it had been sent at that point (6 June 2022), because the DB 
administrator then explained to Royal London that the S48 letter had been submitted to them 
on 28 May 2022 (which is the same day that Ms J says she received the scheme 
administrators letter). 
Summary
Ive thought carefully about what Pi have said about the provisional decision, but Im not 
persuaded that fault for Ms J missing the CETV deadline lies elsewhere. As Ive already 
explained, my decision is about the actions of Pi rather than any other third parties  I dont 
think Pi managed the customer advice journey particularly well, from the point Ms J 
contacted Pi for help with her retirement planning needs, they took 22 days to meet with her 
on 8 April 2022. It then took 11 days for the first draft suitability report to be crafted and then 
it took their internal compliance team 27 days to sign the suitability report off. 
From when the transfer paperwork was submitted, it only gave the DB administrator four 
working days to spot any problems. And, whilst it seems that the DB administrators letter 
highlighting the missing S48 was only issued after the CETV had expired, given that Pi was 
already of the view that the customer service levels provided by that specific DB 
administrator was lacking, they then failed to follow-up with the scheme administrator after 
submitting the paperwork to satisfy themselves that they were in receipt of all of the 
necessary paperwork. I think its more likely than not that, had they submitted the transfer 
paperwork earlier and followed up with the scheme administrator whether all of the 
mandatory paperwork had been received, the error would most likely have come to light. As 
an authorised pension transfer specialist, Pi knew what was required of them and 
understood the CETV couldnt be processed without the S48. So, by leaving the application 
to the final days of the CETV expiration deadline, I dont think that Pi acted with the due 
care, skill and diligence which the regulator expects and as such, Im upholding Ms Js 
complaint and require Pi to put things right for her in the manner that Ive set out below.Putting things right
My decision is that Pi should put Ms J back into the position that she would have been in had 
it not been for their mistake. That means they must undertake a loss calculation to determine 
the impact that the reduced CETV has had on her Royal London pension, along with any 
investment growth that she would have benefited from.
Pi needs to compare the original CETV that offered a transfer amount of £543,895 (that was 
guaranteed until 22 May 2022) plus the investment returns that Ms J would have made, had 
the monies been invested when they should have been (using Royal Londons GPS5 fund 
as the benchmark), with the position that Ms J actually found herself in, and then they should 
pay the difference as compensation. 
But, Ms J has told us that she planned to take £76,000 of that fund in tax-free cash and use 
those monies to repay her outstanding mortgage debt. So, Pi needs to also take account of 
the additional mortgage interest that Ms J paid because she was unable to repay her 
borrowing when she intended to do so.
Given the complexity of the case, I acknowledge that what Ive set out below wouldnt fully 
replicate what would have happened had the mistake not occurred, but Im satisfied it will do 
so as near as is reasonably possible without making the process too onerous. Given were a 
quick and informal dispute resolution service, I think what Ive set out is the fairest and 
simplest approach to drawing a line under the complaint. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms J as close as is possible 
to the position that she would probably now be in, had the transfer been undertaken when it 
should have. It is not possible to say precisely what date the transfer would have taken place 
had it not been for Pis mistake, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is most likely, 
and therefore is fair and reasonable given Ms Js circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
Pi should compare the difference between the CETV that Ms J was originally offered (with 
the expiry date of 22 May 2022), to what was eventually transferred.
Ive looked closely at the DB administrators transfer guidance  it states that they ordinarily 
take two weeks to undertake their administration process and then 80% of transfers are 
completed three weeks after that, and a further week is added for the payment to be 
undertaken. So, had Pi submitted all of the required documentation when they should have, 
its reasonable to conclude that, based on the DB administrators guidance, the funds would 
have been transferred on 1 July 2022 at the latest, and that it would have been the original 
CETV that got transferred. Therefore, Pi needs to:
Compare the performance of Ms J's Royal London pension with the notional value if 
those monies had transferred when they should have. If the actual value is greater than 
the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Pi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Ms J's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Ms J's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount directly to her. But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income  therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure that the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Ms J wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms J's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Ms J is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Ms J would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms J how much has been taken off. Pi should give Ms J a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Royal 
London 
Pension 
Portfolio 
PlanOpen and 
liquidGoverned 
Portfolio 51 July 2022 Date of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year if 
Pi have 
not paid 
any 
redress 
due within 
30 days of 
the 
consumer 
accepting 
the final 
decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
This is the value of Ms J's investment had it been invested at the correct time until the end 
date. Pi should calculate this value.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point that it was actually paid, so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number 
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all of those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end.
This includes taking account of the tax-free cash withdrawal that Ms J made to repay her 
mortgage:Mortgage interest
In undertaking their loss calculation, Pi should assume that Ms J would have taken the 
£76,000 tax-free cash to repay her mortgage. Pi should establish the amount of mortgage 
interest Ms J paid for the period from 5 July 2022* to 2 February 2023** and refund those 
monies to her. To do so, they should use the following calculation:
a. £76,000 tax free cash x (mortgage interest rate) / 365 x (days in the month)
* 5 July 2022 is the date that I think is most likely Ms J would have received the original tax-
free cash from her Royal London pension (based on the fact that when she later transferred 
her DB scheme, it only took two days for those monies to be released to her). This is the 
assumed date at which she would have then passed those monies to her mortgage lender to 
repay the borrowing.
** 2 February 2023 is the date that Ms J actually received the tax-free cash (from the second 
CETV), allowing her to repay her mortgage.
As Ive already explained, as were working to a different timeline now, I recognise that the 
above approach wouldnt fully replicate what wouldve happened had the mistake not 
occurred, but Im broadly satisfied it closely matches as far as is reasonably possible, whats 
most likely to have happened. Therefore, Pi should calculate what interest Ms J 
unnecessarily paid on her mortgage during that period because she was unable to access 
her tax-free cash when she wished to do so.
Ms J should promptly provide a mortgage statement to Pi covering the period set out above, 
to allow them to undertake the calculation.
Refund of any additional charges
In upholding Ms Js complaint, I also need to take account of any additional costs that she 
incurred as a consequence of Pis actions. Therefore, if the DB administrator charged Ms J 
for the new CETV that they issued in August 2022, Pi should also refund that charge to her. 
Pi should also add 8% simple interest per annum from the point that she paid any charge to 
the date of settlement.
Trouble and upset
Ms J has told this service that shes found the whole transfer process incredibly stressful, 
placing a drain on her household finances. She went on to explain that she was planning to 
use the saving from her monthly mortgage payment to improve her home energy efficiency. 
As were an evidence-based service, I cant make an award for that, as I would be unable to 
determine how much Ms J could have reduced her energy bills by  I can, however, make 
an award for the trouble that Pi have caused. Therefore, Pi should also pay Ms J £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience that theyve caused by not submitting her transfer application 
in a timely manner.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because, had Pi submitted the advice 
confirmation letter when they should have, Ms J would have benefited from the higher 
transfer amount and allowed her to promptly repay her mortgage, therefore, this will place 
her as closely back into the same position that she wouldve been in, had it not been for 
Pis delays.My final decision
I am upholding Ms Js complaint and as such, I require Pi Financial Ltd to put things right for 
her in the manner that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman