DRN-1662745
The complaint
Mr C complains about a guarantor loan provided to him by UK Credit Limited (UKC) which 
he says was unaffordable.
What happened
UKC provided Mr C with a loan of £10,000 on 30 October 2017 which was secured by a 
guarantor. The loan was to be repaid over five years with monthly repayments of £348.84 
and the total amount to be repaid was £20,930.40. The loan hasnt been repaid. In its 
September 2020 statement, UKC said there was a balance of £8,014.45 outstanding. 
Mr C says that UKC should have seen from his credit report that he was unemployed and 
had zero income. He said that UKC didnt ask him for enough information about his 
expenses and proof of his income. 
UKC told this service that Mr C didnt tell it in his complaint that he was unemployed and had 
zero income when he applied for the loan. The lender said that Mr C had supplied it with a 
payslip to evidence his income, confirmed his employers details and had a conversation 
around his job, length of service, and the monthly income he received. UKC also said that it 
had established in its assessment that Mr C had previously relied on short term credit in the 
past for funding his training. Since then he had demonstrated that he had rehabilitated his 
credit, with no payday/short term credit taken out in the previous six months. During its 
assessment, it was able to evidence that Mr Cs current commitments were being met 
without the need to borrow more and that the frequency of Mr C applying for credit had 
reduced. Based upon the information available to it, the lender was satisfied that it had an 
understanding of Mr Cs circumstances, and that the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.
UKC disagreed. It said that the adjudication didnt make any reference to a key
consideration which was that Mr C had applied for the loan with the knowledge that he was 
no longer in employment. It only became aware of this through Mr Cs own admission in his 
complaint to this service and from an open website forum. At the time of his loan application 
Mr C had provided it with his payslip dated 23 September 2017 and had told it in a phone 
conversation on 30 October 2017 that he was employed, had provided details of his 
employer and said that he saw no change in his circumstances.
The adjudicator responded to say that if proportionate checks had been carried out, then 
UKC would have seen that the loan wasnt sustainable. Had UKC required further evidence 
such as bank statements, UKC would have seen that Mr C was experiencing financial 
difficulties. The adjudicator didnt think that Mr C would have been able to make the loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner.
UKC then referred to a decision of this service in which the ombudsman rejected a complaint 
where the consumer had failed to disclose his existing loans to the lender.   
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When UKC lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
The relevant rules said that a lender must undertake a reasonable assessment of 
creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, 
as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments. So even in this 
case, where Mr C had provided security for his loan in the form of a guarantee and indemnity 
agreement, this didnt absolve UKC of its obligation to assess whether in the first instance  
Mr C could meet his repayments without undue difficulty over the term of the loan. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess
creditworthiness. However, the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over 
the full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts 
and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Whilst it is down to the lender to 
decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out, these should be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
So, UKCs assessment needed to be flexible  what was reasonable for one borrower might 
not be so for another, or what might be reasonable for a borrower for one loan application 
might not be so for the same borrower for a different loan. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, Ive considered the 
following questions:
- Did UKC complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did UKC make a fair lending decision?
UKC gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income and asked for his payslip. Mr C provided a payslip dated 23 September 2017 which showed his net pay as £1,328.63. UKC also asked Mr C about his normal 
expenditure. This totalled £666.66 including credit card repayments of £230. Mr C said that 
he lived with his parents and they paid normal household expenses. 
UKC also checked Mr Cs credit file. It was aware from this that Mr C had four credit cards 
with total balances over £12,000. Two of his card balances exceeded the credit limits on 
those cards and the other two were very near their respective credit limits. I think this shows 
that Mr Cs finances were showing signs of possible strain which should have caused UKC 
some concerns.
There was also one loan shown on the checks on which Mr C was paying monthly payments 
of £119. 
I also note that UKC discussed the credit commitments it had seen on its checks with Mr C. 
UKC also based its assessment on the expenditure information Mr C had provided to it. I 
dont think it was reasonable for UKC to rely on expenditure information from Mr C without 
verifying it given the cost of the credit, that the loan repayments would take up over 26% of 
Mr Cs declared monthly income, that he needed to be able to meet this level of repayment 
for five years, and that his finances were showing signs of possible strain. UKC didnt say 
that it took steps to do this. 
So, I dont think the checks UKC carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. It needed to do more to get a thorough understanding of Mr Cs financial 
position to reasonably assess the risk to Mr C of not managing to meet his repayments 
sustainably. It could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr C 
or by asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his expenses.
Mr C has provided his bank statements from around the time he applied for the loan. Im not 
suggesting here that this is the check that UKC should have done. But I think looking at his 
bank statements gives me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. 
Ive reviewed Mr Cs bank statements to see what I considered to be proportionate checks 
would have shown. I note from Mr Cs bank statements in the month before the loan that    
Mr Cs account was overdrawn at the beginning and end of the month and he was paying 
unplanned overdraft fees. There were also seven returned direct debit payments. Mr C had 
taken out a payday loan for £700 two weeks prior to UKCs loan. There were repayments to 
four credit cards, a long term loan and another payday loan. Mr Cs other expenses were 
higher than hed disclosed to UKC. Mr C has told us that he was gambling at the time, but I 
can see only limited evidence of those transactions on his bank statements. 
Other available information on Mr Cs own credit report shows that Mr C had a payday loan 
account defaulted two weeks prior to UKCs loan. Altogether he had three outstanding 
payday loans at the time of applying for UKCs loan. 
I note that the purpose of the loan was to pay off some of Mr Cs credit card and payday loan 
debt. But I can see that the new loan wouldnt have covered all of Mr Cs outstanding debt. 
UKC was aware of this and had taken it into account in its assessment. But further checks 
would likely have shown that Mr C had other debts it didnt know about as Ive set out above. 
It would also have seen that Mr C was paying bank charges for an unplanned overdraft and 
had returned direct debit payments. 
I dont think that UKC treated Mr C fairly when it agreed to lend to him as it was likely that 
agreeing more credit for him would simply add to his debt levels. Furthermore, I think 
proportionate checks would have shown there was a risk that Mr C wouldnt be able to meet 
his repayments on UKCs loan sustainably over the lifetime of the loan, given that hed need to set aside about a quarter of his monthly income for this loan and still continue to repay 
some existing debts.
I note that UKC was concerned that Mr C had provided it with false information about his 
employment and had withheld information about his gambling. UKC has also referred to 
another decision of this service. However, as UKC knows, we assess each case on its own 
merits and it isnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints as the circumstances 
may be very different. In this case if UKC had carried out the independent view of Mr Cs 
circumstances that I think was needed for this loan, it was likely to have seen that the loan 
wasnt sustainable.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of 
£10,000 he borrowed for his loan. To put things right for Mr C, UKC should: 
1. Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Cs account from when it was opened;
2. Consider all payments made by Mr C as payments towards the capital amount.
3. If Mr C has made payments above the capital amount, then these should be refunded to 
him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
4. If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, then 
UKC needs to treat Mr C sympathetically and fairly, which might include coming to a 
new arrangement about how best to repay this; and 
5. Remove any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file in relation to this loan when it has 
been settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give    
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mr Cs complaint for the reasons set out above and 
require UK Credit Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman