DRN-4227181
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard), 
irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2015 Miss H entered into an agreement with Barclaycard to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account. She was given an opening credit limit of £3,000. There then 
followed three credit limit increases: in May 2016 to £6,000, in March 2017 to £10,000 and 
then in July 2018 to £12,550. Ive also seen there was a slight decrease in September 2017.
Miss H says that Barclaycard didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
her credit card account and went on to grant her credit limit increases. 
Barclaycard didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Miss Hs financial circumstances before granting her the card account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that Barclaycard didnt 
act unfairly by giving Miss H the opening credit limit and subsequent credit limit increases. 
As Miss H didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Account opening
Before opening the account, Ive seen that Barclaycard relied on the information Miss H set 
out in her application. Miss H said she was earning a gross annual income of around 
£36,500. Barclaycard also carried out a credit check. Ive also seen that at the time Miss H 
was living at home so didnt have a mortgage, although she was likely contributing towards 
her housing costs. She owed around £300 on a credit card. She was also operating two 
catalogue accounts and was repaying a £12,000 personal loan shed recently taken out. 
Miss H appeared generally to be managing her finances well, at least to the extent that there 
were no defaults or other adverse markings on her credit file. 
I think that, given the level of opening credit Barclaycard was offering Miss H, it would have 
been proportionate for it to have found out more about her committed expenditure, such as 
her regular living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Barclaycard would have found out if it 
had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information contained in Miss Hs bank statements as to what would most 
likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. Having 
done so, I broadly agree with our adjudicator that the statements show Miss H was receiving 
a more or less steady monthly income at this time of around £2,000. Miss H has told us she 
was an independent contractor and I do realise that means her income wasnt necessarily 
guaranteed, but it was nevertheless at a relatively consistent level each month. Ive also kept 
in mind that Miss H was making occasional use of but not exceeding her bank account 
overdraft. Taking into account her daily spending and regular bills, including credit 
repayments, Miss H was having to find around £1,100 each month, leaving her with enough 
disposable income to be able to afford the card repayments. That means its likely that, had 
Barclaycard completed proportionate checks, It would have discovered this too. It therefore 
didnt act unfairly by granting the opening credit limit. 
Credit limit increases 
I think for each of the credit limit increases it would also have been proportionate for 
Barclaycard to have verified Miss Hs financial circumstances in some way. In the absence 
of anything else, Ive relied on the bank statements that Miss H kindly obtained for the lead 
up to each lending decision. I think for each of the increases this gives a good indication of 
what Barclaycard would likely have discovered if it had tried to verify Miss Hs expenditure in 
some way. 
At the time of the first credit limit increase, Miss Hs income had increased but so had her 
household costs as she was paying around £700 each month towards housing expenses. 
Her credit commitments had also gone up. So, whilst Miss H was now having to find around 
£2,200 each month she would still have at least £500 in disposable income. 
By the time of the second and third credit limit increases, in March 2017 and July 2018, Ive 
seen that Miss H was earning around the same level of income for the first increase but it 
had increased marginally by the time of the next increase. I also note there had been a 
reduction in what she was spending on daily essentials, such as food, at the time of the 
July 2018 increase. On the other hand the amount of credit she owed had increased by 
around £400. Overall, the information shows that Miss H would have been left with around 
£900-£1,000 each month in disposable income. So its likely the card repayments would be 
affordable.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think its likely that had Barclaycard completed 
proportionate checks at the point of each credit limit increase, it would have discovered the 
same financial circumstances. It follows that I therefore dont think it acted unfairly by 
increasing Miss Hs credit limit on each occasion.  
Did Barclaycard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen that Miss H is unhappy with the way Barclaycard responded after she was in 
contact with them in April 2022. She has told us about her difficult personal situation which 
our adjudicator has described in some detail in his initial finding. Ive reviewed all the 
evidence and information Barclaycard has provided about what it did to help her. I am very 
sorry to learn of the difficult circumstances Miss H was having to deal with on a daily basis. I 
also recognise the practical difficulties this raised in relation to Miss Hs ability to contact 
Barclaycard. But Ive also kept in mind that when Barclays was taking steps to assist her it 
needed to follow its own security process. Ive also seen that Miss H didnt send in some further information it asked for as well as details of her income and expenditure. This may 
well have enabled Barclaycard to help her further. Although I realise it was far from easy for 
her to deal with Barclaycard because of her personal situation, from what Ive seen Im not 
able to make a finding that Barclaycard acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Finally, given that I assume Miss Hs financial difficulties with her card are likely to be 
continuing, I would urge Barclaycard to apply all appropriate forbearance and assistance to 
Miss H to help her meet her repayments and if possible to agree an affordable repayment 
plan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman