DRN-3883465
The complaint
Mrs S has complained Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (SDFC) held 
her liable for a catalogue account she says she didnt take out. 
What happened
SDFC says it approved an application to open a catalogue account in July 2021 and sent 
goods paid for using the account to its customer. The catalogue account had a limit of £750, 
and a single purchase was made using it. 
Mrs S says she received correspondence about the account in September 2021, and she 
was surprised because she tells us she didnt take it out. She noticed SDFC had spelt her 
surname slightly wrong. She says no one in her household placed the order, and that shed 
not had any other accounts opened fraudulently in her name. She asked a representative to 
speak to SDFC to find out what happened, but he explains SDFC didnt want to speak to him 
because certain verifications werent passed. Mrs S says she doesnt recognise the SDFC 
account, and she hadnt had any invoices or bills relating to the purchase that was made on 
it for around £30. 
Mrs S wrote to SDFC a few times over the next few months. But as she wasnt getting 
anywhere, she contacted the Financial Ombudsman in January 2022. Mrs S says she was 
shocked and stressed to receive the demand for payment. She requested SDFC clear the 
debt and remove her details. She was also unhappy her letters werent being responded to. 
Mrs S said the negative information (from SDFC) on her credit file impacted a mortgage 
application. 
SDFC continued to send letters about the arrears and in May 2022 it sold the debt to a debt 
company. It sent a final response letter for Mrs Ss complaint and highlighted it sent the 
goods addressed to Mrs S at her address. It also said it acted fairly by selling the debt to a 
debt company after the arrears werent paid. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She noted Mrs S passed SDFCs application 
checks. But she also noted the account was placed on hold the day it was opened and 
SDFC tried to speak to the account holder to verify it was genuine. SDFC spoke to a woman 
it thought was Mrs S who mentioned placing the order. But the person didnt confirm their 
personal details or pass a security check. They asked the advisor to wait a moment but 
didnt return to the call. Our investigator said the quality of the recording was poor so she 
couldnt conclusively say whether or not it was Mrs S on the phone. Our investigator said 
there was a note on the account to release the order if the account holder called back. But it 
looks like the order was released without any further contact. 
Mrs S says she never spoke to SDFC. And she said the number SDFC dialled isnt hers. Our 
investigator noticed SDFC could only provide a screenshot that showed the goods were 
delivered to Mrs Ss address. It couldnt supply any further proof of delivery. Overall, our 
investigator didnt think SDFC had done enough to show Mrs S opened the account, or that 
shed given someone else authority to open it on her behalf. So she thought SDFC should 
recall the debt, clear the balance and remove information about it from Mrs Ss credit file. 
Our investigator also thought about how SDFC had handled things generally. She noted that 
the letters Mrs S sent about the debt didnt include her name, so SDFC couldnt verify who 
sent them. She said it was only able to look into things when it had enough details to confirm 
who Mrs S and her representative were. She also thought there was insufficient evidence 
the mortgage application was declined solely as a result of the information SDFC had 
recorded in relation to the debt. So she didnt think SDFC needed to pay compensation. 
SDFC responded to say the account flagged for a call after the first order had already been 
processed. And that no subsequent orders had been placed. It said it had no response from 
the actual account holder, despite the numerous letters it had sent. It said the only contact it 
had was from an unauthorised third party. That being said, as it had never been able to 
verify the account holder, it agreed to recall the debt, clear it, and remove any information 
about it from Mrs Ss credit file. 
Mrs S responded and questioned what checks SDFC carried out to open an account with a 
£750 limit. She reiterated SDFC had never spoken to her or responded to her letters. She 
said the account should have been put on hold before the order was released. She said 
shed never had previous issues before when applying for mortgages. Mrs S wanted to be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience, but she also wanted to make sure 
something is put in place to protect other customers from having to go through the same 
thing. 
Our investigator responded to say its not the Financial Ombudsmans role to consider the 
overall management of SDFC  she was looking at Mrs Ss individual complaint. She said 
Mrs Ss complaint about the lending decision was a new issue and not something that had 
already been considered by SDFC. So it would need an opportunity to respond to this 
complaint before the Financial Ombudsman could consider it. But she reiterated SDFC didnt 
receive contact from Mrs S herself and so it wasnt unreasonable it didnt respond.
Mrs S wasnt happy with the outcome. She said she wanted the complaint referred to an 
ombudsman, in summary, in order to:
Protect other customers in similar situations.
Enforce a proper code of practice within firms. 
Make sure SDFC places orders on hold when it cant get through to the prospective 
customer. 
Punish SDFC by ordering it to pay compensation/damages where the customer has 
been unfairly treated. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SDFC sought payment from Mrs S under a regulated catalogue account. Our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
Im sorry to hear the matter has caused Mrs S distress and inconvenience. And I want to 
thank her and her representative for taking the time to bring her complaint to our service. 
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mrs S 
and SDFC that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
I understand Mrs S wants the Financial Ombudsman to punish SDFC, but thats not 
something Im able to do. And while I appreciate her concerns for other customers and her 
request for me to enforce a proper code of practice, its my role to look into the specific 
circumstances of Mrs Ss dispute and decide quickly and with minimum formality whether 
SDFC needs to do something to put things right. 
Ive first thought about SDFCs decision to open the account for the applicant. I can see 
theres a slight discrepancy in the spelling of the name used in the application and Mrs Ss 
name. But it looks like the applicant knew enough of Mrs Ss details to pass the checks, such 
as her date of birth. SDFC said it carried out checks with the credit reference agencies and 
that it thought based on the weight of evidence that the applicant was genuine. While Mrs S 
says some of the contact details are incorrect, she does live at the address that was 
provided. And the goods that were purchased on the day the account was opened were sent 
to that address. SDFC tell us the contact details Mrs S says were not hers didnt have any 
links to suspicious activity. So I can see why SDFC thought it was fair to open the account. 
Theres not a clear indicator of fraudulent activity having taken place. 
However, I agree with our investigator that I think more could have been done off the back of 
the call SDFCs fraud team made to who it thought was its customer on the day the account 
was opened. The person it spoke to knew about the goods that were ordered but didnt stay 
on the line to pass the security checks. Like our investigator pointed out, I cant conclusively 
say it was or wasnt Mrs S on the call. But given the concerns that had been raised, it would 
have been helpful had SDFC done something to confirm, like called back. I dont know 
whether the goods had already been dispatched by that point, but if they hadnt it wouldve 
also been helpful had SDFC put a stop on things. SDFC did, however, put a stop to further 
goods being ordered under the account. 
As theres some doubt here, and it looks like SDFC may not have followed up on its own 
fraud checks, I agree with our investigator that recalling the account, clearing the debt and 
removing information on the credit file broadly seems like a fair way to put things right in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint. SDFC has agreed with the resolution too. 
Does SDFC need to do anything else to put things right?
Ive explained above the sort of things that dont fall within the scope of the Financial 
Ombudsman. But Ive also thought about how SDFC acted in general as Mrs S has said 
shes unhappy with the way it dealt with things. I can see shes unhappy her representative 
couldnt resolve things over the phone. And shes also unhappy letters werent responded to. 
Turning first to the phone call attempt her representative made, it looks like SDFC wouldnt 
speak to him because he couldnt pass security or pass the phone to Mrs S. I can 
understand this must have been frustrating, but I dont think its unreasonable that SDFC 
wanted to take steps to make sure it was speaking to the right person. 
Similarly, I can see SDFC received letters about the account. The letters Ive seen were sent 
by the occupiers of Mrs Ss address. As SDFC didnt know the letters were sent from Mrs S 
it thought its customer had left the address without notifying it. So I can see how the 
confusion has occurred here. It looks like SDFC were waiting for a call from who it thought 
was its customer. But I do understand why Mrs S thinks SDFC could have done more to look 
into things given she sent a few letters over a few months, and it wasnt receiving any 
payment towards the account.  Mrs S has also supplied a copy of a letter saying a mortgage application was declined due to 
adverse credit on either her or her husbands credit file. The lender referred to in the letter is 
a specialist lender. Like our investigator pointed out, without sufficient evidence showing her 
mortgage application was declined because of something that SDFC did wrong; that the loss 
was reasonably foreseeable and flowing from the mistake; and that Mrs S has tried to 
mitigate the situation, Im not going to direct it to do something else to put things right. I 
appreciate thats a lot of evidence, but I have to be mindful that mortgages can be declined 
for a significant number of reasons.  
All things considered, I think SDFC is acting fairly by agreeing to bring back the debt, clear 
its balance and remove the record from Mrs Ss credit file. Im mindful that when accounts 
have been opened fraudulently, the primary party that has caused the issue is the fraudster. 
SDFC is losing out here as well. I can appreciate why Mrs S is unhappy, and arguably SDFC 
could have done more off the back of the letters she sent in. But in the round, I think what its 
agreed to do is a fair way to put things right. And Im not making any further directions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and, to the extent its not done so already, 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very must: 
Recall the debt and clear any outstanding balance thats due. 
Remove all record of the debt from Mrs Ss credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman