DRN-3788687
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled a 
claim under her motor insurance policy. 
Miss S has been dealing with Hastings Direct throughout her claim. They are the insurance 
broker but Advantage is the insurance underwriter and responsible for her claim. So, Ill refer 
to Advantage throughout my decision. 
What happened
Miss S was involved in a car accident in November 2021. She contacted Advantage and 
made a claim under her motor insurance policy. Advantage decided it wasnt economical to 
repair Miss Ss car and wrote it off. It valued the car at £1,584. It deducted about £380 from 
that amount to take account of the excess of £250 and the remaining instalments on her 
policy premium it was due to take by direct debit.
Miss S complained. She wasnt happy with the valuation as she believed the car was worth 
more. She wasnt happy that Advantage had cancelled her policy and deducted amounts for 
the excess and for the outstanding instalments. And she said Advantage had failed to 
respond to her queries about keeping the car. Miss S was also unhappy with the service 
Advantage had provided, particularly the amount of time it had taken to get through on the 
phone only to then be disconnected. 
Advantage thought its valuation was fair and explained why it had offered that amount. It 
said it had made the deductions from that figure in line with the terms and conditions of 
Miss Ss policy. And it hadnt found any evidence of calls being disconnected deliberately. 
But it accepted it hadnt responded to her request to keep the car. And it shouldnt therefore 
have cancelled her policy. It apologised for the service it had provided and paid her £100 for 
any inconvenience or distress caused. It also said Miss S would need to pay a retention fee 
if she wanted to keep the car. Miss S wasnt happy with this response and so brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Advantage had offered a fair amount for Miss Ss car. She said 
shed compared three different motor valuation guides and Advantage had offered Miss S 
the highest amount of the three, which she thought was reasonable. She said Miss Ss policy 
explained why she would need to pay the excess even if the damage wasnt her fault, plus 
any outstanding instalments. Advantage told this service it had some issues with its 
telephone lines at the time Miss S had tried to contact it and it apologised for the difficulties 
she had faced. Our investigator thought the £100 Advantage had paid Miss S for the 
cancellation of her policy and delay in providing a retention figure was a fair resolution to 
those issues.    
As Miss S remains unhappy, her complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Miss Ss claim has continued beyond the final response to her complaint 
Advantage gave her in March 2022, and shes remained unhappy with how its handled 
matters. To be clear, in this decision, I will only be looking at issues up until this final 
response and wont comment on whats happened after this date. Miss S should make a 
separate complaint if shes not happy with the more recent handling of her claim. 
Valuation
Miss S has questioned the use of motor guides to value her car. She doesnt feel as though 
the settlement is fair as it doesnt reflect the current market. She thinks £2,000 would be 
more appropriate. I should explain that its not my role to value Miss Ss car. This services 
approach is to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. And to do that we use 
relevant trade guides, as well as considering other information such as adverts. But we tend 
to find the guides most persuasive as theyre based on research across the country and 
work out the likely retail selling price rather than advertised asking prices.
Advantage valued Miss Ss car at £1,584. Our investigator thought that valuation was fair 
and reasonable and so do I. Let me explain why. The terms and conditions of Miss Ss 
insurance policy with Advantage say that it will refer to motor trade guides when determining 
the market value and itll consider the amount the policy holder would have got for the car if it 
was sold immediately before the accident. For a vehicle like Miss Ss in November 2021, 
Advantage said the trade guides contained the following figures:
Glass - £1,500
CAP - £1,584
The average of those two figures is £1,542. Advantage also provided evidence of a newer 
car, with less mileage, being advertised for less than the amount it offered. 
Our investigator did her own assessment using the same two guides used by Advantage and 
one different one, Cazoo. Cazoo gave a valuation of £1,387. Advantage decided to offer 
Miss S the higher amount of the two valuations it did. As Cazoo provided a valuation lower 
than the two other guides, Im satisfied the offer of £1,584 was reasonable in the 
circumstances as it was the highest of the three valuations.
Miss S doesnt feel as though the valuation reflects the current market and I recognise the 
second hand market has picked up considerably since the accident, meaning vehicles are 
priced higher than they once were. While I sympathise with Miss Ss situation, Advantage 
acted in line with its policy when it considered the value of the car at the time of the accident 
rather than now. So, I cant say it acted unfairly. 
Deductions 
Miss S wanted Advantage to return the excess of £250 that was deducted from her 
settlement. But I dont think that would be reasonable. Miss Ss insurance policy with 
Advantage sets out what happens in the event of a claim. In terms of paying an excess, it 
says the excess is the part of the claim the policy holder must pay, even if the damage or 
loss isnt their fault. So, I think its reasonable for Advantage to ask Miss S to pay the excess 
of £250 shed agreed to pay in the event of a claim. 
Miss Ss policy also explains what happens if her car cant be repaired and the policy 
premium is being paid by instalments under a loan arrangement. It says that once the 
insurer settles a claim for total loss, itll take the outstanding amount due out of the settlement. This is standard industry practice. If a claim is made, the premium isnt 
refundable even if the car is written off during the policy year. If the policy holder was paying 
the yearly premium by monthly instalments, they must still pay the outstanding instalments 
after the car is written off. And so, in light of the above, I think it was reasonable for 
Advantage to ask Miss S to pay the outstanding instalments on her policy after it settled the 
claim. 
Retention of the car and cancellation of her policy
Miss S was unhappy that Advantage didnt respond to her enquiries about keeping her car. I 
can see that Miss S said she was interested in keeping the car when she contacted 
Advantage in December 2021. She then asked for a retention figure on several occasions in 
January 2022. Advantage accepted it failed to respond to her requests and its apologised 
for the poor service she received.
Advantage also apologised for cancelling Miss Ss policy in January 2022. It said it would 
usually only keep the policy open for 30 days after a settlement had been made. But it 
accepted it shouldnt have cancelled Miss Ss policy once she said she wanted to keep the 
car. 
I can understand Miss Ss frustration when Advantage cancelled her policy and failed to 
respond to her questions about a retention fee. Advantage paid Miss S £100 to apologise for 
these two oversights. At the same time, it explained what she would need to do to retain the 
car. And it reinstated her policy. I think that was a reasonable response in the circumstances 
and I think the payment of £100 was a fair way of putting things right. So, I dont think it 
needs to do anything more.  
Telephone calls
Miss S was also unhappy that calls she made to Advantage were disconnected. She said it 
cut the calls numerous times and quite often after shed been on the phone for up to an hour. 
Advantage said it couldnt find any evidence of calls being cut off deliberately. It also told this 
service that a few of the calls she made on one particular day in early March 2022 had 
disconnected when she was put on hold. Advantage said this was due to line issues it was 
experiencing on that day.
Ive listened to the calls Miss S made to Advantage, several of which disconnected after 
shed spoken to a call handler and was put on hold. I note that when Miss S raised that with 
another call handler they suggested there might be technical issues affecting the lines. 
Miss S might think the calls were disconnected deliberately but I havent seen any evidence 
of that and, based on what I have seen and heard, I think its more likely the calls 
disconnected due to technical problems. Advantage has apologised for the inconvenience 
caused and, on balance, I think thats a fair way of resolving this issue.
Summary
So, taking all of this together, I think it was right that Advantage compensate Miss S for the 
poor service Ive set out above. But I think the £100 it paid was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I recognise Miss Ss strength of feeling but, in light of the above, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask Advantage to do anything differently. My final decision
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has paid Miss S £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think that amount is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman