DRN-1496527
 
complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 2001. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Miss M disagreed with that view. She said she was very young when she took out the 
mortgage and it wasnt made clear to her that she could have taken out the mortgage 
without also buying the PPI. She also told us she had enough savings and backing, so she 
says she didnt want the PPI and wouldnt have found it beneficial. 
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Miss M had a choice in buying the PPI. HSBC has 
provided copy paperwork from the time of the sale. I have seen the mortgage loan 
agreement and some screenshots from the time of the sale. I can see from the screenshot 
that the PPI has been marked Y to indicate that Miss M wanted the cover. I think this likely 
reflected the discussion that Miss M had with the representative. I can also see that the 
policy was free for the fist six months and after that the premiums would have appeared on 
Miss Ms monthly account statements. So, if she hadnt wanted the PPI or didnt know she 
had the policy she could have queried it at the time with HSBC. I havent seen she has done 
so.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that she agreed to take it 
out at the time knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it. 
Miss M has also told us she felt pressured into buying it, but pressure is a subjective matter. 
What someone feels is pressure another might not. It could be that the representative told 
Miss M it was a good idea to have the PPI but thats different from telling her she had to 
have the policy to get her mortgage. And from what Miss M has said theres not enough 
evidence to say that the representative pressured Miss M into buying the PPI. So I cant 
uphold Miss Ms complaint about this.
Miss M said she couldnt remember whether this was an advised sale. HSBC said the policy 
was taken out in a branch and this was an advised sale. As a recommended sale this put 
more responsibility on HSBC for how it sold the policy. It meant HSBC had to take steps to 
make sure the cover was suitable for Miss M, as well as giving her enough information, so she could decide for herself whether she wanted the policy. I will look at this sale as though 
HSBC advised Miss M to take out the PPI.
It appears Miss M was eligible for the policy, and she was in full time employment and had 
no pre-existing medical conditions, so I dont think she would have been affected by any of 
the main terms and conditions of the policy which might have made it more difficult to make 
a successful claim.
I can see that if she had to make a claim on the policy, Miss Ms monthly mortgage 
repayments would have been met. The policy cost £11.88 per month and would have paid 
out a monthly benefit of around £200 for up to twelve months per successful claim. Miss M 
said she didnt need the policy as she would have received sick pay from her employer of 
less than three months and had at least six months worth of savings she could have used to 
make her repayments. Miss M also told us that she had a critical illness policy and her family 
would have supported her if she had needed help. But I have taken into account that this 
policy was in place to cover her mortgage repayments. The consequences of being unable 
to repay her mortgage was serious, so I think the PPI was useful. The policy would have 
paid out in addition to and for longer than her sick pay and her savings and meant she could 
have used the savings she had for any unforeseen expenses or for her day to day living 
expenses if she had fallen into difficulty. And PPI is not the same as a critical illness policy 
which would pay out a lump sum in the event of a critical illness.
Miss M told us that she would have been able to rely on her family if shed run into financial 
difficulty. And I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of those close to her to help. 
But such help cant always be guaranteed and available as and when and for as long as 
Miss M might have needed it.
Overall, looking at Miss Ms circumstances, I think the cover probably was a suitable 
recommendation. 
In addition to taking steps to ensure the policy was suitable, HSBC also still had to give 
Miss M enough information about the cover, so she could decide for herself whether it was a 
good fit for her needs. I think its possible that the information HSBC gave to Miss M could 
have been better. But for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been 
useful if Miss M lost her job or couldnt work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the 
insurance  so it looks like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I havent seen anything 
to suggest the premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Miss M would 
have acted differently even if HSBC had given her more or better information about the 
policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss M, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. I 
dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further action in respect of it
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman