DRN-1869293
The complaint
Mr Os unhappy with the actions Barclays Bank UK PLC took when he fell victim to a 
banking payment scam. Mr O transferred £16,750 to the scammer in a single payment.
What happened
On 10 May 2019 Mr O went to a branch of Barclays and transferred £16,750 from his 
business current account to who he believed was a builder hed instructed to carry out some 
work for him.
In fact, a scammer had intercepted emails between Mr O and his builder and, posing as the 
builder, sent a fake invoice to Mr O with their own bank details. 
When Mr O discovered hed been scammed he reported the incident to Barclays at 8:10 on 
12 May 2019. Barclays contacted the beneficiary bank at 8:42 to see if any funds remained 
but, unfortunately, it subsequently confirmed that only £6,455.40 remained. This was paid to 
Mr O.    
Barclays confirmed to Mr O that it wasnt able to reimburse him for any more of the funds 
hed lost. It responded to his point that the sort code given on his builders invoice  and 
which he produced to staff in-branch on 10 May 2019  was for a different bank to the one 
shown on the invoice. It said it was only required to make the payment based on the account 
number and sort code Mr O had provided. Barclays did, however, recognise that Mr O had 
been caused distress because of how long it had taken to resolve the matter and paid him 
£225 as compensation.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr O referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
reviewed the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They believed 
Barclays had acted fairly in allowing the payment to go through and that it did what it could to 
help him recover the money once it became aware of what had happened. 
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators findings. He felt Barclays hadnt authorised the 
payment without due diligence and had incorrectly informed him at the time that the payment 
had been made to his builder. So, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr O when he made the payment of £16,750 to a scammer, 
or whether it should have done more than it did.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the payment was particularly suspicious or 
unusual enough to say Barclays ought to have had concerns that Mr O was being scammed. 
The amount Mr O transferred wasnt particularly unusual for his business account and he 
accepts he authorised it. Having reviewed the business account activity in the weeks and 
months leading up to the transaction, I dont think it was sufficiently suspicious to conclude 
Barclays ought to have identified that it may be potentially fraudulent. 
Regarding Mr Os point that the beneficiary bank and payee name he gave didnt match up 
with those relating to the account number and sort code, Barclays wasnt required to check 
those details at the time. As the terms and conditions of Mr Os account explained, the 
information Barclays typically needed for payments to accounts in the UK consisted of the account number and sort code. It was simply for Barclays to ensure the money was paid 
correctly according to those details. Im satisfied it did that.
The Confirmation of Payee (CoP) scheme, which requires more of banks such as Barclays 
in these circumstances, was originally announced in October 2018 but wasnt due to come 
into force until July 2019. The deadline for implementing the scheme was then delayed until 
March and, finally, June 2020. Given that the deadline wasnt until more than 12 months 
after Mr O made the payment, and that the scheme doesnt apply retrospectively, I dont 
believe it would be fair for me to find that Barclays should have done more in this regard. So, 
in the circumstances, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by following the instructions 
Mr O gave and sending the money.
When Mr O told Barclays that hed been scammed, it acted quickly in that it contacted the 
beneficiary bank just over 30 minutes later to see if any of his money could be recovered. 
Unfortunately, by that time, the beneficiary bank eventually confirmed most of Mr Os money 
had gone and that only £6,455.40 remained. Its not unusual in scams like this for the 
scammers to withdraw funds very quickly. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest more 
funds would have been recovered had Barclays acted sooner.
Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and recover the money was all 
Barclays could do. 
That said, Barclays recognises it could have done more to keep Mr O better informed 
regarding the attempted recovery of his money. But I cant see that Barclays actions led to 
any financial loss. Taking this all into account, I think the £225 Barclays has already paid to 
Mr O for thats appropriate in the circumstances. I dont think Barclays needs to pay him any 
more.
Overall, its unfortunate that Mr Os lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will 
have been very upsetting for him. But, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays should have done more to prevent him losing his money. I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for Mr O having fallen victim to a scam, and I think it generally acted quickly 
once it knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to 
compensate Mr O for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman