DRN-2527652
The complaint
Mr W complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr W was given six loans by Lending Stream between April 2013 and April 2014. The loans 
were for amounts of between £50 and £150 and were repayable in instalments. Mr W says 
hes struggled with the debt and getting credit elsewhere. 
Lending Stream offered to refund interest and fees applied to loan 2, with interest, and 
remove adverse information about the loan from Mr Ws credit file. It said the loan was 
affordable, but in the circumstances it might not have been a good idea to offer the loan. 
Mr W didnt accept the offer and brought the complaint to us. 
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, explaining why I couldnt uphold the complaint 
without more information from Mr W. As Lending Stream had already made an offer relating 
to loan 2, I didnt look into this loan in my decision.
Mr W didnt respond. Lending Stream asked that we confirm the settlement to be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr W with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. It 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it needed to carry out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Less thorough checks might be proportionate in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think that a lender should do more, for instance if the 
customers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the greater the number and 
frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a customer takes out 
loans, the greater the risk of the borrowing being unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream made an offer to refund interest and fees applied to loan 2 (taken out in May 
2013), with interest, which would result in a payment to Mr W of about £120. It said it would 
remove adverse information about loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file. As Lending Stream has 
already made an offer relating to loan 2, I wont comment on this loan further here.
Lending Stream did some checks before it lent to Mr W. It asked him for his income, and 
(before loans 3 to 6) his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file. Lending Stream 
provided a summary of the information it received.
I think the checks Lending Stream did before loan 1 were proportionate. The amounts that 
Mr W needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed declared. And 
I dont think the information Lending Stream received would have caused it any significant 
concerns. I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to think that Mr W had enough 
income to meet his normal expenditure and credit costs and the loan instalments.
It seems Mr W had some financial difficulties after taking out loans 1 and 2. He missed the 
scheduled repayment in June 2013. Lending Stream wrote to Mr W about his arrears, and 
applied arrears fees. It agreed to reschedule repayment of the loan balances to 
accommodate the change in your financial circumstances. However, Mr W repaid both 
loans in August 2013. And he didnt borrow from Lending Stream again until April 2014  
more than seven months later. So when Mr W asked for loan 3, I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to assume that any problems with his finances had been resolved.
In the circumstances, I think the checks made by Lending Stream before it gave Mr W loan 3 
were proportionate. The amounts that Mr W needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared, and the repayments appeared affordable. And the 
information Lending Stream received wouldnt have alerted it to a problem.
Mr W took out loans 4 to 6 before hed repaid earlier borrowing. When I've looked at the 
repayments he needed to make I've considered the total amount he needed to pay Lending 
Stream each month for all his open loans. While the amounts Mr W needed to pay appear 
affordable (based on the information Lending Stream had) taking out several loans in quick 
succession could suggest his finances were under pressure. But here, on balance, I don't 
think that pattern had become so clear when Mr W took out loans 4 to 6 that Id have 
expected Lending Stream to stop lending to Mr W entirely. 
I think though that Lending Stream should have done more before giving loan 6 to Mr W. 
This was Mr Ws fourth lending request in less than three weeks. I think this should have 
suggested to Lending Stream that Mr W might be experiencing some financial pressures. I 
think Lending Stream should have asked him some further, very specific questions about 
any other short-term loans that he was already committed to repaying.
While I dont think the checks Lending Stream did on the final loan were sufficient, that 
doesnt itself mean that Mr Ws complaint should succeed. Id need evidence from that time 
to see if Lending Stream would have known Mr W couldnt sustainably repay the loan if it 
had carried out proportionate checks.
Mr W sent a copy of his credit report. In April 2014 he had sustained arrears for a personal 
loan, and hed taken out a short-term loan in January 2014 which hed repaid. This suggests 
Mr W was having some difficulties, but I dont think this is enough for me to find that Lending 
Stream would have known loan 6 wasnt affordable if it had made proportionate checks. To 
do this, Id need further evidence from that time  such as copies of bank statements. Mr W 
hasnt provided this evidence. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream made an offer to refund interest and fees applied to loan 2, with interest, 
which would result in a payment to Mr W of about £120. It said it would remove adverse 
information about loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.My final decision
My decision is that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should pay an amount 
equal to the interest and fees applied to loan 2 (the loan taken out by Mr W in May 2013), 
with interest, and remove adverse information about loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file, as it 
offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman