DRN-3081002
The complaint
Miss N has complained Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited is holding her liable for 
a hire purchase agreement she didnt know she took out.  
What happened
After a marital breakdown, Miss N became involved with someone else. He persuaded her 
hed be able to get her a car. She was taken to a dealership, told not to speak to anyone but 
just to sign the relevant boxes on a hire purchase agreement. This was in January 2018.
When Miss N noticed payments being taken from her current account, she tried to raise this 
with the man involved and then reported the issue to the police. The police impounded the 
car and this was returned to VWFS. VWFS believed Miss N continued to owe them the 
money outstanding from the hire purchase agreement. After re-selling the car, they asked 
Miss N to repay the shortfall of over £7,000.
Miss N became ill and was diagnosed with a serious health condition after a stroke and 
ongoing memory issues. Miss N brought her complaint to the ombudsman service in 2020. 
Miss N has also confirmed to us shes a survivor of domestic abuse.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence including medical records, information from the 
police and VWFS testimony. He firstly wondered whether VWFS may take a differing view of 
the complaint based on what had happened to Miss N. VWFS declined. A formal 
assessment confirmed that there was no basis to hold Miss N liable for the outstanding debt 
as shed not taken this out knowingly or willingly as she was a victim of deception.
No response was received from VWFS. Miss Ns complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I know Ive abbreviated what happened in this complaint in my note on the background. 
However our investigator laid out all the background and evidence  which has also been 
shared with VWFS  in his view of 2 September 2021. I dont feel the need to write this again 
as there seems no dispute about the detail. Im also conscious that this decision is a public 
document and feel no need to put some of this into the public domain, albeit anonymised.
Miss Ns consistent testimony is supported by the police evidence which stated opened as 
domestic due to possible coercion to sign agreement possible elements of fraud by known 
suspect. 
VWFS has not suggested to us that Miss N isnt telling the truth. Their case relies on the fact 
that Miss N signed the agreement. They also say Miss N called them to change her account 
details but theres no clear evidence this call was Miss N at all. Knowing the detail of the 
scam that happened here, I think its more than likely this was another party.
I dont dispute Miss N signed the agreement, but I believe all the evidence shows Miss N 
was a victim of a serious scam and taken advantage of. As soon as Miss N realised what 
happened, she reported this to the police and made sure the car was impounded. This all 
happened within a month of the agreement being taken out.
It's clear from VWFSs evidence that they never completed any investigation into potential 
fraud here. I think this was an error. If this had happened it may have led to VWFS 
concluding that this was a scam and theyd have written off the debt accordingly. I also say 
this because of the value of the car that was purchased and the financial commitment 
Miss N was being asked to repay. I seriously doubt  knowing what I do of Miss Ns financial 
situation at the time  that any agreement was ever affordable.
Im aware Miss Ns serious health issues were in 2019. I think its possible that the stress of 
what had happened wont have helped in Miss Ns recovery.
Im aware no police prosecution happened and VWFS may be relying on this as showing 
there was no scam. I dont agree. Unfortunately as we all know a number of fraud cases are 
not pursued.
Overall I believe Miss N didnt knowingly sign the agreement nor is there any evidence she 
had any benefit from the car. Therefore I dont believe theres any basis for VWFS to 
continue to hold Miss N liable for this debt.
Putting things right
As I believe Miss N was the victim of a scam, I am instructing VWFS to write off the debt 
related to the hire purchase agreement in her name. They will also need to remove details of 
the hire purchase agreement from her credit record.
Based on what Ive said above about the impact of this issue on Miss N, I think its fair and 
reasonable to ask VWFS to pay her £250 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Write off any debt from the hire purchase agreement in Miss Ns name;
Delete details of this hire purchase agreement from Miss Ns credit record; and
Pay Miss N £250 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman