DRN-3107401
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is that Allianz Insurance Plc provided an unsuitable landlords insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr W owns a property which includes four self-contained flats. He held a landlords 
insurance policy, which was arranged through a broker and underwritten by Allianz. The 
policy began in 2017 and was renewed with Allianz a further three times.
Mr W queried the policy wording with the broker, as he was concerned about the policy 
definition of Private Residence and as such didnt think it provided the required cover for 
the four flats.
The broker said the policy was suitable in line with the definition shown in the policy 
schedule. Mr W disagreed and complained.
The broker referred the relevant parts of Mr Ws complaint to Allianz who provided a final 
response and didnt uphold the complaint. Allianz said that whilst it accepted the wording 
could be improved, it didnt agree that the definition of Private Residence had impacted    
Mr W. It said that in the event of a valid loss, the claim wouldve been paid, so it was 
satisfied that the policy it offered covered Mr Ws premises. 
Mr W didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. He said the policies hadnt been 
worded appropriately for his property, given its layout. And he added that because of this, if 
he was required to claim on more than one of the flats then the claim wouldnt be valid.
To put things right, Mr W asked for four years of premium to be refunded, and £400 
compensation total for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of his 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded the policy provided cover for Mr Ws premises which included the four separate 
flats, so they didnt agree the policy was unsuitable. 
Mr W disagreed. He maintained his position that the policy wasnt suitable. And he was 
unhappy that Allianz had told him it would work with the broker to amend the policy wording, 
but hed not had a response from the broker since. As a result, he wanted £500 total 
compensation.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised many points in his response to our investigator. But Im not going to 
comment on everything hes said. Instead, Ive focussed on those most relevant to this 
complaint against Allianz, which is in essence  did Allianz know what it was insuring and 
offering cover for? However, I want to reassure Mr W that Ive considered everything hes 
provided in reaching my decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr W has focussed on the wording in the policy booklet and says that as Private 
Residence is defined as A self-contained private dwelling house, maisonette or flat 
within a block of flats., this renders the insurance unsuitable for his property as a 
whole. 
But the policy booklet also says that the Policy is made up of several parts which 
must be read together as they jointly form Your contract of insurance. These are the 
Policy Wording, Summary of Cover, and Insurance Schedule. 
Having reviewed the policy documentation jointly, Im satisfied that Allianz was aware 
of what it was offering cover for. I say this because the policy schedule shows that 
the insurance cover is set up for four flats at the main premise address and as a 
result, Im persuaded that it covered him for each individual flat and the premises.
Im also persuaded that the above documentation shows that Allianz accepted the 
risk of four self-contained flats at the premises. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Allianz wouldnt have honoured the contract as set out in the policy schedule  which 
is the part of the contract most relevant to Mr Ws individual demands and needs.
Mr Ws said that as Allianz has accepted the policy wording needed to be changed, 
this shows it was unsuitable. But I dont agree. Im satisfied Allianz knew what it was 
insuring, provided cover, and confirmed valid claims would be paid. And I find its 
position in asking the broker to amend the policy wording is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr W has raised a number of arguments about the potential impact of the policy wording 
should he have needed to claim, and the application of the Private Residence definition 
throughout the policy booklet. But as our investigator has already said, our role is to consider 
what actually happened, as opposed to potential claim scenarios.
So, as Im satisfied the policy provided the level of cover Mr W required, I find Allianzs 
position reasonable and wont require it to do anything further. And I dont find that the 
circumstances of this case merit any award for distress and inconvenience.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman