DRN-3606601
The complaint
Mr N complains that JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (Chase) contacted him to 
close one of his debit cards he held with them.
What happened
Mr N had two separate current accounts with Chase that he opened on 4 and 9 October 
2021, and he received two debit cards. For each account he registered a different email 
address and telephone number, but he used the same name and address for both accounts. 
Chase contacted Mr N on 25 March 2022, to query the situation. As Chase does not allow 
customers to have more than one debit card with them, they informed Mr N that one of his 
debit card accounts needed to be closed. Mr N made a complaint to Chase. He said he was 
worried how this would affect his credit file if Chase closed one of his accounts. 
Chase partially upheld Mr Ns complaint. They said that as his account was not closed for 
fraud related reasons then this shouldnt impact his credit score. Chase said their terms and 
conditions show that they only offer one card for all accounts. If a customer adds more 
accounts, then they can be linked to the debit card if their customer prefers. Chase said that 
as they had allowed Mr N to open two accounts when this should not have been the case 
they would offer him £50 compensation. Mr N rejected this and he brought his complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator said she felt Chase had fairly applied their terms and conditions as they 
state We can end the agreement immediately without advance notice if you: are no longer 
(or were not) entitled to have your account or the service. She also said that their offer of 
£50 compensation was fair. 
Mr N asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said that the terms and conditions dont state that he couldnt have two profiles 
with Chase, only that he cant have separate accounts. He said when they initiated the 
termination of the account, they hadnt given him a reason for doing so. He said he received 
phone calls from Chase to either close a profile down immediately with no formal notification, 
which he felt was a breach of their terms and conditions, or they would give him 60 days 
notice and he had to bring his complaint to our service. Mr N says he cant see any merit or 
policy in such a closure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing 
on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
As our investigator has already explained to Mr N, our service cannot ask a business to 
change their internal processes, or the terms and conditions of their accounts. But we can 
investigate whether theyve applied the terms fairly to an individuals situation. It would be 
the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Chase to make changes to their terms and conditions, if necessary. 
Ive had a look what Chases general terms and conditions say about this situation. And 
while theres no specific wording which explicitly covers this situation, the terms and 
conditions do have a section which says One card for all accounts. Under this section it 
says we'll give you a debit card for making payments and to begin with it will be linked to the 
first account you open with us. If you add accounts, you can link it to one of them if you 
prefer, at any time through the app or by contacting us (unless we have told you otherwise).
So Im persuaded that the terms and conditions show that Chase would provide only one 
card for all of Mr Ns accounts. Here they did not do so, as it appears that Chase didnt 
realise that Mr N was the same customer that had opened a separate account five days 
earlier, which was under a separate profile. The terms show that the debit card will be linked 
to the first account he opens with them. It also says that if he adds accounts he can link the 
account if he prefers. But it doesnt say that he will receive another debit card to do so. Im 
persuaded this is explained by the terms saying One card for all accounts.  As Mr N is one 
customer (even if he did have two customer profiles), Im not persuaded that this would 
mean that two customer profiles would enable him to have two separate debit cards. 
Ive considered what Mr N has said about the terms and conditions dont state that he 
couldnt have two profiles with Chase. But by the same logic, the terms and conditions dont 
say that he can have two profiles with Chase, therefore, based on what the terms do say 
about one card for all accounts, I cant say it is unfair that Chase are applying this term to 
him. And I wouldnt expect the terms and conditions to be able to cover every single scenario 
that could happen.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions to see when Chase can close an account 
without any notice. One of the reasons is if Mr N is no longer (or were not) entitled to have 
your account or the service. So it could be that under the one card for all accounts, that 
Chase may deem that Mr N shouldnt have been entitled to have a second account under a 
separate profile and that is why he says they tried to close his account immediately. But Im 
also aware of the strength of feeling that Mr N has that he wouldnt fall under this clause.
So Im also persuaded that it could have resulted in an unfair outcome if this clause was 
applied and Mr N was given no time to make alternative arrangements for the account being 
closed. I say this as it was Chases systems which enabled Mr N to open his second 
account. So the individual circumstances here werent straight forward. While Mr N says that 
Chase were trying to close his account down immediately, they did contact him to discuss 
this situation, when their terms may not require them to do this (as they could close the 
account immediately without talking to Mr N if they deemed he was not entitled to have the 
second account). So I am pleased that Chase did give him 60 days notice to close the 
account.
Chase could have alternatively given Mr N 60 days notice to close one of his accounts when 
they said he could only have one card for all accounts. But it appears that they delayed this 
until our investigator gave both parties a view of the complaint, which Im persuaded was a 
reasonable thing to do, when they werent required to do so. 
Chase are not required to give a specific reason for closing a customers account with 
notice, in the same way that Mr N would not be required to tell them the specific reason if he 
wanted to close an account with them. Here, Chase did explain that they wanted to close his account due to him having more than one debit card. Chases terms and conditions do allow 
them to close an account for any other reason (which isnt listed in the immediate closure 
list) by giving their customer at least two months advance notice. So Im satisfied that they 
have not breached their terms and conditions.
But Im persuaded that Chase did cause Mr N inconvenience by allowing him to open two 
separate debit card accounts, when their terms show he should only have one card for all 
accounts. And this wasnt brought to Mr Ns attention for several months after he had 
opened the second account and was provided with a second debit card. So what I would 
expect Chase to do here is to apologise for the inconvenience Mr N had here and to offer 
him compensation to recognise the impact this would have on him. And thats what Chase 
did in their final response to him. 
Chase apologised that Mr N had such a frustrating experience. And they also offered him 
£50 compensation for this. Im satisfied that this is fair. I say this as had Chase not upheld 
the complaint, the £50 compensation is broadly in line with what I would have awarded Mr N 
for the impact this would likely have had on him. So it follows that Chase should pay Mr N 
£50 compensation for inconvenience if they have not already done so, but I dont require 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association has already made an offer to pay Mr N £50 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association should pay £50 to Mr N 
if they havent already done so. But I dont require them to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman