DRN-4242031
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) poor advice resulted in her not 
obtaining the cash withdrawal from a branch of Barclays that she wanted.
What happened
Ms Y contacted Barclays by online chat on 2 March 2023. Ms Y informed the chat agent she 
had imminent plans to move abroad and wanted to make arrangements to collect and 
withdraw £6,500 in cash. It was agreed this would be on 3 March at 10.30am from a branch 
of Barclays. In-line with this arrangement the chat agent sent the branch an email confirming 
Ms Y would be coming in so that her cash would be ready for collection in time and 
confirmed with Ms Y the counter opening times which showed it closed at 2pm.
Ms Y contacted Barclays the following day to change the time of the appointment to 12 
noon but was told no appointment had been booked. This was because no appointment had 
been booked as it wasnt possible to book an appointment to withdraw cash. 
Unfortunately, this is where an error occurred on Barclays behalf  its agent wasnt familiar 
with the cash collection process and didnt understand it wasnt possible to book an 
appointment to withdraw cash. So the agent booked Ms Y a new appointment for 10.30am 
on 4 March - a Saturday when its counters were closed.
Ms Y attended the branch but as the counter was closed, she wasnt able to collect the cash 
and was only able to withdraw £2,000 in cash.
Ms Y complained to Barclays about this. Barclays agreed its service had been poor and 
offered her £100 compensation which was to also include cover for any future fees incurred 
for making a full and final transfer from her Barclays account. Barclays said that it doesnt 
charge international transfer fees when done on its app and that it would refund any 
exchange fees incurred by Ms Y from transferring the funds providing she provides it with 
evidence of the fees incurred.
Ms Y was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. Ms Y says that the 
£100 offered doesnt cover the stress and inconvenience shes been put through and that 
due to the non-receipt of funds her family lost out on an investment opportunity.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ys concerns and thought that we couldnt ask 
Barclays to compensate a customer for events (such as investments) that may occur in the 
future as these cant be reliably proven. 
They reached the conclusion that Barclays had made an error in the advice it gave but 
thought that the offer of £100 plus any transfer fees was fair as they didnt think the impact of 
the mistake on Ms Y caused prolonged or significant distress.
Ms Y disagreed, and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain my role is to look at the problems Ms Y has experienced and see if 
Barclays has done anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if 
possible - to put Ms Y back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. And I may award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case Barclays has accepted it made an error and as a result Ms Y wasnt able to 
withdraw the funds she wished. So what I need to decide is whether Barclays has done 
enough to put things right for Ms Y.
Ms Y says she understands that it is not the business responsibility to compensate her for 
investments she said her family planned on making as this cant be proven reliably. But Ms Y 
says Barclays error has resulted in her not retrieving the cash in time to take overseas 
meaning she isnt able to utilise these funds.
I accept that due to Barclays error Ms Y was unable to retrieve all the funds in her account in 
cash prior to leaving the country. But I think Ms Y has to take some responsibility where she 
can in mitigating the problem. And in this case she has the option of retrieving the funds held 
in her account in another - and some might say more secure way  by transferring them to 
her account held overseas. And Barclays has already agreed to refund Ms Y on any 
exchange fees incurred from transferring her funds.
So Ms Y is perfectly able  should she choose to do so - to transfer the funds to her account 
held overseas. But she hasnt done this and over four months has passed  which suggests 
to me that she currently has no need for these funds. 
I accept that there may be fees charged from an intermediary bank for an international 
transfer, but Ms Y wouldve likely incurred some type of fee for exchanging her cash into the 
foreign currency she wished to spend her money in. And the £100 compensation is to partly 
cover these fees. Ms Y says the £100 wont cover these intermediary fees and that she 
would make a loss. But has admitted she, nor Barclays know how much these intermediary 
banks fees might be. So I dont think it can be said that Ms Y has made a loss.
And I dont think it would be fair to expect Barclays to reimburse Ms Y for an unquantifiable 
amount at a point in the future when Ms Y decides to make the transfer. 
So this being the case I think what Barclays has already offered to settle Ms Ys complaint is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Im not going to ask it do any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Barclays Bank UK PLC has done enough to settle Ms 
Ys complaint and Im not going to ask it do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman