DRN-3267138
The complaint
Mr A complains that Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited (Compass) gave 
him unsuitable advice. In particular he says it advised him to move his personal pension pot 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) so he could invest £20,000 of his pension pot in a 
high-risk, illiquid investment. 
Mr A is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
I understand that in late 2009, Mr A discussed his pension arrangements with Compass. 
Fact find information recorded at the time set out that Mr A was 50 years old, had no 
dependents and wanted to retire at age 65. It appears that Mr A had some deposit-based 
savings and was earning £23,000 per year. Mr A also held a mortgage endowment policy 
and a personal pension plan that both he and his employer were contributing to. His attitude 
to investment risk was recorded as balanced for retirement planning.
Compass advised Mr A to transfer his pension pot to a SIPP as he apparently wanted to 
invest in a timber fund with some of his pension savings. It noted that his current personal 
pension did not permit partial transfers.
Mr A transferred his personal pension pot to the SIPP recommended by Compass in early 
2010. He invested £20,945 in a timber investment; the Princess Project run by a company 
called Silva Tree. Compass advised Mr A to invest a further £47,500 in a balanced portfolio 
strategy managed on a discretionary basis by a third-party investment manager.
It appears Mr A was charged an establishment charge of £425, plus VAT for the SIPP and 
an annual management charge of £600, plus VAT. In addition, an annual management 
charge of 1.35%, was taken from the discretionary managed portfolio held in the SIPP, of 
which Compass received 0.5% per year. In its suitability report Compass set out that this fee 
was to pay for ongoing advice.
Despite having received an annual fee for ongoing advice Compass has not been able to 
provide this service with up-to-date information on Mr As SIPP investments. The investigator 
therefore requested copies of statements from Mr As SIPP provider. These statements 
showed that the total value of Mr As SIPP increased from around £68,600 in March 2012 to 
over £91,100 in February 2020.
In January 2021, Mr As representative complained to Compass about the pension advice it 
have given Mr A in 2010. It said the risks involved in the investments Mr A held in his SIPP 
were not fully and clearly explained and it said he would not have gone ahead with the 
transfer to the SIPP if he had understood the risks involved.
Compass did not uphold Mr As complaint. It said, in summary, that as Mr A wanted to 
invest in a Timber Project, the only option available to him, was to transfer his existing 
benefits from his [personal pension plan] to a SIPP which gave him a more flexible way to 
invest his existing pension fund. 
It said it had explained the features and charges for the SIPP to Mr A and it said:
 the higher risk of investing in such funds and the Timber project were clearly brought to 
Mr As attention. It said Mr A could have chosen not to go ahead with its recommendation 
if he was not entirely satisfied or had any doubts.
Mr A did not accept Compass response and his representative referred the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator said that, having carefully considered the information available, he thought 
Mr As complaint should be upheld.
He noted that the advice Mr A had complained about was given over six years before he had 
brought his complaint. But he said he was of the view that Mr A had brought his complaint 
within three years of the date he ought reasonably to have become aware that he might 
have cause for complaint. As this was the case, he said he was satisfied that the complaint 
had been brought within the timescales this service must apply.
In order to put matters right he said Compass should put Mr A back in the position he would 
now be in, but for its unsuitable advice. He also said it should pay Mr A an additional £300 
for the worry and upset this matter had caused him.
Compass did not accept our investigators view. It made the following points on whether 
Mr As complaint had been brought within the timescales this service must apply:
you have previously commented that I dont see that Mr A wouldve had cause for 
complaint prior to January 2018 about the advice he received. You have concluded that you 
do not believe the client would have been aware more than three years ago that there was a 
problem with the investment. Compass are not certain that this is a fair conclusion and 
consequently, we would ask you to review this on the basis of the clients requirements at 
the time of the advice and subsequently with any ongoing documentation the client would 
have received from the Silva Tree investment.
It also commented on the merits of Mr As complaint. It said, in summary, that Mr A:
had already decided upon the investment before he met with the adviser with a clear 
objective of investing in the Silva Tree Investment. The client was offered warnings about the 
high risk nature of the investment. In addition the only way to facilitate the clients 
requirements was by way of the SIPP, his existing pension could not accommodate investing 
in accordance with his requirements. The higher costs of the SIPP were clearly set out in the 
Suitability Report...
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first consider whether this complaint has been brought within the timescales I am 
required to apply. 
This service does not have the power to consider every complaint referred to us. In 
particular, the rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), 
in the Dispute Resolution Sourcebook (DISP) say:The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received;
Unless a business consents, or exceptional circumstances apply, were unable to consider a 
complaint made outside these time limits.
It is not in dispute that this complaint was made more than six years after the advice was 
given. Mr A was advised to take out the SIPP in early 2010. A complaint about this advice 
was made in early 2021, around 11 years later. 
I must therefore consider whether the complaint was brought within three years of the date 
Mr A knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he might have cause for complaint.
Compass has asked this service to review any ongoing documentation the client would 
have received from the Silva Tree investment. I understand this to mean that Compass feels 
Mr A may have received documentation about his Silva Tree investment, more than three 
years before he brought his complaint, that ought reasonably to have given him cause for 
complaint.
The only documentation this service has been provided with relating to Mr As Silva Tree 
investment is a copy of a letter dated April 2013, regarding a change in the management 
company for the investment. No other documentation has been provided. In the absence of 
any documentation regarding Mr As Silva Tree investment, I have considered whether the 
statements and valuations Mr A received from his SIPP provider, might have led him to think 
he had cause to complain about the advice he had received, more than three years before 
he brought his complaint.
For whatever reason Compass did not provide this service with information it had received 
from Mr As SIPP provider, so our investigator contacted Mr As SIPP provider directly for 
copies of his statements.
These statements showed that the total value of Mr As SIPP increased from around 
£68,600 in March 2012, to over £80,300 in June 2016 and again to over £91,100 in February 
2020. The SIPP statements do not provide a breakdown of the value of individual holdings in 
Mr As SIPP. As this is the case, I dont think there is anything in these statements that 
would have led Mr A to think that he might have cause for complaint any sooner than he did. 
They showed his SIPP was steadily increasing in value with no suggestion that there might 
be a problem with any of the investments.
Before reaching a decision on whether Mr As complaint had been brought within the 
timescales I must apply, I asked our investigator to contact Compass again to ask if it had 
any evidence to show that Mr A ought reasonably to have been aware that he might have 
cause for complaint about the advice it gave him, more than three years before his 
representative brought a complaint on his behalf.
Compass did not provide any documentation to this service and instead asked this service to 
provide it with copies of the statements our investigator had obtained from Mr As SIPP 
provider. Having had the opportunity to review these statements it said:it is not clear how the Silva Tree investment value was incorporated in these statements if 
at all. If they had been included this seems somewhat dubious as the project failed some 
time ago, so how was any value put on it. Indeed The Hartley SIPP went into administration 
in July 2022. The Silva Tree project and similar investments are subject to FCA 
investigations, also involving The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Consequently, Compass maintain that any losses sustained should be referred to the 
FSCS.
It is not clear to me why Compass has not been able to provide this service with a copy of 
the information it used to review Mr As investments, particularly as it appears it has been 
receiving an ongoing fee to provide Mr A with regular annual reviews of the equity 
investments. If Compass had concerns about the SIPP statements Mr A was receiving, from 
the SIPP provider it had recommended, I think it should have raised these concerns with the 
SIPP provider.
I do not see, however, how any concerns that Compass might belatedly have, about these 
SIPP statements supports its position that Mr A ought reasonably to have known more than 
three years before he brought his complaint, that he might have cause for complaint. As 
Compass has acknowledged, the statements do not provide a breakdown of the value of the 
investments held in Mr As SIPP, so I dont think he could reasonably have been expected to 
know that there might be a problem with the Silva Tree investment from these statements. I 
also note that the statements do not provide any details of the ongoing charges that were 
being taken from Mr As SIPP and the underlying investments.
In the absence of anything to show that Mr A ought reasonably to have known that there 
might be a problem with the investments in his SIPP, more than three years before he 
brought his complaint, my decision is that Mr A has brought his complaint within the 
timescales this service must apply. 
I also do not see why Compass feels any losses sustained should be referred to the FSCS. 
As Compass is aware, the FSCS protects consumers when a financial business fails and 
cannot pay compensation. As Compass arranged the SIPP for Mr A, so that he could invest 
in the Silva Tree investment, it is responsible for paying any redress due to Mr A, not the 
FSCS.
suitability
As I have not seen anything that shows or suggests that Mr A has referred his complaint to 
this service too late, I have also considered the suitability of the advice Mr A received, as 
part of this decision. 
Having carefully considered this matter my decision is that the advice Mr A received to 
transfer his personal pension pot to a SIPP was unsuitable. Ill explain why.
It is unclear how Mr A became aware of the Silva Tree investment. In the suitability report 
Compass said:
You are keen to make your pension work hard for you and have identified a timber 
investment fund that you would like to invest £20,000 in from your pension. 
It went on to say that Mr A would like advice on how to invest the remainder once the 
SIPP has been established. Compass says that the only way to facilitate Mr As wish to invest in the Silva Tree 
investment was by way of the SIPP. It also says that, Mr A was offered warnings about the 
high risk nature of the [Silva Tree] investment.
Compass was required to give suitable investment advice. I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for it to arrange a SIPP for Mr A, without first considering whether his intention to 
invest in the Silva Tree investment was suitable for him, given what it knew about his 
personal and financial circumstances. If it felt the investment was not suitable, it should have 
made this clear to Mr A.
I have not seen anything that would support Compasss claim that it warned Mr A about the 
high risk nature of the Silva Tree investment. In fact, in the suitability report dated January 
2010, it said:
£20,945.60 is earmarked for your own investment into a timber investment called the 
Princess Project run by Silva Tree. I have not discussed, advised on, or made 
recommendations regarding this investment.
(bold is my emphasis)
In view of this it would appear that Compass is mistaken in its recent claims that its adviser 
warned Mr A about the high risk nature of this investment.
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Compass to have arranged a SIPP, so that Mr A 
could invest in the Silva Tree investment, without alerting Mr A to the high-risk nature of the 
investment. Given the information it had gathered about his personal and financial 
circumstances it knew that, even if Mr A was willing to invest over 25% of his pension pot in 
this apparently illiquid, non-standard investment, he did not have the capacity for loss.
I think Compasss adviser ought reasonably to have been aware that the risk profile of the 
Silva Tree investment  with projected returns of over 16% per year  was not suitable for 
Mr As stated balanced attitude to investment risk. Likewise, from the information I have 
seen it appears the leasehold agreement from Silva Tree was valid until September 2030. 
This end date for the lease was five years past Mr As intended retirement date. I think 
Compass should have alerted Mr A to this and to the likely implications of this for his 
intended retirement.
I havent seen anything in the information that has been provided to this service to show 
Compass advised Mr A against moving his personal pension pot to a SIPP. It appears that 
Compass did not take any steps to discuss Mr As wish to invest in the Silva Tree investment 
or to discourage him from investing in this high risk, illiquid investment. 
Given Mr As lack of investment knowledge and experience I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for Compass to set up a SIPP and transfer Mr As personal pension pot simply 
so he could invest nearly £21,000 in the Silva Tree investment, without taking any steps to 
explore why Mr A was apparently keen to invest in this timber investment.
As our investigator noted, the exact nature of the Silva Tree investment is unclear. The 
marketing material for the investment says it is not a collective investment scheme. But it 
does appear to have many of the characteristics of an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS). 
If Compass had made Mr A aware how high risk the Silva Tree investment was, I dont think 
he would have gone ahead with the investment. He would therefore not have had any need 
to transfer his pension pot from his personal pension provider to the SIPP.But, even if I were to accept that the advice to transfer his personal pension pot to a SIPP, in 
order to invest over 25% of his pension pot in a high risk, illiquid investment was suitable 
advice, I dont think the advice Compass gave Mr A on investing the rest of his pension pot 
was suitable.
The fact find information Compass recorded clearly set out that Mr As attitude to investment 
risk for pension planning was balanced. As he had invested over 25% of his pension pot in 
a high-risk investment, I think Compass should have taken this into account when it advised 
him on investing the rest of his pension pot.
It advised him to invest £47,500 in a balanced portfolio managed by a third party on a 
discretionary basis. I think this advice failed to take into account that Mr A intended to invest 
over 25% of his pension pot in a high-risk investment. As a result, Mr A was advised to take 
more risk with his pension savings than he wanted to take. In view of this I think the 
recommendation to invest in the balanced discretionary portfolio was unsuitable when Mr As 
Silva Tree investment is taken into account.
I am also not persuaded that the advice to invest in a portfolio that was managed on a 
discretionary basis was necessary given the additional costs involved. I have reached this 
view as I note that the suitability report set out that Compass would receive an ongoing fee 
to pay for ongoing advice as it said there will be a need to carry out regular annual reviews 
of the equity investments. Given the size of Mr As pension pot, and that Compass was 
charging him for ongoing advice, I think any fund switches required could have been 
arranged within Mr As existing personal pension plan, rather than incurring the higher 
charges involved in both the SIPP and the fees paid to the third party discretionary manager.
Having carefully considered the merits of Mr As complaint, I think the advice he received to 
transfer his personal pension pot to a SIPP, in order to invest in a high risk overseas timber 
investment and a balanced discretionary managed portfolio was unsuitable.
I have set out below what Compass needs to do to put matters right and to compensate 
Mr A for the worry and upset its unsuitable advice has caused him. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Compass do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, Compass must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.Compass should add interest as set out below:
Compass should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Compass is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr A £300 for the worry and upset this matter has caused him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Compass deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Compass should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it cannot not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Compass should take ownership of any illiquid asset by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Compass pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.If Compass is unable to purchase the illiquid asset, its value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Compass may require that Mr A provides 
an undertaking to pay Compass any amount he may receive from the illiquid asset in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Compass will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Compass totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by Compass taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mr A can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Compass 
is unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair 
that it pays Mr A an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr A's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Compass Wealth Management Consultants should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Compass Wealth Management Consultants should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr A in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman