DRN-2855363
The complaint
Mr R would like MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) to reimburse him legal costs he 
says he incurred because they failed to correctly handle his claim. 
  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
In July 2018 Mr R accidently knocked over a parked scooter as he was parking his own. He 
says he spoke to the owner of that vehicle, who confirmed there was no damage. On 7 
August 2018 Mr R received notification from the police that theyd received an allegation of 
an accident. It was alleged that Mr R had ridden without due care and attention and that hed 
failed to stop and exchange his details. Mr R responded to the police, confirmed he was the 
rider at the time and gave his account of events. In September 2018 MCE (as Mr Rs 
insurer) received notification of the incident. 
In January 2019, following a request for an update from Mr R, MCE told him that they would 
be accepting liability for the claim and would be looking to deal with the third partys losses 
on the best possible terms. Mr R responded asking that MCE dont accept liability as he 
believed the claim to be fraudulent, he shared the information hed already sent to the police. 
In April 2019 Mr R shared a court order with MCE that had been granted in his absence. He 
says he wasnt aware of the hearing and that hed been directed to pay around £1,800 to the 
third party. A few days later MCE responded to say that their legal team had been instructed 
and that they would be back in touch if further information was required. 
Mr R says he attended (unrepresented) a hearing in May 2019 in court and was advised to 
seek legal advice. The matter was transferred to another court local to Mr R. Following the 
advice from the court, on 8 May 2019 Mr R instructed a firm of solicitors B to represent him.
The court were informed that B were acting for Mr R on 10 May 2019. There followed 
numerous requests by B for information as to what MCE would be doing in relation to this 
matter for their mutual client, Mr R.
 
On 29 May 2019 MCE responded. They said they had been unaware of any court 
proceedings in May or earlier which is why they hadnt attended. They also said that the 
initial court order had been paid by them. They said they hadnt received any court or outlay 
information and so were unable to take any action at that time. 
B shared the relevant information the following day but didnt receive a response until 19 
June 2019. At that time MCE again confirmed that they would be dealing with the third 
partys losses on the best terms possible. B replied asking MCE if they would be going on 
the record for the court and whether they would be applying to have the default judgment set 
aside.
When no further response was received, B applied to have the default judgement set aside 
and a court date was set for February 2020. MCE later confirmed that they would act for Mr 
R in September 2019. I understand that MCE accepted liability, but disputed quantum and 
the claim was later settled in court. 
Mr R complained as he wanted MCE to reimburse him for the costs he incurred with B. MCE 
paid £800 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor service, but 
declined to meet his legal costs.
 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators recommended that it 
should be upheld. He thought Mr R had acted reasonably in appointing B to represent him 
when he was unable to get MCE to do so. MCE disagreed, they said there was no need for 
Mr R to appoint a solicitor. They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In September 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties that the service provided was poor. MCE have paid a total of 
£800 compensation for the impact of this. It seems that Mr R accepted our investigators 
view which concluded this was fair. So, I wont focus further on the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The outstanding matter to be determined relates to whether MCE 
ought to reimburse Mr R the legal costs he incurred with B. 
It appears that neither Mr R nor MCA were aware of the initial court hearing in April 2019 
when the interim judgement was passed in Mr Rs absence. This judgement was paid by 
MCE on Mr Rs behalf later the same month. 
There was then a court hearing in May 2019 which Mr R attended unrepresented. Mr R was 
clearly aware of this hearing, as he attended. MCE said that they couldnt attend as they 
werent aware of it. Our investigator asked Mr R if he informed MCE of this hearing at the 
time. He responded and said that he did and that he also believed MCE had been made 
aware of it from other sources. The records from MCE dont support that they were informed 
of this hearing prior to it having taken place. On balance, and in the absence of evidence to 
show otherwise, I think its more likely than not that Mr R didnt inform MCE. So, I dont think 
I can fairly say they were wrong to not attend a hearing they didnt know about.  
It was on the advice of the judge at that hearing that Mr R went on to appoint B to represent 
him (which he did on 8 May 2019). There followed several attempts by B to get in touch with 
MCE in relation to this matter throughout May 2019. MCE responded on 29 May 2019 to say 
that they hadnt received any court documentation and so were unable to take action until 
they did. B provided the documentation the following day.
Mr Rs policy says If we want to, we can take over and conduct in your name the defence 
settlement of any claim We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or 
the settlement of any claim. The person who is seeking payment under the policy shall give 
us all the information and assistance necessary for us to achieve a settlement. 
Broadly speaking this means that MCE can decide whether to defend or to settle a claim 
made against their policyholder. And that the policyholder must provide information and 
assistance to them. I appreciate that Mr R felt strongly that the claim being made by the third 
party was fraudulent. But whether to pursue that as a defence is a decision that MCE are 
entitled to make under the policy. As Ive mentioned above, I also think that Mr R ought to have informed MCE of the hearing 
in May 2019. Had he done so, its likely they would have taken some action in that regard. 
And so I dont think there was a need for Mr R to appoint B at that point. This is because, 
had he shared with MCE what was happening, they would have most likely been in a 
position to assist. So, I dont think MCE need to reimburse Mr R the legal costs he incurred 
in May 2019 with B. 
However, B provided all that MCE would have needed on 30 May 2019. And MCE didnt 
come on the record for Mr R until September 2019. I dont think Mr R acted unreasonably 
when retaining Bs services to help protect his legal position. Particularly when faced with 
very little communication or updates from MCE. Once provided with the information that they 
needed, I would have expected MCE to have arranged to promptly take over from B and to 
act for Mr R. Their failure to do so resulted in the costs being incurred. Im also mindful, that 
during a call with Mr R in June 2019, an agent of MCE told him that he would be reimbursed 
for the costs hed incurred with B. So, taking all of that into consideration, I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for Mr R to be reimbursed his legal costs with B (in relation to this 
matter) that were incurred from 1 June 2019 onwards.
MCE responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mr R made some further 
points which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can 
go ahead with my final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that he believes MCE were aware of the proceedings. He says the third partys 
solicitor confirmed this to both him and B verbally. He also says the third partys solicitor 
says they sent all documents to MCE in January 2019. Mr R also provided an email from 
April 2019 in which MCE confirm they are in receipt of court proceedings in relation to this 
matter. It isnt in dispute that MCE received the court order from April 2019 (which they paid 
later the same month). I think its most likely this is what was being referred to in the email 
Mr R has supplied. 
MCE have provided their file on this case which details the contact they received. Ive not 
seen evidence to persuade me that MCE were informed of the hearing in early May 2019 
(prior to it taking place). And as Ive covered above, when Mr R himself received notice of 
this, I dont think it is unreasonable to expect him to have passed this on to MCE. There is 
evidence that MCE chased the third partys solicitor because they were yet to receive any 
information in late April 2019. So on balance, even if it was sent by the solicitor, I dont think 
MCE received it. Overall, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MCE Insurance Company Limited must:
Pay Mr R the legal costs he incurred with B in relation to this matter for their work 
between 1 June 2019 and when MCE came on the record to act for him.
For any of these costs that Mr R has already paid to B, MCE should add 8% simple 
interest yearly. This should be calculated between the date Mr R made each 
payment to B and the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman