DRN-2886289
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society closed his credit account when he 
requested a new credit card and that they mixed his account details with those of his sons.
What happened
Mr M requested a new card for his credit account. However, instead of sending Mr M a new 
card, Nationwide closed his account. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ms complaint and agreed that an error had taken place. Nationwide 
apologised to Mr M and made a payment of £125 to Mr M by way of compensation.
However, it also transpired that Mr Ms son had received a response from Nationwide about 
Mr Ms complaint, and when Mr M discussed this with Nationwide it became apparent that 
Mr Ms account and his sons account were being confused by Nationwide, with information 
pertaining to Mr M being recorded on his sons account, and vice versa. Because of this, and 
because Mr M wasnt happy about the standard of service hed received from Nationwide in 
general during this time, Mr M made a further complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ms further complaint. They acknowledged that information from Mr 
Ms account and his sons account had been mixed, and they accepted that Mr M hadnt 
received the standard of service from Nationwide that they aspired to. So, they upheld Mr 
Ms complaint and made a further payment to Mr M of £150 for any upset and inconvenience 
he may have incurred.
Mr M didnt think that Nationwides response went far enough, so he referred his complaint 
to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Nationwide 
had acknowledged the errors that had taken place and that the compensation that theyd 
already paid to Mr M represented a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaints. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have been disappointing for Mr M to discover that Nationwide, 
rather than issuing a replacement credit card as he had asked, had instead closed his 
account. And I can further understand how it must have been concerning for Mr M to 
discover that Nationwide were confusing his own and his sons personal and account 
information in the way that Mr M describes.
In circumstances such as this - where a business has made errors about which a customer 
has had cause to complain - what this service would expect would be that the business 
would acknowledge those errors and take steps to ensure that similar errors wont be 
repeated. It would also be expected by this service that the business would apologise to the 
customer and make a payment of compensation to that customer for any trouble and upset 
that they might have experienced.
Having reviewed all the information on this case, I think that Nationwide have done that here. 
Their first complaint response confirmed that Mr Ms account had been closed as a result of 
human error, and that the staff member responsible had received feedback so that the 
appropriate lesson could be learned. Nationwide also apologised to Mr M and made a 
payment of £125 to compensate Mr M for the inconvenience hed incurred. 
With regard Mr Ms second complaint, Nationwide acknowledged that Mr Ms and his sons 
information had been mixed, and again explained that feedback had been provided to the 
appropriate Nationwide staff to mitigate the risk of the error being repeated. Nationwide also 
apologised to Mr M once again and made a further payment to Mr M of £150 to compensate 
him for any additional trouble or upset he might have experienced.
Im aware that Mr M may feel differently, but Nationwides responses here feel fair to me. 
And while I acknowledge that matters of compensation can be subjective, with offers of 
compensation considered as fair and reasonable by one party not being considered as such 
by someone else, the compensation payments that Nationwide have already made here, 
totalling £275, do feel fair and reasonable to me, and I must note that they are 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here.
I note that Mr M, in his correspondence with this service, has made particular reference to 
the mixing of his own and his sons data by Nationwide, and that he doesnt feel that 
Nationwides response has taken due account of the seriousness of that error.
I can appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling here, but I must inform that a more stringent 
review of this aspect of Mr Ms complaint lies outside the remit of this service, and Mr M may 
wish to consider referring this aspect of his complaint to the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO), who may be better placed to consider this matter in more detail.
However, I can confirm that, in line with this services role as a quick and informal dispute 
resolution service, I have considered Mr Ms complaint in its entirety with a view to assessing 
whether I feel that Nationwides responses to Mr Ms complaints are fair and reasonable, or 
whether further action or compensation might be warranted in this instance.
And, having done so, Im satisfied that the responses that Nationwide have already issued to 
Mr M have acknowledged the errors that Nationwide have made here and that they have 
resulted in appropriate payments of compensation to Mr M, given what has taken place. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but it follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding Mr M complaint or asking Nationwide to take any further 
action at this time. And I say this because Im satisfied that the responses that Nationwide 
have already issued to Mr M do represent a fair a reasonable outcome to Mr Ms complaints.
I hope that Mr M can understand, given everything that Ive explained above, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.            Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman