DRN-3778360
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) lent to him irresponsibly when it gave him a 
loan that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr S took out an unsecured loan for £11,500 with Lloyds in May 2014. He wanted the loan to 
pay off other debts and to pay for an education course. 
Mr S says that Lloyds failed to conduct sufficient checks on his individual financial position. 
He thinks Lloyds was negligent in allowing him to take the loan. He asks that Lloyds pay 
back all interest and any charges he paid and to pay him compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr S made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision. Mr S makes many detailed submissions, all of which I 
have read and considered. I will only refer to those points which are relevant specifically to 
the matter of whether Lloyds did anything wrong when it gave him the loan.
Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Ss income, the total amount Mr S borrowed, and the length of time Mr S 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
In Mr Ss case, he already had an existing relationship with Lloyds, so it was able to review 
the conduct of his account and establish whether it considered the loan repayments to be 
affordable. Mr S applied for the loan in person. Lloyds has a record of the conversation that 
took place when he applied for the loan. Mr S told Lloyds that he was working cash-in-hand 
and had an overall income of £34,680 a year including benefits. Mr S says that three 
advisers present at the time colluded to inflate Mr Ss income so that he would qualify for the 
loan. I have not seen any evidence to support this allegation. 
Lloyds has said that it would have conducted credit checks with an external agency. While it 
doesnt have a record of the results of the checks completed (which isnt unusual given the 
time which has passed) Lloyds says it wouldnt have approved Mr Ss loan if the checks had 
shown evidence of missed payments, defaults, arrears, bankruptcy or County Court 
Judgements. I have seen no other evidence to suggest Mr Ss credit file wouldnt have 
reflected this position. 
Lloyds asked Mr S about his income and some of his expenditure. It was reasonable for 
Lloyds to be able to rely on Mr Ss responses. Given his answers, Lloyds worked out that 
even with the loan repayments taken into account along with his rent, travel costs and other 
credit repayments, Mr S would have had over £1,200 available each month to cover his 
other living expenses such as utility bills and council tax. I think this would have comfortably 
covered his other expenses. 
Mr S told staff that he would be using the loan to consolidate other debts  his overdraft held 
with Lloyds and a credit card held with another business. He also said he would be paying 
for a college course which would take two years. 
Given the length of time since the loan application neither party has been able to provide 
evidence of Mr Ss financial situation at the time other than his bank statements. These dont 
show any significant payment towards other credit agreements or anything to suggest that 
the credit check Lloyds says it did at the time was incorrect. It does not reflect an income of 
£34,680 a year, but I dont find this surprising given Mr S told staff he was paid in cash and 
may not have put it all in this account. He told staff he worked in an industry where it is not 
unusual to receive payments in cash. When combined with credit checks which did not 
reveal any potential problems I am satisfied the decision to lend to Mr S was reasonable and 
the loan was affordable for his declared circumstances at the time.
I understand that a couple of years later Mr S became unwell and his financial 
circumstances deteriorated. But I dont think Lloyds could have foreseen this at the time of 
application.
In conclusion, I do not think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Mr S and 
so I do not think Mr S lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did wrong. It follows that I do not 
think Lloyds needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It follows that Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sally AllbeuryOmbudsman