DRN-3534924
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mrs and Mr H bought a timeshare membership from Business C in April 2007, after initially 
acquiring a trial membership in October 2006. The cost of the timeshare was £18,404 of 
which £12,809 was funded by a point of sale loan from GE Money. The loan was in joint 
names and it was set to run for fifteen years. GE Money says that the loan was repaid in 
full in July 2008 and it has provided evidence to support this.
In October 2020, Mrs and Mr H contacted GE Money to make claims under CCA Sections 
75 and 140a. Mrs and Mr H are represented, but for ease I will generally refer to them 
throughout this decision. Mrs and Mr H raised a number of issues about how Business C 
conducted the sale. They say, in summary, that:
- Business C mispresented important elements of how the product worked. And that but 
for these misrepresentations, they wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase.
- There were other issues with how the product was sold, including that they were put 
under undue pressure, that Business C breached various regulations and that the 
lending itself had been unaffordable.
GE Money didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that:
- It didnt have any liability under s.75 CCA because there werent the right sort of 
arrangements between the parties. In particular Mrs and Mr H had paid a different
company to the supplier and so the required debtor-creditor-supplier link had been
broken.
- Mrs and Mr H would need to approach Business C about the allegations to do with 
information provided by Business C at the point of sale. GE Money said this was 
because it didnt sell the product and wasnt present at the point of sale. It said that, as 
such, it couldnt investigate the complaint points fully and fairly.
- In terms of the other allegations, it said for the most part that the claims had been 
raised too late. This included reference to the Limitations Act 1980 (LA).
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They thought that the claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been 
brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the 
claim.
Mrs and Mr Hs representative disagreed. They said, in summary, that:
- Although Mrs and Mr H had been aware they werent receiving the services theyd 
been promised, they wouldnt have been aware they had an actionable claim until 
they took legal advice in 2017. In particular, they wouldnt have been aware that the 
duration of the contact meant it was illegal under Spanish law.
- Under section 32 LA, the limitation period can be postponed in cases involving 
concealment. There was deliberate concealment by Business C in relation to the 
purchase being unlawful. Business C also concealed the fact that members could 
exit their membership at any time by simply giving adequate notice.
- It was relying on the decision of the Court of Appeal in Canada Square Operations 
Ltd v Potter (2021) EWCA Civ 339.
GE Money didnt provide any comment in response to the adjudicators assessment.
I looked at the matter and issued a provisional decision in April 2022. In the decision, I 
said:
I want to assure Mrs and Mr H that, if I dont address every point thats been
raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been 
said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
GE Money has said that Mrs and Mr H would need to approach Business C about the 
allegations to do with information provided by Business C at the point of sale. However, I 
disagree. Under s.75 CCA, GE Money is required to consider claims for misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with 
information provided by the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale. S.140A is 
also relevant here.
However, for reasons that Ill go on to explain, I dont think this ultimately makes a difference 
to the outcome of this complaint.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mrs and Mr H to make a claim under
CCA?
There is an indication on file that GE Money has changed its position on this point since it 
issued the final response. But in any case, under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement is a precondition to a claim under that provision. The same agreement is 
needed for the timeshare contract to be considered under s.140A CCA. GE Money said in 
its final response that here there was no such agreement in this case, as the supplier of 
the timeshare was Business C, but the loan proceeds went to a different business, so no 
claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggested. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mrs and Mr Hs 
claim under s.75 and/or s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the 
supplier of the service (Business C) and the business that took the payment. But Ive not 
gone on to make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right 
relationships in place for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the
LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?Mrs and Mr H say that Business C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA and as such 
they have brought a like claim. But if GE Money could show the claim was brought 
outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any 
right that Mrs and Mr H may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a 
matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money acted fairly and 
reasonably in turning down Mrs and Mr Hs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be ordinarily brought under s.2(1) 
of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mrs and Mr Hs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against Business C or a like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare  
which was in in April 2007. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, 
they say, on the misrepresentations of Business C. And they say, had the 
misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. So, it was on 
that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the loan from GE Money.
Mrs and Mr Hs representative say that Mrs and Mr H wouldnt have been aware they had 
an actionable claim until they took legal advice in 2017. However, I dont find this 
persuasive. Mrs and Mr H wouldnt have needed to know every possible basis for why 
something may have gone wrong. Mrs and Mr Hs representative acknowledges that 
Mrs and Mr H wouldve known that theyd ended up with something different to what they 
say they thought they were getting, based on what they say they were told.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in April 2007. Mrs and Mr H had 
six years from then to make a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their 
claim until October 2020, which was outside of the time limits set out . So, I think GE Money 
acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
GE Money has provided evidence to show that Mrs and Mr Hs agreement was paid off 
in July 2008 and this isnt disputed.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran 
from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim 
was made. And as the limitation period is six years, Mrs and Mr H had to make their claim 
within six years of July 2008. As they didnt do that, I think theyre likely to have made their 
claim too late.
Ive thought about whether there is anything else that extends the time period under the 
LA. But having done this, I dont think there is. Mrs and Mr Hs representative says thats.32 LA applies, because there was some deliberate concealment by Business C in 
relation to the illegality of the timeshare agreement and also a members rights to exit the 
membership by giving notice.
S.32 LA states that in cases of fraud, concealment or mistake, the limitation period only 
starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or mistake (or could 
have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But Mrs and Mr Hs representative hasnt 
provided any detail about why it considers there was any concealment on Business Cs part 
and it hasnt explained how it thinks this applies to Mrs and Mr Hs claim that Business C 
misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare that would mean s.32 would apply. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I cant see that there was any fraud, concealment or 
mistake.
Mrs and Mr Hs representative has also said it is relying on the decision of the Court of 
Appeal in Canada Square Operations Ltd v Potter (2021) EWCA Civ 339. It hasnt said 
how or why it thinks this is relevant to the facts of Mrs and Mr Hs case. Having read the 
judgement, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this case in terms of the 
extent to which s.32 is a material factor.
As Ive already said, its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mrs and Mr H may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mrs and Mr H might have 
against the supplier and/or GE Money most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the 
LA. I think it is reasonable to take that into account. And as a result, I am not persuaded
that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mrs and Mr H say they werent able to afford the loan and that there was no assessment of 
their creditworthiness before the loan was granted. However, Mrs and Mr H have provided 
very little detail about this particular allegation. And even if I were to find GE Money didnt
do everything that it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), 
in order to uphold this complaint on that basis, Id have to be satisfied that the lending 
was unaffordable for Mrs and Mr H and that they lost out as a result.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mrs and Mr H had any affordability issues during 
the life of this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to meet the loan 
repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. 
So, there is insufficient evidence for me to uphold this complaint for this reason.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint about GE Money
Consumer Lending Limited.
I gave both parties until 26 May 2022 to provide any further comments and evidence. 
Neither party provided anything further and so Ive proceeded to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I still dont uphold this complaint. Since neither party has provided any 
response to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
As such, I still find that GE Moneys decision to turn down the claims under s.75 and s.140 A 
CCA wasnt unfair, because I think both claims are likely to have been made too late under 
the LA.
And in respect of unaffordable lending, I still havent seen any evidence to show that 
Mrs and Mr H had any affordability issues during the life of this loan. All in all, there is 
insufficient evidence for me to uphold this complaint for this reason. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman