DRN-3597763
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the refusal to increase their mortgage lending, made by
Santander UK Plc. They said that Santander had confused the roles that they had, and
penalised them for payments they had never received.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H wanted to increase their mortgage lending, to cover renovations to their home. 
They said Santander initially appeared to be positive about this. But then it told them it 
wouldnt increase their lending. 
Mr and Mrs H told us Santander said theyd received furlough payments. But they hadnt. 
They said the company they work for, which they also own, had received modest payments 
for employee furlough, because they had decided to furlough the employment part of their 
roles. And Santander had turned them down for additional lending because of this. But they 
said Santander was lending to them as self-employed persons, and their self-employed work 
continued. Mr and Mrs H said that Santander appeared to be applying an employed rule to a 
self-employed application.
Mr and Mrs H said they were shocked when Santander then offered them a new deal on 
their existing mortgage, when their current fixed rate was ending. They decided to take their 
business elsewhere, but they said this incurred very large fees, which they werent warned 
about.
Santander didnt accept that it had made a mistake. It said the bank statements Mr H had 
sent it for the business confirmed his company had received three credits from the Job 
Retention Scheme (JRS). And the file notes confirmed Mr and Mrs H had furloughed 
themselves. Santander said its underwriters had considered everything Mr and Mrs H had 
told it, but its current policy required three months bank statements or three months of 
trading without JRS, where this relates to a director.
Santander said it had understood at the start of the application process that Mr and Mrs H 
hadnt taken any grants or utilised any support for their business, but the evidence they 
supplied during the application process contradicted this. Santander said it had applied its 
own lending policy, and it didnt think it had treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly.
Santander said it had properly notified Mr and Mrs H that there was an early redemption 
charge (ERC) on their mortgage when they took it out. And as this mortgage was then 
redeemed in the period when an ERC was still payable, Santander didnt think it made a 
mistake by charging this fee. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that increasing the 
amount of lending would mean Santander would have to make a fresh assessment of 
affordability for Mr and Mrs H. She thought Santander had carefully considered everything 
and fairly declined the application. Mr and Mrs Hs business was in receipt of JRS credits, 
which suggests their business was impacted by the pandemic and needed financial 
assistance or support to pay its employees. She noted Santander had offered to reconsider 
if Mr and Mrs H showed it three months of statements without government assistance.
Our investigator said Santander hadnt treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in declining their 
application for further borrowing. She said that when Mr and Mrs H decided to redeem their 
mortgage instead, they paid an ERC. Its standard that a fixed interest rate product comes 
with an ERC. Mr and Mrs H had agreed to this charge, then triggered it by redeeming the 
mortgage while it was still payable.
Our investigator said she appreciated that Mr and Mrs H felt Santander forced them into an 
impossible position as their fixed rate was coming to an end and so they had to either take 
out a new deal with Santander or move to a new lender. But she didnt think she could ask 
Santander to pay for their losses, or refund the ERC.
Mr H replied, saying he didnt understand why our investigator had decided this. He said 
Santander had misled us. He told us he passed affordability based solely on his self-
employed income. Mr H felt Santander should have explained to them that they could go 
ahead with their remortgage and could just look elsewhere for the additional lending, which 
would have saved them the cost of the ERC. Mr H said that income to the business never 
reduced. And he said if it would have been irresponsible to lend them more, then why were 
they able to get the lending they wanted elsewhere with no difficulty. Were we saying their 
new lender was irresponsible?
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said Santander had declined to make an offer. 
She couldnt say it had made an error.
Mr H wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr and Mrs H were very concerned that Santander had misinterpreted their position. 
But I dont think it has. Santander does appear to me to have understood that most of 
the income Mr and Mrs H receive isnt a salary. They have drawn a modest salary from 
the limited company which they own, but the majority of their income comes in the 
form of dividends paid to them by this limited company.
When Santander asked about grants or other government support received by this 
limited company, it does seem to me that it was trying to reach a decision on whether 
this company had been adversely affected by the pandemic, or was likely to be 
affected going forward.
Mr H said Santander was initially very positive about the prospects of additional 
mortgage lending. I think this may have been because Santander does appear initially 
to have understood that Mr and Mrs Hs company hadnt received any such grants or 
government support. It then expressed concerns when it discovered that the company 
had received this support, and it reached the conclusion that it wouldnt offer Mr and 
Mrs H any additional lending until it could see that their limited company had operated 
for three months without such support.
I think that Santander has followed its own lending policies here, and I think it has 
been clear about the reasons for its decision, as well as what Mr and Mrs H could do to ask it to change its mind. I dont think its been unfair or unreasonable in its 
assessments, or how it has communicated with Mr and Mrs H.
Mr H said they were very surprised to be offered a new fixed rate on the existing 
lending, just after being turned down for additional lending. But I think Santander was 
clear when it discussed this with Mr H, that it was assessing this on a different basis. It 
asked Mr H for reassurances that his and Mrs Hs financial position hadnt changed, 
but it wasnt carrying out a full income and affordability assessment. Santander did 
explain to Mr H that if it was looking at any new lending, it would need to look at their 
financial position in much more depth.
Mr and Mrs H also said they ended up paying a very large ERC because they moved 
their mortgage. Santander has shown our service that Mr and Mrs H were properly 
notified of the ERC on their mortgage in 2019 when they took out their existing fixed 
rate deal, and that this was also noted on their annual statements, along with the date 
that the ERC expired. So I think that Santander was entitled to charge this.
Mr and Mrs H also said they shouldnt have had to pay the ERC. He thought 
Santander should have told them to continue their existing mortgage, and to seek 
other lending elsewhere for the additional amount only, because that would be 
cheaper.
I should start by saying that Im not clear that this would have been a better option for 
Mr and Mrs H, as a second mortgage or secured loan taken with a different lender 
would often incur much higher interest rates. But even if it was, I dont think Santander 
was obliged to proactively suggest this to Mr H. And it doesnt appear, from the contact 
notes that Ive seen, that Mr H sought advice from Santander on how best to manage 
his overall lending needs.
I know that Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed, but I dont think Santander has done 
anything wrong. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it agreed with my provisional decision, and it had nothing to add. 
Mr H didnt agree. He sent a detailed reply, on behalf of himself and Mrs H. As Mr H phrased 
his comments in the first person singular, I will mainly adopt his format, and refer to him.
Mr H said he thought Id made the same mistake that Santander had, in reaching my 
decision, and that I didnt understand the intricate specifics of his situation. 
Mr H said he didnt just decide to ask for more lending. He said he was told by the Santander 
broker that he was going to have to move his mortgage, as he was coming to the end of the 
term. He would either have to revert to base rate, port away to a competitor or request a new 
rate. He said that this was instigated by the company who brokered the original mortgage 
with Santander. I note Mr H says he was told this by his broker. But this complaint is against Santander, and 
I can only consider what Santander has told Mr H. Ive not seen anything to make me think 
Santander had ever told Mr H he had to move his mortgage elsewhere. And I can see that it 
offered him a new fixed rate on his existing borrowing. 
Mr H said he asked for extra borrowing, to cover the cost of renovations. And he said he was 
told Santander refused to lend to him at all. So he repeated that he was told he would need 
to move his mortgage, and was never told he could stay with Santander if he kept the 
lending the same. Mr H said if hed been told that he would have stayed with Santander and 
looked elsewhere for money to pay for the home improvements.
Mr H also said he was never told he would incur an ERC when he redeemed the mortgage 
with Santander. He accepted that Santander had mentioned this when he initially took out 
the lending, but repeated that in 2021 he thought he had no other option but to leave. He 
thought that until after he left Santander, when it then offered to replace his mortgage 
borrowing without any financial checks.
Ive listened to a call Mr H had with Santander on 5 August 2021. I think that on this call, 
Santander was clear that Mr H could have a new rate for his existing lending. I dont think 
Santander told Mr H he had to take his business elsewhere. There was no suggestion of this 
on this call. Rather, Santander was setting up a new rate for Mr Hs existing lending. 
Mr H also said this offer for a new fix on his existing lending was only made after hed moved 
his lending. But Mr Hs mortgage wasnt redeemed until the end of August. So this call was 
done while Mr H had a mortgage in place with Santander. And if Mr H was already exploring 
other mortgage options elsewhere at this point, Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Santander knew this. Mr H didnt say that on this call.
Mr H said that when Santander offered a new rate fix, it didnt even care if he was still in 
employment. I think Santander did explain on this call that it didnt do full income and 
affordability checks when it was just putting in place a new rate for existing lending. But it 
also asked if Mr and Mrs H were experiencing any financial problems, and also whether 
either of them was expecting any changes to income or employment status, that might affect 
its recommendation. 
Mr H insisted he had never been furloughed. He explained the reasons behind this in detail. 
But I dont think any loss of employment income to Mr or Mrs H was key to Santanders 
decision. I think Santander understood where the majority of Mr and Mrs Hs income came 
from  company dividends paid to them by the company they own. And it refused additional 
lending because of coronavirus grants received by that company. 
Mr H said Santander wasnt lending to his company. I recognise this. But because 
Santander had understood that most of Mr and Mrs Hs income came from dividends paid by 
that company, I think its reasonable for Santander to consider the financial position of that 
company, when it was deciding whether to lend Mr and Mrs H extra money. 
Mr H said that Santander had suggested hed lied. He took this very seriously. He said 
neither he nor Mrs H received any grant or a payment from the JRS  that was true. And he 
said that if Santanders lending policy was that companies had to have traded for three 
months without JRS payments, that should have been mentioned at the start. 
I said in my provisional decision that Santander had initially understood there had been no 
JRS payments or other grants. Santanders notes of its initial discussions with Mr H about the extra lending include, on 4 
May, a note of the question Has business been trading without assistance for at least the 
last 3 months? and the answer yes. The notes then say that if the business bank 
statements show any form of government assistance in the last 3 months, or do not show 
the business as trading for a full 3 month period, then Santander cant use that income at the 
moment. 
Then on 28 May, the notes say Mr H told Santanders agent that he and Mrs H hadnt taken 
any loans, grants or tax referral, but had furloughed themselves. 
Mr H says he hadnt taken a government grant, but all sides accept that his company had 
been paid JRS. Thats clear from his companys bank statements.
I think Santanders own notes show that it had always considered the payment of 
government coronavirus grants (including JRS) to a company, to be an obstacle to lending. It 
doesnt appear to have raised this with Mr H at first. I think thats simply because Santander 
had understood that his company hadnt received such grants. 
This may just have been a misunderstanding. However, I should also say that Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that this misunderstanding would be Santanders fault.
I understand Mr Hs point that the majority of his income continued to flow during the 
pandemic. I dont think Im able to accept entirely his position that he and Mrs H werent 
furloughed. Thats because of the payment of JRS to their company, and indeed because of 
their acceptance that they were furloughed for a very small part of their regular work, the part 
which was done under a contract of employment. However, I still dont think this was key to 
Santanders decision.
Mr H was adamant that he would pass a test of affordability. I dont doubt his view here, but I 
think Santander was entitled, in the particular circumstances of the pandemic, to seek 
reassurances about the financial stability of his company, where that company was the 
primary source of income to repay lending it was making.
Mr H has told us that his income could have been paid in other ways. I dont think Santander 
had to consider that Mr H had other options to structure his remuneration, when it was 
deciding whether to extend his mortgage lending.
Mr H said that the three months of company statements showing trading without grants that 
Santander asked for could have been provided, but this would have taken him over his fixed 
term with Santander. I dont think thats quite right.
Mr H was told that Santander needed three months of company statements without grants, 
in a letter from Santander dated 27 June. He had supplied statements showing that his 
company received JRS payments on 1 March, 1 April and 27 April 2021. Mr H said these 
payments then stopped. So Mr H could presumably have used company statements for May, 
June and July 2021 as part of his mortgage application. Mr Hs existing fixed term with 
Santander didnt end until 2 November 2021. So I havent seen anything to make me think 
Mr H was prevented from asking Santander to reconsider its decision on additional lending.
Mr H said his company hadnt been adversely affected by the pandemic, and he could have 
proved this. But I think Santander has shown that his company (from which the majority of 
his income is drawn, in dividends) didnt meet its lending criteria at that time. I dont think 
Santander had to waive those criteria for Mr H. Mr H said he was very frustrated with my suggestion that when Santander made an offer to 
replace the borrowing after the event it was under different circumstances. He said that 
affordability is either an issue or it isnt. 
I understand Mr H has strong feelings on this point, but as I sought to explain in my 
provisional decision, Santander is in a very different situation when it looks at existing 
lending, to when its asked to lend more. If Santander has affordability concerns about 
existing lending, its options are somewhat limited. It cannot just ask existing customers to 
give back all the money that it has already lent, and which they have used to purchase a 
house. But it can decide not to lend more. So I still think the two situations arent 
comparable. 
Mr H still didnt think the ERC was fair. I have explained why I disagree. He still thought he 
should have been told that he could keep his existing lending with Santander and apply 
elsewhere for additional borrowing. I have explained why I didnt think Santander had to 
suggest this to Mr H, and also that I didnt think this would necessarily have been good 
advice. 
Mr H said I was wrong to say that moving his mortgage would have attracted higher fees 
automatically. He said he would have preferred to keep the existing borrowing with 
Santander and get the additional borrowing from his new bank, as they were very similar 
rates.
Mr H currently has one mortgage, covering all of his lending. I would expect this to be at a 
broadly comparable rate to his previous lending. However, if Mr H had taken two separate 
mortgages, one with Santander and a second elsewhere, then he would have had two 
separate mortgages, with two charges over his property. And the reason I said this may not 
have been a better option for Mr H, is that rates for second mortgages are generally rather 
higher, to reflect that the second lender only has the second charge over the property. Any 
monies released by the sale of a house are used to pay the first charge in full, before the 
second chargeholder will receive any payment. So that second mortgage involves a higher 
risk for a lender, and usually costs more as a result of this.
Mr H said if I didnt intend to uphold his complaint, I should let him know what his options 
were. He said he didnt intend to let this go. He said he wanted to take this to a lawyer and 
his MP. 
This complaint has now reached the last stage in our services consideration  my final 
decision. If Mr and Mrs H dont accept my decision, then it isnt binding either on them or 
Santander. They are of course free to raise this in any other forum they wish. Unfortunately, 
we cannot assist Mr and Mrs H further.
I have considered Mr Hs further arguments, but I havent changed my mind. Ill now make 
the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman