DRN-2245735
The complaint
Mr & Mrs M are unhappy that their TSB Bank plc Credit Builder loan account ran for three 
months longer than what they believed was the scheduled completion date. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a loan with TSB in April 2013. The loan was for seven years and had 
monthly repayments of approximately £380. 
Mr and Mrs M were of the understanding that the loan would be repaid in full by April 2020. 
However, after receiving an annual loan statement in April 2020, Mr and Mrs M became 
aware that this wasnt the case, and that three more loan payments remained outstanding.
Mr and Mrs M contacted TSB who explained that the first three payments of the loan had 
been deferred as the loan was a borrow-now-pay-later loan, and that this was the reason 
that three loan payments remained outstanding. Mr and Mrs M said that they were unaware 
of this and had planned their retirement around the date which they thought the loan would 
end. This mean they couldnt afford the to make the three remaining loan repayments.
Mrs and Mrs M contacted TSB but were not satisfied with the response they received and so 
they raised a complaint. TSB issued a final response to this complaint on 28 April 2020, but 
this letter wasnt received by Mr and Mrs M. The letter advised that TSB were not upholding 
the complaint as they were satisfied that Mr and Mrs M had agreed to the loans terms and 
conditions. TSB also noted that Mr and Mrs M had benefitted from the full amount of the loan 
and so TSB felt that it was fair that Mr and Mrs M should pay back the full agreed amount.
To help Mr & Mrs M with their financial difficulties, TSB offered a three-month repayment 
holiday and also offered to carry out an income and expenditure assessment to determine 
what Mr and Mrs M could afford to repay, but Mr and Mrs M declined both of these options.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept TSBs complaint response and referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at this case, but they agreed with TSBs position that the 
terms of the loan had been sufficiently clear and that TSB had acted appropriately when they 
learned of Mr and Mrs Ms financial difficulties, so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. Mr and Mrs M have repaid the loan in full now but would like the final three 
loan repayments reimbursed to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons, so I also wont be asking TSB to take any further action here. I will explain 
why Ive reached this decision below.
I realise that Mr and Mrs M dont feel that they should have to make the final three payments 
to the loan because the loan ran beyond the date which they believed it would end. But, 
where a customer has borrowed money from a business, it's nearly always going to be the 
case that it's fair they pay this back - in line with the terms that were agreed  and I think 
that's the case here. 
TSB has done enough to satisfy me that Mr and Mrs M agreed to the terms of the loan, 
including the deferral of the first three payments. I say this because the loan agreement 
confirms that the loan comprised of 84 payments over an 87-month term. TSB have also 
confirmed that the terms of the loan would have been explained to Mr and Mrs M at the point 
of sale by the advisor, and the documents which TSB have supplied, which include the 
Personal Loan Checklist as referenced by our investigator, support this. 
I also feel that it is significant that Mr and Mrs M did not question why, having agreed to the 
loan, that no repayments were taken from their account for the first three months. The fact 
that theres no record of them questing this suggests that they understood the situation 
around these payments at the time that the loan was agreed.
A seven-year loan term is a significant amount of time, and while I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs M may not now recall that the loan repayments were initially deferred by three months, 
there is nothing in the account documents or the wider circumstances of this case that 
causes me to think that TSB did anything inappropriate or unfair in either deferring these 
payments or in how they communicated this fact to Mr and Mrs M.
I must also explain that, as briefly touched upon above, even if I were to find in Mr and Mrs 
Ms favour on this point, it is unlikely that I would agree that Mr and Mrs M would not have to 
make the final three repayments. This is because Mr and Mrs M have benefitted from the full 
balance of the loan, and so its fair that they pay the full agreed amount back to TSB. What I 
might consider, if I were to uphold this complaint, is whether TSB should agree to a 
repayment plan over a longer term, to assist Mr and Mrs M in making repayments which are 
affordable to them.
In this instance I can see that TSB have already offered an extended repayment term to Mr 
and Mrs M, and they made this offer because Mr and Mrs M said that they were in financial 
difficulties. This is what I would expect TSB to do in these circumstances, but Mr and Mrs M 
decided not to accept this offer, and the loan has now been fully repaid. Ultimately, I am 
satisfied that TSB responded to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint appropriately, and I wont be 
asking TSB to do anything further in this instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman