DRN-2670980
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lowell Financial Ltd are chasing him for a debt he says he doesnt 
owe to them.
What happened
In 2020, Mr Bs credit card account was sold from the original creditor to Lowell. Lowell wrote 
to Mr B to let him know that theyd bought the debt, and that theyd like to work out 
repayments which were affordable for him.
Mr B sent Lowell a series of letters which attempted to dispute the legal basis of the debt, 
and which asked for certain documents.
Lowell explained their legal position and sent Mr B the documents they were required to, 
such as the credit agreement and statement of account. And theyd already sent him the 
notice of assignment. But Mr B said he wanted the deed of assignment, and he felt that 
without it, Lowell could not prove he owed them any money.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Lowell had sent the appropriate documents to show they owned the debt, and 
they didnt have to send Mr B a deed of assignment.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he hadnt signed any contract with Lowell, and he felt pressured 
and harassed by them. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B would like to make sure he really does owe the money to Lowell, 
as he wouldnt want to pay the wrong company.
Mr Bs correspondence made some arguments about the enforceability of this debt. Whether 
or not the debt is legally enforceable is a matter for a court to decide  thats not something 
I have the power to determine. But I would warn Mr B that if something seems too good to 
be true, it often is, and Id be wary of websites or forums that make big promises about 
clearing debts using obscure legal arguments. I would strongly recommend that Mr B seeks 
legal advice from a properly qualified person before attempting to use any of these same 
arguments in a court.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence, including Mr Bs signed credit agreement, the 
statement of account showing his previous transactions, and the notice of assignment. I can 
see that the account references match, and the original creditor wrote to confirm theyd sold 
Mr Bs account to Lowell. And theres no compelling evidence which shows that this is not 
Mr Bs debt. Im satisfied it is his. So I think its fair that Lowell are chasing him for it.
I can understand if theres been some confusion for Mr B, as from his perspective his 
contract was with the original creditor, and he didnt sign a new one. But debts can and do 
get sold on  its quite normal. And there was no requirement for him to sign a new contract 
with Lowell. Lowell bought the debt from the original creditor legitimately, and that means 
that Mr B now owes the money to Lowell instead of the original creditor. 
Lowell sent the relevant notice of assignment, which I think is sufficient to show that they 
now own the account. Its not clear why Mr B also wants to see the deed of assignment, 
which is a private document between Lowell and the original debt owner. The deed contains 
sensitive information between Lowell and the original creditor, but would not contain 
anything Mr B needs to see, and Lowell do not have any obligation to provide the deed to 
him. So I think its reasonable that they havent.
I dont think Lowell have communicated with Mr B excessively or unreasonably. It looks like 
theyve honoured his request to deal with things in writing, and they gave him the information 
they were supposed to. I think its reasonable for Lowell to ask Mr B to pay back the debt he 
now owes them. And Ive not seen anything in the content, tone, or frequency of their 
communication that seems inappropriate. For example, their opening letter to Mr B set out 
that they knew dealing with debts could be stressful, that theyd listen and not judge, that 
theyd be happy to give Mr B time to work things out, and that they only wanted payments 
that were affordable for him. That seems very reasonable to me.
I hope I can reassure Mr B that it is quite normal for debts to be bought like this, and that 
Lowell still have a duty to deal with him appropriately. He might want to get back in touch 
with Lowell to see what assistance they can offer him in repaying the money he owes. Ive 
also sent Mr B the details for charities who can give him free advice and help in dealing with 
debts. And he can always get back in touch with our service as a separate complaint if he 
later feels that Lowell arent taking his situation into account when working out how to repay 
the debt. 
But as things stand now, I think Lowell have acted fairly, and I think its reasonable for them 
to ask Mr B to repay the money he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman