DRN-1672251
 
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund two online transactions she said 
she didnt make.
What happened
In November 2018, Miss B asked Santander to transfer money from her savings account to 
another account. To her surprise, the balance in her savings account was lower than 
expected. She found out there had been two online transfers for £2,500 and £4,000 on 14 
March 2016 and 20 October 2017 respectively. There were also multiple direct debit 
payments from her current account. 
Santander also told her that it had received mortgage and credit card applications in her 
name in 2017. Miss B said she knew nothing about these applications.
Miss B raised a fraud complaint with Santander. She told the bank shed been the victim of 
identity fraud by her ex-boyfriend, who had opened various accounts in her name with other 
businesses. She explained that shed asked him to help her set up online banking in 2015. 
She said shed suspected he was taking money from her, which is why she left him.
Santander refunded the direct debit payments and cancelled the mortgage application. It 
closed the credit card account and removed it from her credit file.
However, Santander decided not to refund the two online transactions. 
It said it wasnt obliged to refund the first transaction for £2,500. This was because Miss B 
didnt raise her concerns within 13 months of the date of the transaction, as required by the 
account terms and conditions.
It didnt refund the second transaction for £4,000 because shed shared her banking details 
with her ex-boyfriend, giving him access to her account. Santander said it had always sent 
the one-time passcode (OTP) to the mobile phone number on file, which was her ex 
boyfriends phone number. Miss B had used OTPs received at this number for non-disputed 
transactions. 
Santander concluded it hadnt made any errors and had no reasons to suspect fraud. 
However, it paid her £100 as a goodwill gesture for the number of times she had to visit a 
branch to sort out the problems.
Miss B wasnt happy with Santanders decision, so she asked us to investigate. She also 
complained about a credit card account, which was opened in 2015. She said she didnt 
open it and wanted Santander to remove it from her credit file.
An investigator looked into her complaint.  He concluded that Miss B hadnt authorised the 
transactions, but he didnt uphold her complaint. He said it was fair for Santander to refuse a refund of the first transaction because Miss B raised her complaint outside the 13 months 
rule. 
With regards to the second transaction, he concluded that Miss B had shared her banking 
details with her ex boyfriend, in breach of the account terms and conditions, and 
consequently, Santander were entitled to hold her liable.
He didnt ask Santander to amend Miss Bs credit file because there was no evidence to 
suggest it was opened fraudulently. Besides, there was no negative information on her credit 
file.
Miss B disagreed with the investigators view. She maintains that she didnt authorise the 
transactions and that she has been careful with her banking details. She said she always 
logged in to online banking from the browser on her phone.  She believes that we have 
wrongly applied the industry guidance and relevant regulations. 
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Miss B and Santander have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my 
decision. However, I can assure Miss B that Ive read the file, including her detailed 
response to the view.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
13 months rule
The first issue I need to deal with is the 13 months rule.
The relevant regulations, (the Payment Services Regulations 2009) state that:
 (1) A payment service user is entitled to redress, only if it notifies the payment service 
provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date, 
on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction.
Very briefly, this means that Miss B  is only entitled to a refund if she notified Santander 
about the disputed payment immediately and no later than 13 months after the payment left 
her account.
In this case, the disputed payment left her account on 14 March 2016. Miss D didnt raise 
her concerns with Santander until 10 November 2018. Im afraid that, under the relevant 
regulations, Santander isnt obliged to refund the first disputed transaction for £2,500.
Second transaction for £4,000Generally, Santander can hold Miss B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised it; or, if with intent or 
gross negligence, she failed to take all reasonable steps to keep her personalised security 
features safe.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the transaction was authenticated by the 
banks procedures for online banking. In other words, that the log in details, password, 
memorable information and OTP were entered to make it. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Santander to hold her liable. I also need to consider if Miss B consented to the payment. 
On balance, I dont think Miss B consented to the payment because:
her ex-boyfriend knew her online banking details and had access to her account
hed opened accounts in her name with other businesses
a new address was registered on her account but inquiries revealed she had no 
connections with the new address
the new address and the ex-boyfriends phone number were given in the mortgage 
and credit card applications and so he is linked to the new address
she didnt know the payees 
a woman claiming to be Miss B telephoned Santander to query a blocked online 
transfer for £6,400 on 13 November 2018.  Ive listened to this call and those made 
by Miss B. Although the caller could answer the security questions, (with some 
hesitation), I dont think she sounded like Miss B and she mispronounced the 
forename. 
there was no reason why Miss B would attempt a transfer to a third party knowing her 
account had been blocked. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied Miss B didnt authorise the disputed transaction for £4,000.
Unfortunately for Miss B, the regulations also state that, even where a transaction is 
unauthorised, Santander can still hold her liable if she has, with intent or gross negligence, 
failed to take all reasonable steps to keep her personalised security features safe. 
Also, under the account terms and conditions, Miss B was obliged to change her details if 
she was aware that a third party knew the information.
From what Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Santander to conclude that Miss B failed with 
intent to keep her bank details safe. This is because:
she shared her banking details with her ex-boyfriend when she asked him to set up 
online banking
shed authorised genuine transactions using OTPs, which Santander sent to his 
number, so she must have known his mobile phone number was registered to 
receive OTPs
she must have asked him for the OTPs so that she could complete transactions
and, crucially, she didnt change the details when she left him.
Ive also considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Understandably, Miss B is upset. Someone she once trusted has stolen a significant amount 
of her savings and that must hurt. She feels strongly that she hasnt done anything wrong. I 
sympathise with her situation.
I dont think its unusual for a customer to ask a close friend or family member for help in 
setting up online banking. However, a customer is expected to change their security details. And Miss B didnt ask the bank to change the mobile phone number or any other details on 
the account, not even after shed left her boyfriend, even though she knew the OTPs were 
being sent to his number. 
Also, Miss B had logged on to her online account and made genuine payments nine times 
between June 2016 and April 2017. She ought to have noticed the lower balance on the 
account and the disputed transaction, but she didnt raise any concerns.
Ultimately, the ex-boyfriend stole this money from her. As Santander had his mobile number 
for the OTPs, and she didnt change it, then I cant agree that it should have suspected fraud 
or anything unusual. Moreover, there were genuine transactions between to the two disputed 
ones and she didnt raise any concerns for at least a year.
In these circumstances, I consider that Santanders decision was fair and reasonable.
credit card application
Miss B has complained about a credit card account which was opened in 2015. She said she 
didnt open this account. It is still showing on her credit file.
I understand Santander says that the application includes details for her which it believes 
were correct, e.g. her date of birth, address, employers details. Anyone close to her would 
know this information and especially a partner. The application also has the ex-boyfriends 
phone number as her home and work number and an email address which she has always 
disputed as being hers.
Im satisfied theres sufficient evidence that the ex-boyfriend opened accounts in her name 
with other businesses and set up direct debits on her Santander account. So, its also likely 
he applied for the credit card without her knowledge and consent. I understand the card 
wasnt used and so Santander doubts that it was a fraudulent application. However, this 
doesnt mean Miss B applied for it.
On balance, I dont think Miss B applied for the credit card. I realise there is no negative 
information in Miss Bs file but Im still asking Santander to remove this from her credit file.
Im very sorry to send such disappointing news. I know this isnt the outcome Miss B wanted. 
But I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint about the disputed transactions.
I'm upholding Miss B's complaint about the credit card account opened in 2015. I am asking 
Santander UK plc to remove it from Miss Bs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman