DRN-3665622
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave him a credit card that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2007, Mr R applied for and was given a credit card account with Barclaycard. The 
credit Limit increased seven times until it reached £11,400 by August 2016. The credit 
limit decreased in November 2018. 
In 2019, Mr R complained to Barclaycard that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a better 
effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr R didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Rs complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it determined the amount of credit it was able to offer Mr R, 
based in part on information provided by Mr R. Subsequent lending decisions took into 
account Mr Rs management of his account, his management of other credit with Barclays 
and the details of his other borrowings (and his management of those) provided by a credit 
research agency. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the lending 
decisions. 
Its possible that Barclaycard failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr R with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Barclaycard to 
think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr R told Barclaycard that he earned a good salary. Mr Rs bank 
statements show that Mr Rs account enjoyed an income that was both regular and not 
modest. And the statements suggest that whatever other monthly commitments Mr R may 
have had for other credit, the total income each month was roughly the same as his 
monthly expenditure. 
And the credit reports I have seen show no CCJs or defaults in the years before the sale. 
So, there was little or nothing from Mr Rs handling of his existing credit to suggest that 
further lending was automatically unreasonable. And Barclaycard have explained that Mr 
Rs management of his account provided little suggestion of financial difficulty. They said 
that Mr R never missed a monthly payment and his payments were not all at the minimum 
level, often they were for more than the minimum payment. And, for the most part, Mr R 
didnt exceed his credit limits. So, there was insufficient evidence for Barclaycard to think 
that any of its lending decisions were unreasonable. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Barclaycard at the time it made their 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. Mr R did not make Barclaycard aware of his 
financial difficulties until after the last lending decision. And I have seen insufficient evidence 
that the other information that Barclaycard acquired or had presented to them at the time of 
the lending decisions, would have led them to think that they were lending in an 
unreasonable manner. 
I know that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. I have read that Mr R thinks this 
complaint should also be upheld because he has had other complaints upheld. But the 
merits of each individual complaint are decided on the particular details of each complaint. 
I want Mr R to know that I was sorry to hear of the issues he has, and continues to, face. 
But I want Mr R to know that I considered all the submissions made in this case. And having 
considered all the submissions in this case, particularly those concerning the time of the 
lending decisions, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman