DRN-3162887
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was unable to make a payment from his Barclays Bank UK PLC 
account.
What happened
Mr A says on 18 May 2021 he was unable to make a payment from his Barclays account to 
pay his auto mechanic. He says that caused him significant distress and anxiety worrying 
about how he would be able to pay his bill. Mr A would like compensation for what took place 
and says his complaint was not dealt with.
Barclays says it was unable to complete the payment due to technical difficulties, but other 
payment methods were available to Mr A. It says the payment for £40 was made that day 
but accepts it gave Mr A poor service. Barclays has offered £50 compensation for that part 
of the complaint.
Mr A had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought that the compensation 
offer appropriate for the service part of the complaint. The investigator didnt think Mr A 
suffered a financial loss as the payment was made that day and thought alternative methods 
of paying the bill were available.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says the compensation doesnt go far enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate that due to technical problems on 18 May 2021 Mr A was unable to make the 
payment for £40 by his chosen method. But I think it likely alternative methods of paying his 
bill were available and that the bill was able to be paid that same day. I dont think Mr A 
suffered any financial loss and think that on occasions certain payment methods may be 
unavailable. I dont think the unavailability of one type of banking had any real significance 
here and cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for this type of problem in circumstances 
where it may not have had any control over the problem.
I also appreciate that Barclays could have dealt with Mr As complaint more appropriately but 
can see Barclays has fairly apologised for that and offered what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer of £50. I will of course leave it to Mr A to decide if he wishes 
to accept that offer as it would be in full and final settlement of this complaint if he decides to 
accept it. I dont think that was the main part of the complaint in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman