DRN-3580519
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt credited her account with the £500 
she deposited using an ATM machine.
What happened
Mrs D has provided context for the cash she kept at home and explained that she decided to 
deposit her old style £20 notes when she became aware these were being replaced. She 
says that she deposited £500 using an ATM at a named Nationwide branch  she 
remembers entering her card, PIN, and amount, then putting the cash in the envelope 
provided and depositing it. 
Mrs D initially couldnt remember the exact date and couldnt find the receipt from the time, 
but she thought it was during the first national lockdown in 2020. She complained when her 
account was not credited with this amount. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, it said there was no record of Mrs Ds card being 
used to deposit funds other than three occasions where the amount deposited had been 
credited to her account.
More recently (in 2022), Mrs D has confirmed she thinks she deposited the funds on 24 April 
2020. She and her husband attended a hospital appointment earlier that day which they 
found a record of in their diaries. 
Nationwide only had access to limited information for that date given the time thats past and 
say the way it stores this information has changed. But it says the information they do have 
doesnt support Mrs D having made the deposit.
When Mrs D brought her complaint to our service, the investigator didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Mrs D didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I want to assure Mrs D that if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Nationwide says it hasnt made an error and that the information on its systems doesnt 
support Mrs Ds assertion that she made a deposit of £500. So, Ive considered whether 
Nationwide has acted fairly in reaching this conclusion.
When Mrs D initially raised the matter, she wasnt sure what date shed deposited the funds 
and she didnt have her receipt to confirm this. So, Nationwide checked its records for 
Mrs Ds card number against its deposit records and they were all accounted for. Nationwide 
has also said its journal roll was searched at the time for Mrs Ds card number and there 
was no footprint for the date period referenced. Whilst Mrs D has now provided a more 
specific date, Nationwide isnt able to provide further evidence due to the time thats passed. 
I dont think its unreasonable that Nationwide hasnt been able to provide all the evidence 
we might usually want to see given the time thats passed and the initial lack of a clear date 
of the deposit. But Im satisfied that Nationwide did check the relevant information at the time 
based on the information it had, and I agree that the evidence we do have doesnt support 
Mrs D having made this deposit. 
Mrs D has queried whether she may have selected £5 rather than £500. But if Mrs D had 
entered £5 into the ATM rather than £500 and/or the funds were in a blank envelope, there 
would still be a record of Mrs Ds card being used in the machine. Theres no evidence that 
any discrepancies were found.
Mrs D has also asked if its relevant that the notes would have been the older style ones. 
Nationwide has said if an envelope had old £20 notes in, it wouldnt have been treated any 
differently to the new ones. So, these points change my findings.
For the reasons explained, I dont think Nationwide has been unreasonable in declining to 
credit Mrs Ds account in the circumstances. And so, I dont think it would be fair to make an 
award here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman