DRN-3325386
The complaint
Mr R complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly registered a fraud marker against 
him and closed his accounts.  
What happened
Mr Rs close friend - who I will refer to as Mr M  lived abroad and had fallen seriously 
unwell. Mr R helped him return to the UK and agreed he could live with him as, amongst 
other things, he needed to be cared for.
Mr R says Mr M asked if he could transfer over £100,000 of his money into Mr Rs account. 
Mr R says this was to help Mr M successfully obtain Government benefits that he might 
otherwise be declined given he held substantive savings.  
Shortly after having this discussion with Mr R, Mr M was rushed into hospital. Mr R then 
transferred the money into his account using Mr Ms online banking credentials. Mr R says 
he had access to Mr Ms account as they had setup the online banking together and he was 
authorised to do so. 
Mr Ms daughter raised a report the money transferred by Mr R was done fraudulently. The 
police also got in touch with Mr R about the matter. Mr R says they confiscated his laptop 
and mobile phone, but he was never arrested nor charged for any offence. 
Mr R returned the funds to Mr Ms account. Mr R explained his version of events to 
Santander.
After looking into the matter Santander reviewed and blocked Mr Rs accounts. Afterwards it 
decided to close any accounts he held with it and registered a CIFAS fraud marker against 
him. Sadly, Mr M died whilst in hospital some time later. 
Unhappy with Santanders actions, Mr R complained.  
Santander did not uphold Mr Rs complaint, but it did give him £100 as a goodwill gesture for 
costs he had incurred and the time it took to look into his complaint. Mr R referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Mr R made several points in relation to his complaint, which included Santander not paying 
his credit card balance and incurring other costs. Mr R did have access to some of his funds 
whilst the account was blocked for review. Mr R withdrew £5,000 during this time which he 
says was for essential living costs. 
But Mr R has since told our Investigator he now only wants us to consider the points about 
his accounts being closed, and the CIFAS marker being registered against him. So, my 
decision will only focus on these points. 
Our Investigator looked into the matter. In summary they found: 
- As Mr M has passed, its not possible to know for sure if he gave Mr R permission to 
transfer the funds
- As Mr R was seriously unwell, and as he had substantive savings, itss unlikely hed 
want to claim or for that matter, was concerned about benefits
- It doesnt make sense Mr R went ahead with transferring the funds only shortly after 
discussing it with Mr M, and him being taken to hospital. Especially as Mr R says he 
was uncomfortable going ahead with the plan because it was benefit fraud.
So its less likely Mr M wouldve been motivated to commit benefit fraud, and theres 
nothing to show Mr R was compelled to do so on his behalf. So, because of that, its 
likely Mr M didnt consent to the payments
- Santander has enough information to place a marker against Mr R.
Under CIFAS principles, a marker can be added as long as there is strong evidence 
to confidently report the matter to the police. So the police closing their investigation 
is not relevant here. And, Santander received information from Mr Ms bank that the 
funds were obtained fraudulently 
- The police closed its investigation without charging Mr R, but he likely transferred the 
funds without Mr Ms permission
- Santander was entitled to close the account in the way it did, and this was in line with 
its terms and conditions 
In response, Mr R has made the following key points: 
- He commenced with the transfers as Mr M could see no other way of getting home 
help without him doing so 
- Mr M told him in hospital his daughter was angry that he had jeopardised her 
inheritance 
- The complaint against him was malicious   
As Mr R didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why.
CIFAS marker
The marker Santander have filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds.
In order to file such a marker, Santanders not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
Mr R is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more 
than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have
entered Mr Rs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
Santander will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payments and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate
payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Santander
has enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for misuse of facility
with CIFAS.
Santander say it received notification from the police the funds Mr R received from Mr Ms 
account were fraudulent. It adds that Mr Ms bank shortly got in touch to say the funds Mr R 
received were the proceeds of fraud.  Santander was told Mr R had obtained Mr Ms banking 
details and transferred the money without his permission. In other words, they were 
unauthorised transactions. 
Santander contacted Mr R and its internal notes show he said he agreed to look after Mr Ms 
money, so he was under the limit to be able to claim benefits. 
Its unfortunate Mr M has now passed, and that he was unable to give any kind of 
information to show he had authorised Mr R to transfer the money using his online banking 
security credentials. 
Where evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I can reach a decision based on what I think 
is most likely  that is, the balance of probabilities. 
Having said that, I dont think I need to find whether or not I think Mr M did authorise these 
transactions. But, as Ive already said, whether the evidence available showed there were 
reasonable grounds for Santander to believe an identified fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted. And that the evidence was clear, relevant and rigorous so that 
Santander could confidently report the matter to the police. 
The police were already involved and had taken Mr Rs computer and phone for further 
investigation as it has received a report the funds received were fraudulent. And given the 
account the money was transferred to wasnt used much and contained small amounts of 
money; I think it was reasonable for Santander to conclude that fraud was likely being 
committed. 
Mr R then told Santander he had transferred the funds to help Mr M hide them to be able to 
get benefits. Ive listened to the call Mr R had with our investigator, and in it he is aware he is 
committing fraud by potentially helping Mr M deceive the relevant Government department to 
obtain benefits. 
I note Mr R says he wasnt happy about doing the transfers and holding the money, and he 
had told Mr M that. But Mr R is aware he was potentially committing fraud albeit that he is 
remorseful about what happened. It figures then that he was most likely committing a fraud 
or financial crime here  something he told Santander about when it spoke to him at the 
time. So it follows Santander had more than reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or financial 
crime had been committed. And the evidence was clear, relevant and strong enough for 
Santander to report it to the police, albeit they were already involved in the matter. 
This means Im satisfied the CIFAS marker was added fairly by Santander. 
Mr R argues that as the police took no further action by arresting or charging him, the marker 
should now be removed. Santander say it hasnt had any confirmation from Mr Ms bank that 
no crime was committed, so it wont remove the marker. 
Mr R has sent me a record of email correspondence between him and the investigating 
police officer. It says, I am writing to advise you that we will taking no further action in 
respect of the allegations of fraud and theft against you.  
Mr R has not been exonerated of any wrongdoing here, only that the police wont be taking 
any further action. I accept its likely the police wouldnt have stopped the investigation if they 
thought he had been fraudulent. But equally it may have decided not to take any action as 
the money had been returned or for some other rationale.  
As there isnt anything to show unequivocally that Mr R hadnt committed a crime by the 
police, and as he himself admits to being party to a conspiracy to defraud and moved the 
funds to action that, Im persuaded Santander is acting fairly and reasonably by not 
removing it.  
Account restrictions and closure
Santander has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an
account is opened.
To comply with its obligations, Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its 
customers access. If Santander didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious 
sanction. In order to meet these requirements, Santander is entitled to ask a customer for
more information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into
an account.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mr Rs account and ask him for information relating to activity on the
account. So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused Mr R inconvenience, I cant say
Santander treated him unfairly when it blocked his account.
Santander later took the decision to close Mr Rs accounts. A bank is entitled to close an 
account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But before a bank closes an 
account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Mr R had to comply with,
say that it could close the account. The terms go onto explain what those circumstances are,
and when Santander can close it immediately.
Given the information presented to me by Santander and Mr R, and having looked at the 
wording of the applicable terms, I cant say Santander acted unfairly in closing Mr Rs 
account with immediate effect. I understand its concern.So it follows that Im satisfied Santander was entitled to close the account in the way that it
has done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman