DRN-3709018
The complaint
Miss S complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail), provided 
her with a catalogue shopping account that she could not afford.
What happened
In April 2020 Home Retail approved a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit of 
£750 for Miss S.
Since September 2020, Miss S account has been, at best, slightly under her credit limit. But 
more often its been over it, and late payment fees have been incurred. So she has clearly 
run into some difficulties making repayments.
In March 2022, Miss S complained to Home Retail. After it rejected her complaint, Miss S 
brought the case to our service. One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and thought 
that Home Retail hadnt done anything significantly wrong. Miss S doesnt accept that, and 
asked that the case be passed to an Ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Home Retail has not increased Miss S credit limit 
since the account was opened. Miss S seems to think it has, but Ive seen lots of 
evidence to show the opposite.
Home Retail was required to carry out sufficient checks to determine whether Miss S 
would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in a sustainable 
way. The rules in place dont require any particular or named evidence to be gathered, or 
that a business automatically verifies everything it is told by a customer. Simply that the 
checks be proportionate.
Home Retail used a combination of a high-level credit check and information Miss S gave it 
about her finances in order to decide whether to approve her application in April 2020.
The credit check was not a detailed credit file review, but instead gave summary headlines 
about Miss S financial management and indebtedness. I can see it raised no concerns 
which ought to have led Home Retail to either ask further questions or to turn down her 
application. Miss S says that she was in a large amount of debt which was not sustainable 
on her income. But that isnt shown on the credit check completed by Home Retail.
Bearing in mind that she told it she worked full-time, earned £20,000 gross per year, and 
that Home Retail gave her a fairly modest credit limit of £750, I think the checks went far 
enough and were proportionate. As it was at the beginning of its lending relationship with 
Miss S, I think Home Retail was entitled to rely on what she told it about her work and 
income without verification.
Of course I accept that ultimately Miss S wasnt able to properly manage the repayment on 
this account. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Home Retail could have, or ought to 
have been able to, predict that from the available evidence in April 2020. In all the 
circumstances of this case, I think its checks went far enough and it was reasonable for 
Home Retail to conclude that this borrowing would be sustainable for Miss S.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Home Retail doesnt need 
to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman