DRN-2421103
The complaint
Mr B. who is represented by his father Mr P, complains that RCI Financial Services Limited 
refused to let him reject a faulty car and to provide a full refund.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr B acquired a second-hand car costing £20,595 funded by a deposit of 
£1,400 (£500 cash and £900 part exchange value) and the rest by hire purchase finance. It 
was some nine months old and had done 2,115 miles. The car was advertised a Cat D, 
damaged, now repaired. Mr B denies he was told this. 
In June 2019 Mr B noticed a rattling sound and took the car to a main dealer. It discovered 
that the car had major issues. It noted: O/S/F chassis badly damaged, radiator fitted 
incorrectly, A/L pipes damaged, A/C compressor pully broken. Aux belt damaged, oil 
pressure switch connector damaged. Air inlet pipe twisted, rear exhaust fault, body tray 
damaged and not fitted correctly. 
He spoke to the dealer and it offered to refund his deposit and settle the outstanding finance 
debt, but this was rejected. The dealer withdrew the offer. Mr B complained to RCI
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who considered the offer made to Mr B was fair. He asked RCI if the dealer 
was willing to reinstate its original offer. It said it would refund the deposit, settle the 
outstanding finance less £200 per month usage fee. Mr P asked for clarification of the offer 
and the dealer said that at the time Mr B had had 23 months usage of the car so it would 
refund the sums paid of £7,480 less £4,600 for usage and settle the existing finance.
Mr P didnt agree and submitted a video from a main dealer showing the faults with the car. 
He also submitted two invoices from the dealer one of which he said was fraudulent and he 
also submitted an email from the dealer in 2019 in which it offered to take the car back and 
refund all payments.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I considered to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
RCI is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It was clear to me that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale and Mr B was entitled 
to reject it even though the faults were only discovered some 15 months after purchase. 
Both the dealer and RCI had agreed that Mr B should be allowed to reject the car. The only 
issue which hadnt been resolved is the matter of redress.
I said this service takes the view that where a complaint is upheld the aim should be to put 
the consumer back into the position they would have been in had the error not occurred. The 
normal method in situations such as this is for the car to be returned and any deposit repaid 
with the consumer responsible for the monthly payments for the period the car was usable. 
The faults were discovered in early June 2019 and I gather that the car was left on Mr Bs 
drive at that point. Having looked at the main dealers list of faults I presumed that the car 
wasnt safe to drive. 
This would mean that RSI should refund the deposit of £1,400 and any monthly payments 
paid after 1 June 2019 plus interest. Mr B had use of the car for some 15 months and I said 
it was only right that he should pay for that use and that is why the monthly payments for that 
period should not be refunded.
Mr P has suggested that his sons incidental cost such as tax and insurance should be 
refunded. I didnt agree. He would have had to pay those costs if the car hadnt been faulty 
or if he had bought another car. He was able to make use of it and I gathered he driven it 
more than 7,000 miles. These incidental running costs were not incurred due to the car 
being faulty.
However, I believed Mr B was entitled to some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered due to the car not being fit for purpose. I suggested a sum of 
£250 would be fair.
Mr B had rejected the various offers made by the dealer and RCI and the proposed 
settlement endorsed by our investigator and as such I dont consider it necessary to revisit 
those. I think the proposal supported by our investigator was a reasonable attempt to reach 
a resolution. Given these options have been rejected I considered it best that I follow the 
accepted methodology in seeking to resolve this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties have accepted my provisional decision, but Mr P expressed concern about the 
behaviour of the dealer. While I appreciate his concerns I no power to address these; my 
remit only extends to regulated financial activities. The car has already been returned to the 
dealer and I gather it is up for sale again, hopefully after being properly repaired. This means 
that RCI does not need to collect the car and I have amended my directions accordingly. 
However, all other elements of my provisional decision stand.Putting things right
 RCI should end the agreement and compensate Mr B.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct RCI Financial Services Limited 
to:
end the agreement,
refund the deposit of £1,400 plus interest at 8% simple from the date paid up to the 
date repaid,
refund any monthly payments made by Mr B from June 2019 plus interest at 8% 
simple from the date paid up to the date repaid,
pay compensation of £250,
remove any adverse entries it may have made on his credit file.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman