DRN-3271759
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
I sent Mr Z and Bank of Scotland a provisional decision on 30 November 2021 setting out 
why I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is 
set out below:
Its not in dispute that Mr Z authorised the payments himself. He accepts he made them 
both in branch. So, while I recognise he didnt intend for the money to go to scammers, the 
starting position in law is that Bank of Scotland was obliged to follow his instructions and 
process the payments. So Mr Z isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Bank of 
Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
From looking at the statements for Mr Zs account, I think both of these payments would 
have seemed unusual and out of character in comparison with his usual spending on the 
account. Both payments were for significantly larger amounts than any other transactions on 
Mr Zs account in the previous twelve months. Both were international payments, which was 
unusual for Mr Z. And both were to a new payee he hadnt sent money to before these 
payments. So I think Bank of Scotland should have identified that Mr Z could be at risk of 
fraud as a result of the payments and asked further questions about them.
Both payments were carried out in branch and Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of a 
checklist that was completed by the branch staff when the second payment was made. It 
also says a checklist would also have been completed for the first payment, and its records 
show the first payment was approved by a branch manager, so I think its likely a similar 
checklist was completed for both payments. And so it appears Bank of Scotland did ask Mr Z 
some questions about the payments. But, even if it had asked further questions, I dont think 
this would have prevented the scam from taking place.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks Bank of Scotland should do or the questions it 
should ask. But Bank of Scotland should take steps designed to protect its customers from 
the risk of financial harm. And, in these circumstances, I think it would be reasonable to 
expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payments, how well the 
customer knew the people involved in the project and what checks they had done into the 
company they were sending the money to.
The checklist shows the payment was for an arranged development loan and that Mr Z had 
checked the company he was paying and had checked the payment details. So it appears 
Bank of Scotland asked some of these questions and was satisfied with Mr Zs answers. But 
even if it had asked further questions, Mr Z has been able to provide a copy of his business 
plan for developing the site and a significant amount of paperwork from the loan company, 
which I think look legitimate enough that they would have satisfied the branch staff.
Mr Z has also said that he had met and spoken to the financial advisor on many occasions 
and had checked the website for the loan company and was happy it was a genuine 
company. Bank of Scotland says Mr Z was able to answer the branch staffs questions 
confidently and was sure of what he was doing. And Mr Z says he was totally confident the 
loan was legitimate, and he only became aware this was a scam when he visited the country 
the loan company was based in and was told by multiple authorities that it was a scam.
So, even if Bank of Scotland had asked the level of questions wed expect it to, I think it 
would have been satisfied by Mr Zs answers to those questions. And even if it had warned 
Mr Z about similar scams, I think Mr Z would have remained convinced the loan was 
legitimate and would have gone ahead with the payments anyway.
I sympathise with the position Mr Z has found himself in and I appreciate how he feels about 
this case and that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But I dont think it 
would be fair to say that any further action Bank of Scotland could reasonably have been 
expected to take would have stopped him going ahead with the payments and so losing his 
money. And so I dont think it would be fair to require Bank of Scotland to refund the money 
he lost.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam, wed also expect the bank to take 
reasonable steps to recover the money that was lost. Bank of Scotlands notes show it 
contacted the bank the money was sent to as soon as Mr Z told it about the scam, but was 
told the money couldnt be recovered. So, unfortunately, I dont think theres anything further 
Bank of Scotland could have done to recover the money.
I said Id consider anything further Mr Z and Bank of Scotland sent in following the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland said it agreed with the provisional decision and didnt send in any further 
evidence or arguments.Mr Z said he didnt feel Bank of Scotland had met its duty of care to him, as hes been told 
that the bank the money was sent to is on a watch-list and so payments to it should have 
been subject to enhanced checks. But, even if the bank the money was sent to was on a 
watch-list, I still dont think this would have prevented the scam from taking place.
I explained in my provisional decision that I thought Bank of Scotland should have identified 
that Mr Z could have been at risk of fraud as a result of the payments, and so asked further 
questions about them. But I also explained that, even if it had asked these further questions, 
I didnt think this would have stopped Mr Z going ahead with the payments anyway  and I 
still think this is the case, even if the bank the money was sent to was on a watch-list.
Mr Z was able to provide a copy of his business plan for developing the site and a significant 
amount of paperwork from the loan company. Hed met and spoken to his financial advisor 
on many occasions, checked the website of the loan company and was able to answer the 
branch staffs questions confidently. And he says he was totally confident the loan was 
legitimate. So even if Bank of Scotland had asked further questions, and done further checks 
due to the bank being on a watch-list, I still think Mr Z would have remained convinced the 
loan was legitimate and gone ahead with the payments anyway.
So I still think the findings I set out in my provisional decision are correct, that it wouldnt be 
fair to say that any action that Bank of Scotland could reasonably have been expected to 
take would have stopped Mr Z losing his money. And so, while I recognise this decision will 
come as a disappointment to him, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require 
Bank of Scotland to refund the money Mr Z lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman