DRN-3352607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that whilst they wanted to port their mortgage product with 
Nationwide Building Society to a new mortgage on a new property, they in fact took out a 
new mortgage and had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had an existing mortgage product with Nationwide which had a fixed interest 
rate for five years and an ERC was payable if the mortgage redeemed early. The ERC could 
be avoided if the mortgage product was ported to a new mortgage on a new property. Mr 
and Mrs D were considering moving to a new house and in September 2020 got a Decision 
in Principle (DIP) online from Nationwide. As they were firming up their plans, they phoned 
Nationwide on 17 November 2020. Mr D told the adviser he spoke to that they had got a DIP 
online. The adviser told Mr D that if they were porting their mortgage, they couldnt make the 
application online. The adviser did a further DIP and told Mr D that when they had agreed 
the purchase they should speak to a Nationwide adviser.
Mr and Mrs D then applied online for a mortgage for their new property and got a mortgage 
offer and paid a product fee, but the application didnt involve porting their mortgage product. 
Shortly before their new purchase completed, their solicitor got a redemption statement from 
Nationwide with an ERC. Mr D contacted Nationwide who told him that as he hadnt applied 
to port the mortgage product the ERC was payable and could only be avoided if they 
cancelled the existing mortgage offer and made a new application. Mr D and Mrs D felt 
under pressure to complete the purchase and raised a complaint after it completed.
Our investigator noted that Nationwide paid compensation of £100 for a number of service 
issues including a failure of contact and not updating Mr and Mrs Ds address but in respect 
of the ERC didnt accept that Nationwide acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked 
for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Could I initially express my sympathies to Mr and Mrs D as I see that in the midst of all this, 
there was a family tragedy which I was very sorry to learn about. 
My role here is to investigate this complaint against Nationwide, see if its done anything 
wrong and if it has, to compensate Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D could have avoided the 
ERC if they had applied to port their existing mortgage product to a mortgage on another 
property. In order to make the application, Nationwide required them to go through an advice 
process with a mortgage adviser. I listened to the call of 17 November 2020 and Im in no 
doubt from that call that if Mr and Mrs D wanted to port their mortgage that they would  had 
to make another appointment with an adviser to make the application by phone.
For some reason, Mr and Mrs D decided to do it online. The problem is that they didnt apply 
to port the mortgage product and didnt transfer the mortgage product they had to the new 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs D managed to get a new mortgage offer with a new mortgage product 
and not a transfer of the existing product. Thats the situation they ended up in a week 
before completion when they contacted Nationwide.
Was any of this Nationwides fault? I listened to several phone conversations and as I say 
the call of the 17 November was in my view a clear instruction to Mr D that if they wanted to 
port, it couldnt be done online. Mr D refers to another call from which he understood he 
could have applied online. Nationwide dont have a record of the call. I would have thought 
that the adviser that Mr D spoke to on the 17 November was following clear guidance that an 
application to port couldnt be done online and that such guidance would be followed by any 
other adviser that was asked that question. So, I think it unlikely that another adviser would 
have misled Mr D that he could make the application to port online.
But even if such misinformation was given in a call, Ive been shown several warnings from 
the Nationwide website that Mr and Mrs D would have come upon when making the 
application. These make it clear that a porting application cant be done online. Mr D says 
that he doesnt recall these warnings, But I accept that they are likely to have been there 
given that Nationwide werent doing porting applications online. Mr D suggests that the 
warnings be stronger, but the warnings do advise that an ERC may be payable if they went 
ahead and applied online for a new mortgage.
The problem I have in upholding this complaint is that I dont accept that Nationwide did 
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs D had fair warning that they couldnt apply online to port their 
mortgage. Thy instead applied online for a new mortgage without porting which is the 
mortgage they were offered. That in my view is not Nationwides fault.  As Im unable to say 
that Nationwide did anything wrong - apart from the minor service issues for which the 
Society has paid appropriate compensation - I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman