DRN-2746782
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd misled him about the pension fund he was 
invested in. He also complains about Zurichs poor service when he raised his complaint.
What happened
In 2011 Mr Ps pension fund was moved to Zurichs Fixed Interest Deposit fund. Mr P was 
disappointed with the minimal growth on the value of the fund between 2011 and 2019. He 
found out that the unit price of the fund was frozen in 2008, and he considered Zurich 
shouldve made this clear when it moved his money in 2011. Mr P said this wouldve 
influenced his decision to invest in the fund.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that the fund 
was moved following instructions from Mr Ps independent financial adviser (IFA). The 
original instruction was to convert the fund to cash, but Zurich didnt have a suitable cash 
fund. It moved Mr Ps fund to the closest equivalent to a cash fund and told him what it had 
done. It also told him he could move his money if he wasnt satisfied with the fund. 
The investigator accepted that Zurich hadnt made Mr P aware that the unit price was frozen. 
But Mr P was receiving advice from an IFA, so the investigator didnt consider Zurich was 
responsible for the suitability of the investment.
The investigator was also satisfied that Zurich had provided Mr P with regular updates on the 
value of his fund.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He maintained that if hed known the 
unit price was frozen, he wouldve looked into alternative investments. He also remained 
unhappy with the funds performance and Zurichs poor complaint handling. Mr P asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Mr P was being advised by an IFA and the fund switch was made as result of instructions 
from the IFA. The instructions show that the IFA knew that Zurich didnt offer a cash fund, 
but there was a degree of urgency to switch Mr Ps fund as quickly as possible.
Zurich wrote to Mr P and said:
As we dont offer a cash fund (or a UK Money Securities Fund), to avoid delay in carrying 
out your instructions, weve switched the investment into the Fixed Interest fund. Weve done 
this because the Fixed Interest Fund is the closest fund we have to a cash fund, as it 
invests in cash or near cash alternatives.
If you want to switch to another fund, please write to us at the address shown on this letter.
Mr P considers Zurich shouldve made clear that the unit price of the Fixed Interest Fund 
was frozen. I can see why he might take that view. But Im mindful that Mr Ps original 
instruction was to move his fund to cash. So it seems he wanted to protect the value of his 
capital.
Ive also noted the fund switch instruction issued by the IFA on 11 March 2011, in which it 
informed Zurich that Mr P wished to switch into cash in order to establish an annuity. The 
IFA also said that Mr P needed to move into cash, or other options, as quickly as possible.
As no cash fund was available, I therefore dont think that it was inappropriate for Zurich to 
offer the Fixed Interest Fund as one of those other options.
Zurich had frozen the unit price in response to the global financial crisis, to protect 
customers funds against erosion from charges. As such, it had taken steps to protect the 
capital value of customers funds. This means that even if Mr P had been made aware of the 
frozen unit price, as he wanted to protect his capital (with the strong suggestion from his IFA 
that this would be converted into an annuity), on balance I think its unlikely he wouldve 
invested differently.
In addition, Zurich wasnt responsible for the suitability of Mr Ps investment. Im satisfied 
that Mr Ps IFA would ordinarily be responsible for advising him on whether a particular fund 
was suitable for his needs  although Im not privy to the actual terms of business 
established between Mr P and his IFA, and so cannot comment upon that relationship. It 
would also ordinarily have been the responsibility of an IFA, if recommending a fund, to 
ensure that the attributes or characteristics of the fund, which would have included its growth 
potential, were suited to Mr Ps objectives. Zurich has confirmed that fund information would 
have been available upon request at any time.
Zurich sent Mr P annual statements so he could see how his fund was performing. Again, I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr P to consider switching his fund if he was unhappy 
with the growth he was achieving. In any event, fund performance isnt something that this 
service is able to comment on so I wont be making any specific findings on that point.
When I take all of these points into account, overall Im not persuaded that Zurich has done 
anything wrong in connection with its handling of Mr Ps pension fund.
Mr P has mentioned Zurichs poor service in dealing with his complaint. I appreciate his 
frustration at the time taken to deal with the matter, but Im also mindful of the different 
working practices Zurich is likely to be experiencing as a result of the pandemic. So Im not 
persuaded that Zurich needs to do anything further in this respect. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman