DRN-2539358
The complaint
Mr Ks complained that he was inconvenienced when the replacement mobile phone 
Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) provided to him when he made a claim was 
also faulty.
What happened
Mr K has a bank account that provides him with a number of benefits.  One of these is 
insurance for his mobile phone.
In summer 2020, Mr K damaged his mobile phone.  So he contacted Assurant to make a 
claim under the policy.  Assurant accepted the claim.  Mr K paid his policy excess and sent 
his phone to Assurant for assessment.
Assurants engineers decided the phone couldnt be repaired  which, under the terms of the 
policy, meant theyd provide Mr K with a replacement phone.  The policy says the 
replacement will be:
a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size, from new or refurbished 
stock.
Assurant provided Mr K with a refurbished replacement.
About ten days later, Mr K contacted Assurant to tell them the replacement phone had a 
number of faults.  At first, Assurant asked him to return the phone to them for inspection.  
But, when Mr K objected to this, they offered him a cash settlement of £437 for his original 
phone and asked him to return the replacement to them.
Mr K complained to Assurant that theyd provided a faulty replacement phone and the cash 
settlement wasnt enough for him to buy a replacement from a source he trusted.  Assurant 
accepted the replacement theyd provided was faulty and paid him £50 compensation for 
this.  But they said £437 was enough for him to buy a replacement phone from a reputable 
UK seller, so they wouldnt increase that payment.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with this outcome and brought his complaint to us.  He told us he 
thought Assurant should provide him with a settlement which was enough to replace his 
phone with one which had been certified by the manufacturer.  And he thought that he 
should be paid £200 compensation to compensate him for the time spent in setting up and 
wiping data from the faulty phone.
Our investigator looked at the evidence but didnt think Assurant needed to do anything more 
than theyd done to resolve Mr Ks complaint.  She said the policy entitled Assurant to 
provide a refurbished phone as a replacement.  Shed seen evidence that Mr K could 
replace his phone for the amount hed received from Assurant, by going to retailers who 
provided warranties for their products.  And she thought £50 was reasonable to reflect the 
inconvenience Mr K had suffered.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
My role here is to see if Assurant have dealt with Mr Ks claim fairly and in line with the policy 
terms.  The policy says that they will repair the phone if thats possible.  If its not theyll 
replace it.  Ive quoted the section of the term about replacement above. 
Assurant decided the phone couldnt be repaired, so they replaced it.  They provided a 
refurbished phone  which the policy allows them to do.  So I think that was reasonable.
Its unfortunate the replacement phone was faulty as well.  I can understand why that 
frustrated Mr K.  But this sort of thing does happen from time to time.  So Ive looked at what 
Assurant did when Mr K told them about this.
Assurant asked Mr K to return the replacement so they could inspect it.  That was in line with 
how they dealt with his own phone  so I think it was reasonable to do the same here.  When 
Mr K objected to doing this, they agreed to pay him what it would cost him to replace the 
phone with an equivalent.  I think thats reasonable too.  And Ive not seen that Assurant 
delayed in doing this.
Mr Ks told us he thought, if Assurant provided him with a refurbished mobile phone, it 
should be one which was certified by the manufacturer and had a manufacturers guarantee.  
Ive thought about this.  But thats not what the policy provides.  So I dont think its 
reasonable for me to say Assurant should have done that.
And for the same reason, I think the cash equivalent they paid Mr K was reasonable.  Ive 
seen several adverts for an equivalent phone, which show that Mr K couldve bought a 
replacement for £437 or less.  I understand why Mr K may want to purchase a replacement 
from the manufacturer.  And he can do that if he chooses.  But the policy doesnt provide a 
manufacturer-guaranteed equivalent.  So its not fair for me to say Assurant should pay Mr K 
more to allow him to do that.
Mr Ks also told us he doesnt think £50 compensation is enough for the inconvenience he 
suffered.  He says the right level of compensation is £200.
Ive considered the amount of inconvenience Mr Ks suffered as a result of receiving a faulty 
phone from Assurant.  Thats not the same as the inconvenience of being without a phone.  
Some of the frustration Mr K says hes suffered  such as having to set up the phone  
would always have occurred, because its part and parcel of replacing a phone.
And Mr K says hes suffered poor customer service.  I dont agree thats the case.  When Mr 
K told Assurant his replacement phone was faulty, they immediately tried to sort the problem 
out.  And when Mr K objected to the way Assurant proposed to deal with the faulty phone, 
they offered a cash alternative on the same day.
I cant say they shouldve handled the issue any differently.  The phone provided was faulty.  
But I think the payment of £50 is enough to compensate for that.  I dont think Assurant need 
to do anything else to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman