DRN-4500577
The complaint
Mr O complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) didnt provide him with reasonable 
access to his pension policy information. And that this has led to a financial loss.
Mr O has a further complaint with SW about events that took place after it issued its second 
final response letter on 25 April 2023. But my decision will only consider the complaint that 
this final response, and the first final response dated 27 January 2023, covered. Mr Os other 
complaint will be dealt with separately.
What happened
Mr O holds two Income Drawdown policies with SW. He lives overseas.
In August 2022, SW wrote to affected policyholders to tell them it would be temporarily 
suspending online access to policy information from 13 August 2022. It sent a four-page 
note explaining what was happening and why.
Mr O was unhappy with this, as he wanted to monitor his investments online. He felt the 
suspension of the online service made him unable to access the information he needed to 
assess whether his investments remained suitable for him. So he said he complained to SW 
in October 2022. SW has no record of Mr O making a complaint at this time.
SW said Mr O complained to it on 10 November 2022. He said hed been unable to access 
his policy online for the last two months. He felt this meant he couldnt make informed fund 
switches and that this had caused him a financial loss. He felt there shouldve been a back-
up plan so that customers could still access their policies online. And that if online access 
wasnt going to be available, SW should send him a regular statement. Mr O also 
complained that hed had to wait 40 to 50 minutes to get through every time he called SW. 
And that hed been transferred five or six times during this call. 
During the call, Mr O also asked SW to disinvest £15,000 from his policies. He specified that 
hed like the payment to be made to him on 5 January 2023. And stressed that it couldnt be 
made before the end of 2022 or it would have tax consequences for him, for which he would 
hold SW liable.
SW told Mr O that whilst it couldnt currently provide an online service, it could still provide 
information over the phone. As Mr O felt it would be too complex to receive information this 
way, he asked SW to send him policy valuations for each of his two policies. He wanted 
them to show the details of all the funds he held in each policy  10 funds in each policy. SW 
said it couldnt email information to Mr O at that point due to an ongoing system upgrade. 
But it agreed to post the information. SW noted that as Mr O lived overseas, the information 
might take a few days to reach him. 
SW told Mr O that the only way he could currently get the value of his policies, or make any 
changes to his funds, was by telephone or post. 
SW said it issued policy information to Mr O by post on 15 November 2022. 
Mr O called SW again on 30 November 2022, as he still hadnt received the policy 
information hed asked for. He said he couldnt manage his policies until he received the 
information hed requested. He also confirmed that he wanted the information for both of his 
two policies. And that he wanted the information to show each of his 10 funds for each 
policy. 
Mr O repeated his complaint from 10 November 2022 and said that due to the lack of online 
access he couldnt manage his policies during a period of high volatility. He felt that SW was 
responsible for any poor investment performance from 13 August 2022, when his online 
access had been suspended. He said he couldnt effectively manage his policies by phone. 
SW said it would email the information Mr O had asked for.
It came to light that SW had only posted information about one of Mr Os policies on 15 
November 2022. So it emailed information for the other policy on 1 December 2022.
Mr O called SW again on 6 December 2022. He said the information itd emailed to him on 1 
December 2022 wasnt detailed enough to allow him to properly review his investments. He 
said he needed monthly statements for both of his policies from August 2022 onwards. SW 
said it would email him with that information. Mr O also said that hed still not received the 
information posted to him on 15 November 2022. SW said it would email this to him. 
Mr O also asked SW about his planned £15,000 withdrawal. He felt it should be actioned 
around the 18/19 December 2022 so that it would reach his account on 5 January 2023.  
Mr O called SW on 30 December 2022 and 6 January 2023 about his requested £15,000 
withdrawal. SW told him there was a backlog with income drawdown payments. Mr O raised 
a complaint. He said he wasnt able to pay his bills this month. Mr O also called SW about 
the delayed payment on 9 January 2023. 
Mr O called SW again on 10 January 2023 as he was still waiting for his £15,000 drawdown 
payment. He said hed had to wait to get through. And that hed been transferred between 
three different departments. 
SW said that it was working on the payment. But wasnt sure when it would be made. Mr O 
asked for a complaint to be raised about this. He also told SW that he still needed the 
historical data from August 2022 onwards that hed previously requested. He said he needed 
a monthly statement by fund since 13 August 2022 so that he could make decisions about 
his investments. SW said it would request this information.
SW posted Mr O policy information on 11 January 2023. And then it posted him statements 
for both of his policies for the period from January 2022 to January 2023 on 22 January 
2023. It also actioned Mr Os withdrawal request, with the payment being confirmed to him 
on 12 January 2023. 
SW issued its final response to Mr Os 10 November 2022 complaint on 27 January 2023. It 
upheld the complaint. It apologised for disinvesting Mr Os requested £15,000 withdrawal 
later than hed requested. And said itd been delayed because of the tax laws of Mr Os 
home country. SW also apologised for the lack of online access. It sent Mr O £50 
compensation for the poor service hed received. 
Mr O rejected SWs final response on 18 April 2023. He felt that SW had been given enough 
time to authorise his withdrawal on time. And that everything had already been in place 
about the tax issue SW had said had caused the delay before his withdrawal request. He 
also said that if hed not managed his financial affairs to cover the late payment, he couldve 
had a downgrade to his credit rating. This had caused him anxiety and a potential financial loss. 
SW issued a further response to Mr Os complaint on 25 April 2023. It felt its original 
response was of poor quality. It now felt it should pay Mr O a further £100 in respect of the 
issues hed faced. It also made an interest payment of £21.04 (net of tax) in respect of the 
delayed income drawdown payment. It based this payment on an interest rate of 8% from 5 
January 2023 to 12 January 2023. SW also apologised for its previous complaint response, 
which it acknowledged hadnt fully addressed Mr Os points. 
SW apologised for the continued lack of online access and the inconvenience this was 
causing. It said that this lack of access had led to its phone lines being busier than usual. 
SW said that while there was no online access, it was still possible to request a fund switch 
over the phone or by email. So it didnt agree that itd prevented Mr O from making such 
changes. And therefore it didnt feel it could fairly be held responsible for any financial loss 
Mr O felt hed suffered through not being able to make fund switches online. It also said that 
it had no record of Mr O having asked it to switch funds. 
Mr O didnt accept SWs final response. He wrote to it on 16 May 2023. He said one of the 
main reasons hed chosen it as his pension provider was the online services it provided. He 
didnt think it was fair that in August 2022 those services had been stopped. He felt it was 
especially unfair that thered been no online access during a period of extreme market 
volatility.
Mr O said that this lack of online services meant hed been unable to analyse fund portfolio 
changes since August 2022. He felt that the phone service that was in place instead wasnt 
fit for purpose. And that the removal of the online services without adequate replacement 
had caused him a financial loss.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service. He didnt agree with SW that it was: still possible 
to request a fund switch over the phone or by email". He said this statement was only true as 
of June 2023. He felt that the phone service that SW recommended be used by customers 
during the suspension of online services wasnt fit for purpose. He said that call waiting times 
were long and the service received was poor. Mr O said he often got transferred from 
department to department and was often given different phone numbers to use instead. He 
also said that it wasnt possible to verbally request policy values by fund. Mr O also said that 
SW had provided him with no accurate information about when the online service would 
resume. 
To put things right, Mr O wanted SW to cover his financial losses since 13 August 2022. 
In response to this services request for Mr Os complaint file, SW acknowledged that Mr O 
had spent a considerable amount of time getting through to it by phone. And that hed been 
transferred between multiple departments, and given several different contact numbers for 
the department he needed. It also said that its first final response letter had been of poor 
quality, and issued later than it shouldve been.
SW said itd paid Mr O £150 compensation to date for these service issues. It offered him a 
further £200 compensation for the poor service hed received. It also said that it was 
prepared to cover any costs Mr O mightve incurred due to the late payment of the £15,000.
SW still didnt think it had done anything wrong when it withdraw online services. It said that 
its Conditions Of Use gave it the right to withdraw access to the service at any time and for 
any reason. Therefore it said that the removal of online access for Mr O was within the terms 
and conditions of his policy. It also said that Mr O knew that he could obtain fund values and instruct changes to his policy - including fund switches - over the phone. So it couldnt 
reasonably take responsibility for the decrease in value of his policies. SW also said that it 
couldnt be held responsible to any delays of the postal service.
SW also provided this service with a link to the Conditions of Use applicable to Mr Os policy. 
These stated, under section 5. General:
Scottish Widows may suspend or terminate your use of the services at any time for any 
reason.
Scottish Widows may vary these terms at any time to:
reflect a change in applicable law, regulation or industry practice
improve the efficiency of the services
We will post the amended terms on our website. Your continued use of the services will be 
deemed to be your consent to the revised terms. You are free to discontinue your use of the 
services with us at any time.
Our investigator didnt think that SW had acted unfairly when itd suspended Mr Os online 
services. 
Our investigator considered the compensation SW had paid. And the additional 
compensation it had offered. He felt the £15,000 withdrawal had been delayed because of 
tax regulations outside of SWs control. And because of the timing of the request being 
straight after the Christmas period. He therefore didnt think that SW had been required to 
add 8% interest for the period of the delay.
Although our investigator didnt think that the delays in disinvesting the funds had been 
definitively avoidable, he felt Mr O had suffered a loss of expectation, as he hadnt found out 
until 6 January 2023 that the disinvestment would be delayed. He noted this had caused Mr 
O concern and inconvenience. But felt that SWs offer of £50 compensation and £21 interest 
for the disinvestment delay was fair.
Our investigator also felt that Mr O had suffered long call wait times. He noted that SW had 
offered Mr O £100 compensation to recognise both this and the lack of online access. But 
felt that as SWs terms and conditions didnt require it to provide online access, it wasnt 
required to compensate Mr O for suspending online access. Therefore he felt that the £100 
compensation SW had offered in its April 2023 final response was solely in relation to the 
long call wait times.
Our investigator felt that SW couldve identified that the suspension of online access 
wouldve led to high call volumes. And that it therefore couldve taken more steps to prepare 
to deal with higher call volumes. As such, he felt that the £100 compensation should be 
increased to £125. He felt that this would more fairly reflect the level of consistent and 
repeated long call wait times which Mr O suffered over the period from September 2022 to 
January 2023.
Our investigator also felt that SW hadnt provided Mr O with the policy information hed 
requested for both policies for the period of August 2022 onwards in a timely manner. He felt 
Mr O had made his requirements clear. And that he shouldnt have had to chase SW before 
it was provided in January 2023. He felt that SW shouldve acknowledged Mr Os first 
request for the information on 6 December 2022, and then sent the information to him on 18 
December 2022. He felt that if this had been sent by email, Mr O wouldve received the information that day. Instead, he felt SW had mistakenly posted the information to Mr O on 
22 January 2023. And that SW had therefore caused avoidable delays from 18 December 
2022 to at least three weeks after the 22 January 2023. He felt SW should pay Mr O £125 
compensation for this avoidable delay and the distress and inconvenience hed been caused 
chasing up his request. 
Overall, our investigator recommended that SW increased its compensation by £150 - £25 in 
respect of call wait times and £125 in respect of the failure to provide policy information in a 
timely manner - rather than the £200 itd offered. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt think SW had fairly removed his online 
access. And that when hed called SW to ask it for policy fund prices, itd said itd have to 
refer his request to another department. He felt this showed that SW couldnt provide the 
information he needed by phone. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 November 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that SW was entitled 
to remove online access. And that its alternative provision of information was fit for purpose. 
Therefore I dont intend to uphold Mr Os complaint that SWs removal of his online access 
led to a financial loss. But I consider that SW should pay Mr O the total compensation it has 
suggested  that is the £171 its already paid, plus the £200 additional compensation it has 
offered for the poor service Mr O received  rather than the redress our investigator 
suggested. I know Mr O will be disappointed by my decision. Ill explain the reasons for it.
I first considered Mr Os complaint about the lack of online access. 
Did SW fairly suspend Mr Os online access?
Its entirely reasonable for Mr O to require detailed policy information so that he could 
monitor his investments. And because he lives overseas, I can understand why online 
access would be desirable. 
However, having carefully considered both the Income Drawdown policy provisions and the 
Conditions of Use applicable to Mr Os policies, Im satisfied that SW has the right to 
suspend or terminate online access at any time and for any reason. 
I acknowledge that Mr O doesnt think this is reasonable. And doesnt agree that this was 
what he signed up for. I also understand how highly he values his online access and that he 
says it was a fundamental reason for him using SW as his pension provider. But I cant fairly 
agree.
I say this because Mr Os Conditions of Use clearly allow SW to suspend or terminate his 
use of the services at any time for any reason. And his policy provisions dont mention 
online services at all.
I know Mr O doesnt consider this fair. But Ive seen no evidence that SW has broken its 
terms of service. I also note that most, if not all, other pension providers have similar 
conditions in their policies. Therefore Im not persuaded Mr O wouldve been able to find an 
alternative pension provider who wouldve guaranteed continued online access throughout the life of his policy at the point that he took out a policy with SW.
Therefore I dont uphold this part of the complaint, as Ive seen no evidence that SW did 
anything wrong when it suspended online access.
I next considered whether SW provided Mr O with other reasonable methods of obtaining the 
policy information he said he needed in order for him to be able to analyse whether or not he 
needed to switch his funds. 
Alternatives to online access
SW said that apart from calling it or writing to it with an instruction, Mr O couldve used its 
digital fund centre on its website to obtain the previous days unit bid price for the funds he 
held, given he knew the names of the funds. It said he could then calculate the specific value 
of his policies by multiplying the bid price available with the number of units he held in the 
fund, given he knew the number of units he held in the fund.
Mr O told this service that when he asked SW for fund prices for his 20 funds, he was told 
that his request would have to be referred to the relevant department. So he doesnt 
consider that SW has provided him with an adequate alternative to online access. And he 
doesnt agree that fund price information was available to him by phone or by internet 
enquiry. 
Mr O said he accepted that it was inconvenient to wait for a phone response. But that SW 
had actually been unable to provide the information hed requested by phone. He felt this 
meant that he couldnt access the policy information he needed to make effective fund 
switch requests. He also said that looking at other parts of SWs internet for price information 
wasnt a valid solution, as it only provided single unit prices, rather than the individual fund 
unit holding.
As our investigator noted, given online access isnt guaranteed, wed expect SW to provide 
Mr O with the ability to access his policy information using other means. It has said that he 
could call or write to it, or use information available on its website. And during the 10 
November 2022 complaint call, SW did tell Mr O that it could provide the information he 
might need by phone, rather than mention the other potential methods.
Mr O said he had a total of 20 funds across his two pension policies, so I can appreciate why 
he didnt think it would be straightforward to access his policy information by phone. But that 
doesnt mean that I think SWs alternatives for accessing information were unreasonable.
I say this because Im satisfied that SW can actually provide any fund information Mr O 
might need by phone. I acknowledge it may not be the approach Mr O would prefer to take, 
given his difficulty in getting through to SW, and the number of funds he holds, but I dont 
agree it isnt possible. 
In my view, Mr O was able to obtain his policy information by phone. But, if he didnt want to 
access it that way, he could also access any fund price information he needed from SWs 
website. I understand that he doesnt agree that it contains enough information for him to 
carry out the analysis he said he wanted to, but I dont agree.
I say this because even though SWs fund website wouldnt have the number of units he 
held in each fund, I agree with SW that Mr O would either already know the funds he was 
invested in, and the number of units he held, or he could easily access that information by 
calling or writing to SW. I acknowledge that Mr Os main complaint is that hes made a financial loss because he 
couldnt access the fund information he needed so that he could carry out a full analysis of 
his funds before deciding whether to switch funds. But, having listened to all the call 
recordings SW has provided, Ive no evidence that he ever called SW to ask it to carry out 
any specific fund switch. Nor have I seen any documentary evidence that Mr O asked SW to 
carry out a switch. 
I acknowledge that Mr O said he wanted to carry out analysis before deciding whether to 
switch any funds or not. But, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that he had enough 
access to enough information that he couldve carried out that analysis. I accept that it may 
have been more difficult to do than if the online service had been available, but Im satisfied 
that it was possible. Therefore, I cant fairly hold SW responsible for any fund losses Mr O 
thinks hes incurred due to the lack of online access. 
I next considered the late payment of Mr Os requested £15,000 withdrawal.
Payment of the £15,000 requested
The evidence shows that Mr O first told SW he wanted to withdraw £15,000 on 10 November 
2022. Mr O was very specific in this call that the payment must not be made before the end 
of 2022. And that he wanted it to reach his account on 5 January 2023. SW told Mr O that it 
wasnt sure that it would be possible to arrange for his requested funds to hit his account on 
a nominated day. 
I can see that Mr O called SW about this withdrawal request on 6 December 2022. SW told 
Mr O that it would begin processing the disinvestment in the new year. But he told SW that 
he felt its suggested timing wouldnt get the money to his account on time. He said it should 
action his request on the 18/19 December 2022 so that it would reach his account on time.
I also note that Mr O called SW again about his withdrawal on 30 December 2022. And then 
again on 6 January 2023 after his chosen payment date had passed. SW wasnt able to give 
Mr O a confirmed date of payment. And simply told him there was a backlog with income 
drawdown payments. So I can see why Mr O was unhappy at this point, especially as the 
late payment might cause him financial issues. Mr O also called SW to chase the payment 
again on 9 January 2023. 
As our investigator noted, Mr Os chosen date was almost straight after the Christmas 
period. So its not surprising that it would prove difficult for SW to disinvest the funds at the 
correct point that the money would be with Mr O on 5 January 2023. 
Mr O had also added a further constraint to his request  the withdrawal mustnt be paid in 
2022  so SW was restricted in when it could take the necessary actions to make the 
payment. SW also said that there were other overseas tax regulations which delayed the 
payment, although Mr O disputes this. 
From what Ive seen, if SW had followed Mr Os instruction on the 6 December 2022 call to 
action his request on 18/19 December 2022, it wouldve been in danger of breaching his 
other requirement that the payment mustnt be made in 2022. Mr O had told SW that he 
would hold it responsible for any tax consequences in that event. 
I can see that SW told Mr O that it may be difficult to meet his exact deadline. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr O ever really felt that SW wouldnt be able to process the withdrawal on 
time. So I agree with our investigator that he suffered a loss of expectation. And that this led 
him to have to make further calls to SW to chase up the payment. SW has paid Mr O £21 interest to compensate him for the loss of use of his funds for the 
period of the payment delay. Its also paid him £50 compensation for the delay itself. I 
consider that this fairly reflects the additional anxiety, distress and inconvenience the late 
payment clearly caused Mr O. 
I also note that SW offered to cover any costs Mr O mightve incurred due to the late 
payment. But as hes told this service he didnt incur any, I dont consider any further redress 
is necessary here.
I finally considered the service Mr O received from SW, including when he asked it for policy 
information. This informed my decision on the appropriate level of distress and 
inconvenience compensation that SW should pay. 
Service issues
Ive covered Mr Os complaint about the suspension of online access earlier in my decision. 
This section will focus on SWs failure to provide him with the information he requested in a 
timely manner. And the difficulty Mr O had getting through to SW on the phone. 
Difficulty getting through to SW on the phone
Mr O complains that it was difficult and time-consuming to get through to SW by phone, And 
that hed faced long call wait times, repeated internal transfers, and been given incorrect 
phone numbers. 
Delayed provision of information
During a call with SW on 10 November 2022, Mr O asked it to send him policy valuations 
showing fund details for each of his two policies. 
I understand that SW issued information for only one of Mr Os policies on 15 November 
2022 by post, as it wasnt at that point possible to email the requested information. This was 
three working days after the request, which I consider reasonable. I understand that Mr O 
still hadnt received this by 6 December 2022. But I agree with our investigator that we cant 
fairly hold SW responsible for any failures in the postage system. I also note that SW made 
Mr O aware that the post may take several days to reach him.
After Mr O told SW on 30 November 2022 that hed not received the requested information, 
it came to light that SW had only posted information about one of his policies. By the start of 
December 2022, SW could now email information to policyholders. So it emailed information 
to Mr O about his other policy on 1 December 2022, but he found that it wasnt detailed 
enough. 
I can see that SW only provided summaries of Mr Os funds at this time. And, while I 
understand why these werent what Mr O wanted, Ive no evidence that he asked for monthly 
statements for both of his policies from August 2022 onwards until 6 December 2022. 
Therefore, while I understand why it wouldve been frustrating for Mr O to have to call SW 
again to clarify what he needed, I cant reasonably say that SW failed to act on his request. 
But I can say that it made a mistake in only posting information about one of his policies.
I can also see that, when Mr O clearly requested on 6 December 2022 monthly statements 
for both of his policies from August 2022 onwards, it took until 11 January 2023 for SW to 
post that information on to him. It also required another call from Mr O on 10 January 2023. 
SW said that due to human error, the letter hadnt been issued by email. The delayed 
provision of the requested information, and sending it by post rather than email, clearly caused avoidable delays to Mr O receiving the information hed requested. 
From what Ive seen, SW made two errors here, both of which led to a delay in Mr O getting 
the information he wanted and caused him inconvenience. However, as I noted earlier, I 
consider that Mr O had other methods available to him to access the information he needed 
to carry out fund analysis. So Im not persuaded that the delay in the provision of the 
requested information rendered him unable to manage his policies, or that it led to a financial 
loss. But I do consider that SW should compensate Mr O for its mistakes and the 
inconvenience they caused him.
Having considered the service issues Mr O faced, I finally considered the level of distress 
and inconvenience compensation I consider fair under the circumstances.
Distress and inconvenience
SW has acknowledged that Mr O faced consistent difficulties trying to contact it by phone. It 
initially offered him £100 compensation in respect of those difficulties. But it has increased its 
offer to a total of £300 for the poor service Mr O received overall. SW said this included 
compensation for the poor quality first final response letter, which had been issued late. It 
also includes compensation for the delayed provision of information.
I understand why Mr O has been angered and frustrated by the call wait times and the 
difficulty in getting through to the correct department. This is especially true given he felt he 
was being forced to go through the phone route for the required information as the online 
access he preferred had been suspended. And as I noted earlier, SW couldve anticipated 
that it would get more calls than normal from those policyholders for whom online access 
wasnt available. And it therefore couldve taken steps to ensure that those policyholders 
could get through to it by phone in a reasonable way.
However, SW has now offered to pay an additional £200, bringing the total compensation 
offered for the distress and inconvenience the poor service he received caused Mr O to 
£300. Based on the impact the poor service has had on him, I consider this to be reasonable 
under the circumstances.
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. And I intend to require SW to pay Mr O an 
additional £200 compensation for the poor service he received.
Response to my provisional decision
SW accepted my provisional decision.
Mr O said that SW hadnt yet provided him with the original terms and conditions of his policy 
from 2006. He said he hadnt received any amendments to his policy. And therefore didnt 
consider that online services could be withdrawn at any time. Mr O wanted SW to provide 
him with the original terms and conditions in force in 2006 so that he could confirm whether 
or not those terms had been breached. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Os comments. But they dont change my decision. Im remain satisfied that 
SW has the right to suspend or terminate online access at any time and for any reason. And 
that it always did have this right under the terms of the policy. Therefore I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Scottish Widows Limited to pay Mr O a further £200 compensation for the poor 
service he received. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Os complaint. Scottish Widows Limited must pay 
Mr O a further £200 compensation for the poor service he received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman