DRN-3013014
The complaint
Mrs T, who is represented by her husband, Mr T, complains that RCI Financial Services 
Limited refused to compensate her for a faulty car.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs T acquired a car funded by a finance agreement with RCI. After 
about a month Mrs T had problems with the cars windows opening unexpectedly which 
caused rain to get in. The car was examined by the dealer and no fault could be found. The 
key fob was changed and this resolved the issue. 
RCI says that there were three possible causes of the windows opening unintentionally, 
water damage to the fob, two key fobs being stored together or pressing two buttons 
together. It says the dealer offered to have the key fobs x-rayed, but this was not pursued. It 
takes the view that none of these possible explanations can be seen as a defect.
Mr T says the car suffered from condensation and it was taken back to the dealer which 
removed all the carpets and the front seats but could find no evidence of water staining. The 
issue persisted and Mr T took videos of the condensation on the window which he sent to 
RCI. 
The dealer carried out further investigations and could find nothing wrong, nor could it 
replicate the problem.  However, as a precautionary measure it replaced the front 
windscreen. 
Mr T says the car has been subject to two recalls, but RCI says that this is not the case, 
rather there were two software updates. Finally, Mr T says there was an issue with the auto 
braking, but RCI has no record of this and I gather that issue is no longer occurring.
After RCI rejected Mrs Ts complaint she brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
consider the issues were ongoing and she couldnt conclude the car was faulty.
Mr T didnt agree and submitted the videos he had sent to RCI in December 2019 and said 
the fault remained.  He said the suggestion the key fob had been water damaged was a 
cover up by the dealer. He said his wife had suffered massive inconvenience in having to 
take the car back to the dealer. He said the damage from the overnight rain had caused 
further faults to add to the original ones. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mrs T but I do not consider I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. RCI is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The initial problem was with the windows opening unexpectedly. After carrying out 
investigations the problem was identified as lying with the key fob. It wasnt x-rayed as had 
been suggested by the dealer so no definitive reason can be given for why it was faulty. RCI, 
after talking to the dealer and the manufacturer has set out three possible causes as I 
outlined above. None of these would suggest that the fob was faulty at the point of sale.
I have to be satisfied that there was a fault when the car was acquired by Mrs T, but I do not 
have any evidence to say that the possible cause of the key fob not working as it should was 
inherent. While it is possible that the fob was faulty at the point of sale the only causes for 
the fault I have been given are due to subsequent issues. As such I cannot safely conclude 
the car was faulty at the point of sale.
Mr T has said the subsequent condensation issues arose as a result of the car window 
opening and letting rain in. If that were the case as I have not been able to conclude the 
window fault was present at the point of dale it follows I cannot conclude the subsequent 
issue is an inherent fault. I have noted the videos supplied by Mr T and I can see the car was 
suffering from condensation which took some seven minutes to clear. That was in December 
2019 and while he says this issue persist I have not seen any recent evidence of the 
problem. 
It seems the auto brake issue has been resolved and I am satisfied that there have not been 
any recalls for the car, but the two that Mr T has mentioned were simply software updates.  
In conclusion I recognise that there have been issues with the car, but I cannot say that 
these were the result of the car being faulty at the point of sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman