DRN-3497542
The complaint
Mr S complains through his representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118
Money lent him money on high cost loans that he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr S with the following loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayment*Status
Loan 1 22/6/2020 £1,500 24 months £122 repaid
Loan 2 21/2/2021 £1,000 24 months £74 open
*rounded up
Mr S said that he was in a very poor financial position when he took out the loans with 118 
118 Money. And that he fell behind with existing payments as a result of having to pay the 
loan instalments. He also had to take out further loans so that he could keep up with 
essential payments.
118 118 Money said that its procedures ensured, in line with FCA (Financial Conduct 
Authority) rules, that Mr S as an applicant was creditworthy and could afford the loan he 
had applied for. It has supplied copies of the credit checks it did for both loans and the 
application forms completed by Mr S. It used standard industry verification checks to 
confirm Mr Ss status and income. It assessed both loans as being affordable.
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think the checks carried out by 118 118 Money were 
proportionate, based on the evidence in the credit reports he said that 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have lent Mr S the money. And as a result it should repay the interest and any 
charges relating to both loans.
118 118 Money disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision in respect of loan 2. It 
said the credit report for loan 2 showed that Mr S had taken only one account in the six 
months up to the loan. It also showed that there were no new defaults on the credit file within
the 12 months. The credit file also showed that Mr S had two credit cards he wasnt using at
all, and another that was being used a small amount. This demonstrated that he wasnt
credit hungry or reliant on credit to get by. It further noted that Mr S still had two outstanding
defaults, however he had settled another.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought 118 118 Money had made a fair 
lending decision in respect of loan 2. 
Neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr S would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I have to decide in this case:
Whether 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks.
If it did whether those checks showed a) that it shouldnt have lent the money as on 
the face of them the loan was unaffordable or b) that it should have been alerted to carry out a more thorough assessment of Mr Ss circumstances eg by asking for bank 
statements.
In the event of b) whether there is evidence to show that the said assessment 
would have shown that the loan was unaffordable.
loan 1
118 118 Money has accepted our adjudicators view in respect of this loan. So I wont make 
any further comment, but will make directions below accordingly.
loan 2
The credit report in respect of loan 1 showed that Mr S had a credit card with a balance of
£490, defaulted in 2016. At the time of this loans application, Mr S had reduced the 
balance to £348. He had had a defaulted loan on his record at the time of applying for loan 
1 but Mr S had now paid this. The other default was a £20 telecommunications debt. And 
he had an old CCJ (County court judgment) from 2016 for £296 which appeared to be still 
outstanding.
Mr S had taken out a new loan in July 2020 i.e. a month after loan 1, this was for around
£4,500, the monthly repayments being £164. However he had paid off a previous loan (not 
the defaulted loan). He did have a number of credit cards, one of which was near its limit of
£2,000. Two other cards had balances on them respectively of £413 and £58. He also had 
two cards with no balances on them.
Taking all his credit commitments together, and allowing a monthly payment of 3% of the 
balances on his credit cards, with the new loan payments, these amounted to £334, around 
17% of his declared monthly income of £2,015. His outgoings including rent amounted to 
around £920, leaving a monthly disposable income of about £760. I think this indicates that 
the loan was affordable to Mr S.
I think that the checks carried out were proportionate, and I cant see anything in those 
checks that might have alerted 118 118 Money to carry out any further assessment of his 
circumstances. Mr Ss bank account was not and hadnt been in overdraft at the time 
leading up to both applications.
Lastly if Mr S or his representatives seek to argue that 118 118 Money should have 
carried out further checks on his financial circumstances, I should point out that our 
adjudicator did ask for copy bank statements which havent been supplied. So Ive seen 
no evidence outside that supplied by 118 118 Money of Mr Ss financial circumstances at 
the time of applying for loan 1 or 2.
I think, in respect of loan 2, that 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision.
As neither party has commented on them, my provisional findings are now final and form 
part of this final decision.
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint in part.Mr S has had the capital sum for loan 1 and its fair that he repays this. So I will require 
118 118 Money to do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 1.
Treat any payments made by Mr S as payments towards the capital amount of £1,500.
If Mr S has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information, if appropriate, about loan 1 from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
In respect of loan 2, I dont uphold the complaint..
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Madison CF UK Limited trading as
118 118 Money to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman