DRN-4364338
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim he 
made under his motor insurance policy. He is also unhappy with the service provided.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr R was in a car accident in October 2022, and he made a claim to Advantage. Mr R 
explains he was driving on a residential road and slowed down, checked his mirrors, and 
then indicated left to turn into a driveway. A car from behind hit his vehicle on the nearside 
front door/wheel arch. He says his car suffered a minor scratch and the third partys car was 
scratched on the drivers side wing mirror and wheel arch.
Advantage was also given the third-party drivers version from her insurer which stated Mr R 
was looking to turn right and then swung left across the path of their vehicle and it was Mr R 
who was at fault.
Advantage explained to Mr R, in the absence of any independent evidence, due to the 
similarities in the versions of events and both parties holding the other at fault, there wouldnt 
be enough to defend Mr R from all liability. However, Advantage explained it would be able 
to defend a 50/50 split of liability. 
The next communication Mr R says he received was to inform him Advantage had accepted 
full liability for the third partys claim. So, Mr R complained to Advantage  itd paid out 
money without informing him or carrying out a proper investigation. He says Advantage 
should cover the increase in his car insurance premium. 
Advantage explained the third partys insurer intended to take it to court over the claim. It 
wasnt confident itd be successful in a defence at court, even of a 50/50 split of liability. So, 
it settled the matter to avoid escalating the costs on the claim, as it was entitled to do under 
the policy terms. Advantage reassured Mr R it wouldnt pay out if it deemed the cost to be 
excessive. It paid £70 to Mr R as compensation for its poor communication and failure to 
push to settle the matter on a 50/50 basis and explained the claims team had been asked to 
reopen Mr Rs file to do this. However, this would still be recorded as a fault claim which 
would affect his policy. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this and came to this service for an independent review.
When reviewing its file to send it to this service, Advantage explained it reconsidered its 
decision and didnt agree with the case handler whod said it wouldve been able to 
successfully argue a 50/50 split. It explained the vehicle damage and version of events from 
both parties, including diagrams from Mr R and photographs taken immediately after the 
incident, supported the more likely version of events was that of the third party.
The Investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. They explained 
Advantage was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit, in accordance with the policy terms. 
And they hadnt seen any evidence to show the decision taken by Advantage was unfair. 
Mr R disagreed. He doesnt feel questions asked by him have been answered by Advantage. 
And says no one has contacted him from the claims team about pushing for a 50/50 split, as 
mentioned in Advantages response to his complaint. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
consider are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
Investigator reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint in this matter. 
Ill explain why.
Firstly, I acknowledge Mr R has strong views about what happened in the accident. But its 
not the role of this Service to determine who is responsible for an accident  decisions on 
this are best dealt with by a court of law. 
What Im deciding in this matter is whether Advantage has acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the policy which set out the agreement between the parties. And Im 
satisfied it did. I say this because the terms allow Advantage to conduct and settle a claim as 
it sees fit. It therefore doesnt need Mr Rs approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a 
claim or make a payment to a third party. That might mean it makes a decision the 
policyholder disagrees with, as has happened here. For example, it may not try to recover its 
outlay or settle a claim from the third party or their insurer. 
I have, however, gone on to consider whether Advantage made a reasonable decision in 
settling the claim as it did, based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
Advantage explained it accepted liability for the third partys claim on Mr Rs policy based on 
the vehicles damage and what each party said, including the evidence from Mr R. Having 
taken this into account, along with the Highway Code, it was satisfied the evidence was 
more consistent with the third partys version of events. It also considered its experience of 
how courts view such matters and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. Whilst 
Mr R doesnt agree with this approach, Advantage didnt consider it was a case it would win 
 even on a 50/50 split  so accepted liability to limit the prospect of costs increasing if the 
third party took the matter to court. Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded 
Advantage was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it did this.
I understand Mr R is unhappy decisions were made without his consent. But, as explained 
above, its ultimately for Advantage to decide how to settle the claim, acting fairly and 
reasonably. That said, Advantage accepts its communications with Mr R to let him know 
what was happening were not satisfactory nor was its failure to push for a 50/50 split when it 
had told Mr R it would do so. To recognise this, it has paid Mr R £70 compensation and I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this his complaint. I say this, not 
because I find Advantage shouldve pushed for a 50/50 split but because it shouldnt have 
told Mr R this is what it would do  throughout the claim and in its response to his complaint - 
and then failed to carry this out nor explain to him the position had changed.In summary, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything further in relation to this matter.
I recognise Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Advantage  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman