DRN-4361659
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation
to his boiler and central heating insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has had a boiler and central heating insurance policy with British Gas since 2011 for a 
property he lets out. The policy includes an annual service of the boiler. The annual service 
was carried out in 2021. British Gas says the next one was booked for 15 December 2022 
along with a landlords gas safety check. Mr A says it was only the safety check that was 
booked, even though the service was due from October 2022. There is also a dispute about 
what happened on that day and later.
It is agreed that British Gass engineer that attended on 15 December 2022 said the boiler 
was faulty. British Gas says another engineer attended on 19 December 2022 and found the 
room thermostat was faulty and rewired it. British Gas says it was called out for another fault 
on 13 January 2023 and carried out a repair on the boiler by replacing the thermostat, seals 
and actuator. Whereas Mr A says that there was a failed appointment on 16 December 
2022; an engineer did come out on 19 December 2022 but he didnt do any repairs to the 
boiler and said he needed a new part. The engineer returned on 13 January 2023, to carry 
out the repair but had to return three days later to complete the repair.
It is agreed that the boiler service was later booked to be carried out on 16 February 2023. 
British Gas says that at this visit the engineer found a hole in the flue, that the manifold was 
rotting and there were high levels of CO2 gas. The flue was not covered by the policy and 
the boiler was last manufactured in 2011, so British Gas said it could not carry out any repair 
to the flue; it capped the boiler off and recommended that Mr A have it replaced. Mr A is very 
unhappy about this. He says that if the boiler had been serviced properly in October 2022 as 
expected, the boiler would not have broken down. Instead, it was written off without warning. 
Mr A says his tenant was without heating and hot water, she has young children and was 
undergoing cancer treatment at the time; and she was left with an excessive bill as British 
Gass engineer left the boiler running constantly. Mr A also says he had to raise emergency 
funds to install a new boiler. In addition, Mr A says the engineer went back to the property 
uninvited a few days after he had replaced the boiler to ask the tenant what he had installed 
and the engineer told the tenant it was not good enough compared to what he had 
recommended, which he found unprofessional.
Mr A has asked that British Gas refund the annual service charge, as he did not receive the
service; pay for the replacement boiler, which was condemned due to its negligence; and
compensate his tenant for the electricity bill and trouble caused to her.
British Gas accepts that it did not complete the annual service in December 2022 but says it
has to prioritise repairs over service visits. British Gas also says that the hole in the flue
would not have been prevented by an annual service, as it was caused over time by normal
wear and tear. It says that if the annual service had taken place sooner, the outcome would
have been exactly the same: the hole in the flue would have been identified and the boiler
would have needed to be replaced. British Gas also says its engineers have been advising
Mr A to replace the boiler since 2015.
British Gas did however, offer Mr A £100 compensation for the fact the annual service was
not completed in 2022.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be
upheld, as he was satisfied that the fact the annual service did not take place in late 2022
had not caused the boiler flue to deteriorate and the need for the boiler to be replaced. The
Investigator concluded that the compensation already offered by British Gas was fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr A did not accept the Investigators assessment. He said:
The tenant had no heating or hot water between 15 and 19 December 2022.
The engineer left the boiler on continuously on 19 December 2020, so his tenant had
heating and hot water from then but he did not reattend until 13 January 2023 to do 
the repair, which meant the tenant incurred a much higher bill than normal. He had to 
share part of this cost.
Several appointments were missed or wasted, as British Gass engineers were not
appropriately qualified to do the repair, or didnt have the right parts.
He was not previously told that he would need to change the boiler, despite the
Investigator saying this is recorded on British Gass file.
British Gas left the boiler in a dangerous state with risk of electrocution by bypassing
and tapping equipment during one of the visits. Doing this will accumulate in poor
performance and unnecessary breakdown of the system.
No issue with the flue was identified during the landlords gas safety check and it was
only after British Gas neglected the boiler and started bypassing parts in the control
system of the boiler that the issues arose.
Mr A is also unhappy that British Gas has chased him for money it says is owed for policy
cancellation charges. He says the boiler was replaced and he cancelled the policy, so there
is nothing due.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on the complaint in August 2023. I have copied the main part of my 
provisional findings below: 
There is a dispute about what exactly happened at each appointment but the main 
issue is that the annual service did not take place within the policy year (i.e. between 
October 2021 and October 2022). This is not in dispute. British Gas has offered £100 
already for the fact the annual service did not occur in 2022.
Mr A is adamant that if the service had taken place, the boiler would not have needed 
to be replaced, or he could have been urged to replace the boiler earlier, rather than 
in an emergency situation as happened.
British Gas said it had advised Mr A he would need a new boiler for a number of 
years, which Mr A denies. I have no reason to doubt what Mr A says about this but I do not think I need to make any finding as to whether he was so advised or not, as I 
do not think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
British Gas attended in December 2022 but there was an issue with the boiler. The 
annual service could not be done until the repairs that had been identified had been 
repaired. British Gass records show that it rewired the thermostat on 19 December 
2022 and carried out some further repairs in January 2023. I have no reason to doubt 
those records.
Mr A says that British Gas bypassed equipment which left the boiler unsafe and 
caused deterioration of the heating system. It is not clear but I assume that it is the 
rewiring done on 19 December 2022 that Mr A refers to. He has provided a photo of 
a cracked switch cover plate, which appears not to be attached to anything properly 
but it is not clear where this is positioned or whether it is operational.
I have not seen any independent or other convincing evidence that the rewiring work 
(or any other repairs done by British Gas) caused the boiler to be unsafe or caused 
its condition to deteriorate. The repairs carried out in January 2023 do not appear to 
be related to the rewiring of the thermostat; and the reason the boiler was later 
condemned was because of corrosion of the flue, which it seems to me would not be 
related either. I do not therefore consider that it has been established as likely that 
the rewiring caused, or contributed to, the breakdown or condemnation of the boiler.
The boiler flue was condemned in February 2023. However, there is no independent
evidence to suggest that if the annual service had been carried out four months 
earlier, the flue would not have been in this condition. The corrosion of the flue is 
likely to have happened over time and it seems to me that, even if the annual service 
had been carried out earlier, the outcome would be the same that the issue with the 
flue would have been found and Mr A would have had to arrange urgent repair or 
replacement. I do not therefore consider that the delay in carrying out the annual 
service caused the problem with the flue and the boiler or the trouble to Mr A of this.
It also seems reasonable to conclude that the boiler flue was in satisfactory condition 
during the service in 2021 (otherwise it would have been picked up then). So even if 
Mr A had been advised in general terms then that his boiler was relatively old and 
should be replaced sooner rather than later, Ive not seen anything convincing that, 
even though it was working safely and properly at that time  he would have done 
so. In my experience most people wait until there is an issue.
Having considered everything, I do not therefore agree that British Gas is responsible 
for the cost of the new boiler.
Mr A is also unhappy with the way the claim was handled. He says there were 
delays, appointments were missed and parts werent available so some other 
appointments were wasted. Mr A also says that British Gas left the boiler on 
continuously, resulting in a high gas bill.
Mr A has provided a copy of the job sheet left at the property on 15 December 2022, 
which says an appointment was made for the next day. So there is evidence of one 
missed appointment on 16 December 2022.
With regard to the high gas bill, British Gass record of the attendance on 13 January 
2023 says that the previous engineer opened the mid-valve to manual (which I 
understand would ensure a supply of heating and hot water) and that a part would be 
needed but then closed the job. So I agree with Mr A that it seems British Gas did tell the tenant theyd be back to complete the repair but did not do so until 13 January 
2023. Ive not seen any explanation why this took so long.
Mr A also said he had to share some of the cost of the excess fuel bill caused during 
this time. The action taken by British Gas on 19 December 2022 with regard to the 
valve might mean that either hot water or heating was being provided, when the 
household might only have needed one. If the tenant did not have heating and hot 
water, it seems to me reasonable to have done this at the time but it also seems to 
me that British Gas should have returned sooner than it did to repair this issue. I am 
satisfied that this delay could have resulted in a higher than usual gas bill. However, I 
have not seen any documentary evidence of the bill Mr A has referred to, how it 
differs from the tenants usual bills, or Mr As contribution to it.
I have no power to award compensation to any person other than Mr A. However, if 
Mr A wants to provide further evidence about any contribution he made to this bill, 
then I will consider it before issuing my final decision.
Mr A has also said his tenant had no heating and hot water for some time due to 
delays by British Gas and has asked that British Gas compensate her for this. 
However as stated, I cannot therefore make any award in respect of financial loss, 
distress or inconvenience to his tenant, which also includes any inconvenience 
caused by missed or wasted appointments.
Mr A also says a British Gas engineer returned to the property and criticised to his 
tenant the boiler he had installed. If this happened, I can understand why this would 
be upsetting. However, I have no independent evidence to support this and even if I 
accept this happened, I do not consider there is any award or direction I can 
reasonably make. I have not seen any [evidence]  that this caused any material 
loss to Mr A.
Finally, Mr A has also referred to some debt collection letters he has received from 
British Gas. I am unable to consider this as part of this complaint, as this has not 
been raised before and British Gas has not had the chance to respond to Mr As 
complaint about this, as far as I am aware.
Having considered everything provided to me, I think the offer of compensation of 
£100 is reasonable to reflect the trouble caused to Mr A by this matter including that 
the annual service was not carried out in 2022 and any trouble to him of the missed 
appointment and delays.
I therefore provisionally decided that I did not intend to uphold this complaint and that British 
Gass offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr A has responded and confirmed he does not accept my provisional decision. He has 
made a number of further submissions. I have considered everything he has said but have 
set out his main points below:  His boiler was always serviced at the same time as the gas safety check and it was 
only not done in December 2022 as British Gas sent someone that was not qualified 
to do the service despite it being overdue. 
The visit on 13 January 2023 was not a call out for repair. This was to fix the 
servicing of the boiler after first coming with the correct part on 19 December 2023; 
and that appointment was only necessary because they did not turn up on 16 
December 2022. 
The tenant has confirmed that British Gas never advised the boiler needed changing 
in the nine years shes been there. 
If the flue problem was usual wear and tear, why was he not told about it in previous 
services. It is obvious that not servicing the boiler for 17 months and then leaving it to 
fire continuously for weeks could be the reason for serious damage to the unit, 
especially the flue system. 
He provided a letter from his tenant about the harassment from the British Gas 
engineer following him replacing the boiler. It appears he condemned his boiler to get 
him to buy a new one form British Gas. 
His boiler should have been serviced every 12 months. He paid £652.89 to British 
Gas between the last annual service and when the boiler was written off. No service 
was carried out in that time, so it is fair that he should be reimbursed this amount, as 
British Gass negligence of his boiler led to its breakdown.
The broken and taped switch box is part of the control unit of the boiler which is in the 
room with the water tank. 
He paid British Gas until February 2023 and it is inhumane that it harassed him for 
bills the same month. He asks that this be looked at. 
He had to spend a large amount of money on the new boiler which had not been 
planned for. 
He has provided evidence that the tenant had a gas bill £60 higher due to the boiler 
being left on constantly for weeks; and an electricity bill around £30 higher as a result 
of the problem with the boiler. He also provided evidence he paid the tenant £30 
towards the electricity bill.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says again that that only reason the boiler was not serviced at the initial visit in 
December 2022 is because British Gas sent someone unqualified to do the service and that 
the visit on 13 January 2023 was related to the service and not a repair visit. 
I set out in my provisional decision that British Gass records show the service could not be 
done in December 2022 as there was an issue with the boiler and the repairs needed to be 
completed before it could service the boiler. British Gass records also show that it rewired 
the thermostat on 19 December 2022 and carried out some further repairs in January 2023. I 
said I have no reason to doubt those records and no further evidence has been provided to 
make me change my mind about this. 
I also said I did not have any reason to doubt what Mr A had said about not being advised to 
replace the boiler at any previous service visit but that it also didnt make any difference to 
the outcome of this complaint. I remain of this opinion.Mr A says it is obvious that the delay in servicing the boiler  which was around four months 
given it was due in October 2022  and leaving it running constantly for several weeks would 
have caused the flue to be so damaged that it was condemned. However, there is no 
convincing evidence that if the boiler service had been carried out in October 2022, the flue 
would not have been in the condition it was in February 2023. 
Corrosion to a flue is something that happens over time. It might not have been present in 
October 2021, when the boiler was last serviced. So there is no evidence to suggest that 
British Gas should have given Mr A any advice about this in 2021. I also remain of the 
opinion that there is no convincing evidence that the boiler flue was only condemned in 
February 2023 because the boiler was not serviced four months earlier. 
Mr A has also sent in another picture of the cracked switch plate. It is still not possible to tell 
if this is operational or the position of the switch in relation to the boiler. Mr A says it is 
positioned in the room with the water tank. As stated in my provisional decision, I have not 
seen any independent or other convincing evidence that the rewiring work caused any 
problem with the boiler. The repairs that needed to be done to the boiler do not appear to be 
related to the rewiring. 
Given all this, I remain of the opinion that even if the annual service had been carried out in 
October 2022, it is likely the issue with the flue would have just have been found earlier and 
the boiler would still have needed to be replaced. 
With regard to the electricity and gas bills, Mr A has provided evidence from his tenant that 
she incurred an additional £30 in electricity charges for the week the boiler was faulty (12  
18 December 2022) compared to the previous week, and the following week. Mr A has also 
provided evidence that he paid her £30 for this on 24 December 2022. 
However, the increased electricity charges for that week would have been as a result of the 
insured problem with the boiler, not as a result of anything British Gas did wrong. While there 
was a missed appointment on 16 December 2022, it seems to me it would have taken a few 
days at least to repair the boiler and the delays in repair were from 19 December 2022 
onwards. I do not therefore consider that British Gas should be required to reimburse Mr A 
the £30 he paid his tenant for increased electricity costs between 12 and 18 December 
2022.  
Mr As tenant also provided copies of her gas bill, which was around £60 higher in December 
2022 than in November 2022. She said this was because in order to get hot water she also 
had to have the heating on, while waiting for British Gas to complete the repairs. However, 
even if I were satisfied that she incurred this additional cost due to something British Gas did 
wrong, there is no evidence that Mr A made any contribution to this cost. As stated in my 
provisional decision, I cannot make any award in favour of Mr As tenant and in the absence 
of any evidence that Mr A is out of pocket because of this, I do not think I can reasonably 
ask British Gas to make any payment in this regard. 
Finally, Mr As tenant wrote in an email that British Gass engineer returned to the property 
and told her that they should have had a combi boiler fitted, as thats what all the other 
houses in the street have. I do not think this amounts to harassment and I do not consider 
there is any award or direction I can reasonably make in relation to this, as I have not seen 
any evidence that this caused any material loss to Mr A.
Having considered everything provided to me, I still think the offer of compensation of £100 
is reasonable to reflect the trouble caused to Mr A by this matter including that the annual 
service was not carried out in 2022 and any trouble to him of the missed appointment and 
delays.My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr A £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that British 
Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman