DRN-2362794
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy because she thinks Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her 
contents insurance.
What happened
Miss A had home insurance with Barclays for a long time. She went to a branch to renew her 
policy and Barclays suggested adding contents insurance. The representative explained the 
main parts of what the policy covered, including loss through scams. Miss A added contents 
insurance to her policy.
Later, when Miss A was renovating her home, she agreed to let a charity take her furniture 
for storage. However, the people who had approached her werent from a charity and they 
stole the furniture. Miss A made a claim under the policy for the theft, but the insurer 
declined her claim under the exclusion of theft by deception.
Miss A complained to Barclays that it had mis-sold the policy to her because she 
remembered being told she was covered for scams, but she wasnt. Barclays responded to 
say it provided Miss A with the terms and conditions of the policy and advised her to read 
them to make sure it covered her needs. Barclays didnt think it had mis-sold the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. After looking at how the sale 
wouldve been carried out and the documents provided to Miss A, our investigator thought 
Miss A had a responsibility to let Barclays know if she didnt understand the information 
shed been given.
Miss A didnt agree. She said Barclays definitely told her shed be covered against scams 
because she didnt know what the word meant and had to ask. And Miss A said the police 
told her it was still theft regardless of whether it was by fraud, scam or breaking into her 
home.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Miss A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint.
Firstly, Id like to make it clear that my decision is about whether Barclays mis-sold the 
contents policy to Miss A. I have not looked at whether it was fair for the insurer (a different 
company) to decline her claim under the policy. Thats a separate matter which shed need 
to raise with the insurer.
The issue here is whether Barclays did, or didnt do, something wrong when it sold the 
contents policy to Miss A. Ive looked at the usual sales procedure Barclays follows, which 
includes explaining the main things the policy doesnt cover. Miss A spoke to an experienced 
member of staff so I think its unlikely that they wouldnt have followed the usual procedure. 
And this is supported by Miss As recollection of the conversation because she mentions 
some of the key points that Barclays told her about. 
The concern here is whether Barclays told Miss A she would be covered against scams. She 
says it did and she wouldnt have taken out the policy if it didnt. Ive looked at the policy and 
I can see that it excludes scams (deception) in certain circumstances but covers others. The 
policy states:
We will not cover:
3. Theft by deception
theft where someone deceives you to steal your property (eg tricks you into handing 
it over or buys it without making a proper payment). This doesnt apply where they 
only use deception to get into your home to steal property.
So, I think its likely that Barclays mentioned scams as Miss A recalls, but that may have 
been to say what is and isnt covered. Miss As first language isnt English, and she 
struggled to understand everything said at the time. Barclays gave her a copy of the terms 
and conditions and advised her to read them, so she had the opportunity to make sure the 
policy provided the cover she needed. As the scam cover was important to her, I think it was 
Miss As responsibility to ask for a copy of the terms in her first language, which Barclays 
wouldve provided. 
Ive noted Miss As comment that the police say it was theft, regardless of how it was done. 
That may be the case, but its up to the insurer to decide whether the type of theft is covered 
under her policy and that doesnt affect my decision about Barclays.
In summary, I think its likely that Barclays followed its usual sales procedure and gave Miss 
A the main information about the policy. While I understand Miss A wouldve been upset that 
her insurer declined her claim for theft by deception, I dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong when it sold the policy to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman