DRN-2070066
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc wont refund a disputed transaction made on his 
account. He says hes not responsible for spending this money.
Background
On 6 December 2019, a transaction of £1,957 was made from Mr Ss current account, to a 
home store which he says wasnt him. He visited his TSB branch on 9 December 2019 to 
report his card was missing and withdraw cash. When Mr S was provided with his balance 
and details of recent transactions, he raised a fraud claim. 
What Mr S has said  
Mr S hasnt been able to recall specifically when he lost his card, when he last used it, or 
when he realised the card was missing. He explained that, through his occupation, he often 
has cash available to him, so sometimes doesnt use his current account for periods of time.
He said he visited his TSB branch on 9 December 2019 to withdraw cash to purchase 
Christmas presents and found the money hed expected to have in his account had been 
spent. Mr S has said he thinks he was in court on the day of the disputed transaction.
Mr S initially made a fraud claim covering several transactions, dating from 12 October 2019. 
These included payments to a phone service provider, an electrical supplies store, home 
stores and cash withdrawals. Mr S received a refund from the electrical supplies store 
himself  he says he knows the store workers and they identified he hadnt made the 
transaction, so were able to reimburse him. 
Mr S has said he first noticed the disputed account activity from October 2019 when 
checking his statements, but due to living a busy life he hadnt reported these. Since bringing 
the complaint to our service, hes asked we only consider the one transaction made for 
£1,957, as his recollections arent clear for the other transactions.
Mr S hasnt been able to explain how someone might have gained access to his card or PIN. 
Hes said that he sometimes keeps his card in his van and that someone in a position of trust 
might have betrayed him. Hes not been able to pinpoint how anyone would know his PIN 
but has suggested he may have been shoulder surfed. Hes also referred to his PIN being 
written on his card, disguised within his phone number.
Mr S has also said his van was damaged around the same time as the disputed transaction, 
but hes not specified how this occurred or whether his card may have been compromised as 
a result.
Mr S has said that his Christmas was ruined by this money being taken. Hes also explained 
that TSB has since closed his account down which has inconvenienced him.
Mr S has said hed been involved in a road traffic accident earlier that same year which had 
also affected him.
What TSB has said 
TSB has said it declined Mr Ss claim as it considered it most likely that Mr S made the 
transaction himself. When considering all transactions initially raised by Mr S, TSB said there 
were no declined transactions due to insufficient funds, and only one balance check after 
some transactions had already been completed. TSB has said this suggests the person 
using the card was aware of the available funds. Its also said there were no failed PIN 
attempts, which would suggest the PIN was known to the individual.
TSB has said when questioning Mr S, the information he provided was inconsistent  for 
example he referred to his van being broken into but provided conflicting information on 
where the damage was to the van. TSB has also said Mr S initially claimed that hed only left 
his card in his van once, then later said he may have done it on other occasions. 
As TSB determined that Mr S was liable for the transaction, it made the decision to close his 
account following 60 days notice.
As TSB were unable to resolve Mr Ss complaint, Mr S brought the complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered everything Mr S had told us, as well as everything TSB provided. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was a reasonable 
explanation as to how payments were made without Mr Ss consent, or how Mr Ss PIN had 
been compromised.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
My further investigation
When the complaint was passed to me, I had some further questions for Mr S. I queried 
transactions that occurred before the one in dispute, to determine when Mr S last used his 
card, but Mr S explained that his recollections were sketchy.
I asked if he could provide more information on how he received a refund from the electrical 
supplies store. He explained a transaction had been made but the item purchased was still 
waiting for collection. Mr S said the store agreed Mr S hadnt been in on the day of the 
disputed transaction so refunded the payment and kept the item.
I explained that Mr S had said on several occasions hed been betrayed by someone he 
trusted. I asked if he had entrusted his PIN to anyone, but he confirmed he hadnt. He 
suggested a colleague may have seen him enter his PIN when paying for goods at 
merchants.
I asked Mr S further questions about the road traffic accident hed been involved in as Mr S 
had previously told us he was still suffering following the accident. I asked whether there 
were any ongoing health conditions, or use of medication from the accident, that may affect 
his memory or ability to manage an account. Mr S confirmed there wasnt. Mr S also said he 
couldnt provide any evidence of being in court on the day of the disputed transaction.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S clearly feels very strongly about this complaint. But from whats been said and provided 
so far, theres not much common ground about exactly what happened or how it might have 
happened. Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), I reach my findings on balance  
in other words, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in the light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Did Mr S authorise the disputed payments?
The relevant regulations here are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 which detail the
liability for transactions that take place on a consumer's account. TSB can normally hold
Mr S liable for transactions on his account if the evidence suggests its more likely than not 
that he did make the transaction, or if he authorised someone else to make it, or if he failed 
to keep his account safe - either by displaying a very high degree of carelessness or by 
intentionally failing to keep his card and PIN safe.
Ive considered the banks technical records to understand how the disputed payment was 
made. The banks evidence shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
transaction. But all that shows is that the payment was properly authenticated, which isnt 
enough on its own for TSB to hold Mr S liable. I also need to consider whether Mr S 
consented to the transaction. So, Ive gone on to think about the circumstances around the 
transaction and whether Mr S gave his consent to the payment being made.
One of the difficulties in this case is its not very clear exactly what happened or how it 
happened. Mr S hasnt been able to provide information that is key to the complaint, such as 
which transactions he definitely did make, when his card was last in his possession, or who 
might have had access to it. So, Ive got to consider what I think is likely to have happened 
here, and how Mr S was involved.
While Mr S is now only complaining about one transaction, Ive considered earlier 
transactions made in October 2019 when attempting to determine what has happened. Mr S 
initially disputed transactions for phone credit on a network that wasnt his own. I can see 
that other than the two payments Mr S initially disputed, there were no other payments made 
to this phone network. These transactions were also completed late at night, which is out of 
the ordinary compared to Mr Ss usual spending habits. I think its more likely than not that 
these transactions werent completed by Mr S. However, there are undisputed transactions 
that occur between these and the disputed transaction still in question, which suggests a 
third party was able to use Mr Ss card and return it without him noticing. 
As I only have limited recollections from Mr S, its hard to determine how someone might be 
able to access Mr Ss card on more than one occasion and also know his PIN. From what Mr 
S has been able to tell me, I think the most likely scenario is that the disputed transaction 
was carried out by a colleague who was able to access Mr Ss card from his van on more 
than one occasion without Mr Ss knowledge. I think this is also supported by the transaction 
Mr S was refunded for, which was linked to his line of work.
Although I consider that Mr S most likely didnt authorise the transaction, I still need to think 
about if hes been grossly negligent, or failed with intent to keep his personalised security 
details safe.Mr S has said he noticed previous unusual activity on his account statements but didnt raise 
this with his bank as he leads a busy life. As these transactions seem to have begun in 
October 2019 and the disputed transaction wasnt until December 2019, I dont think Mr S 
has acted with a reasonable level of care to keep his account safe. 
In addition, someone also appears to have taken and replaced Mr Ss card on more than 
one occasion. Mr S has suggested the card was kept, at times, in his van which he gave lifts 
to colleagues in. As someone appears to have been able to take and replace the card, 
undetected by Mr S on several occasions, I think its likely the card was left somewhere 
easily visible and accessible in his van. On this basis I think its more likely than not that Mr 
S has failed to keep his card safe. 
Its not clear how Mr Ss PIN came to be compromised. Hes suggested he couldve been 
shoulder surfed but has also said the PIN was written on the back of his card, disguised 
within his phone number. Without knowing who has accessed Mr Ss card, or when this first 
happened, its difficult to reach a finding on how Mr Ss PIN was most likely to have been 
first compromised. However, by recording the PIN on the card in an easily detectable format, 
I think Mr S has enabled anyone who may know him (and his genuine phone number) to 
uncover his PIN and has therefore also failed to keep this information safe.
I understand Mr S is unhappy that TSB has closed his account following its investigation of 
his complaint. TSBs terms and conditions state it can close an account for any reason, 
providing it gives two months notice. From the evidence Ive seen, it appears TSB decided 
to send Mr Ss account for closure on 12 December 2019. Mr S withdrew the remaining 
funds in his account on 20 January 2020 and the account was closed at this time in the 
branch, the reason quoted as account no longer required  so I think its more likely than 
not that Mr S decided to close his account at this point in anticipation of TSB closing it. As a 
result, I think TSB has acted within its terms and conditions, by closing the account with prior 
warning. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for and that hes suffered a considerable 
loss here  but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think TSB is liable for the loss. So, 
while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I dont think it would be fair to ask TSB to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman