DRN-3535893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that TSB Bank plc wont agree to a nine-year extension to their 
mortgage term. To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs M want TSB to honour what they were 
told on 20 August 2019  which is that they could have a nine-year term extension on an 
initial two-year fixed rate.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 20 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr and Mrs M being identified.
Briefly, in May 2008, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser, 
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with TSB. They borrowed £239,000 on an interest-only 
basis over a term of eleven years. The mortgage term came to an end in May 2019. TSB 
informally extended the repayment date to May 2020. In 2019 Mr and Mrs M asked TSB to 
extend the term for a further nine years. 
They sent in documentation in April 2019, but TSB didnt receive this. The information was 
received again on 31 July 2019 and there were various telephone calls throughout August 
2019 to discuss the request. 
Initially the adviser Mr M spoke to on 20 August 2019 recommended a term extension of 
nine years on an initial two-year fixed rate. However, underwriters declined the application. 
This was because Mr M was already retired and the only earned income  Mrs Ms  wasnt 
sufficient to meet affordability requirements. Although TSB noted Mr and Mrs M had 
substantial investments of more than £1.2 million, Mr and Mrs M also said that they did not 
want to use any of these to pay off the mortgage. Mr and Mrs M thought that the returns from 
their investments would exceed any interest charged on the mortgage, in addition to which 
they intended to use income generated from their investments to maintain their lifestyle. 
TSB would not extend the mortgage term. The bank considered returns on investments to be 
high risk income which didnt meet its lending criteria. In addition, TSB noted Mr and Mrs M 
had the means to repay the mortgage, but were choosing not to do so. As a result, TSB did 
not agree to the application to extend the mortgage term.
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint against TSB. They were unhappy the application was 
declined. They said that on 20 August 2019 they were led to believe by TSB that the 
application had been approved and so were concerned that underwriters could override what 
theyd been told by a mortgage adviser. 
In its final response letter TSB acknowledged that Mr and Mrs M should have been told that 
their application had been declined at the Decision in Principle stage; instead the mortgage 
adviser overrode the system and told Mr M that he was recommending a nine-year term 
extension with an initial two-year fixed rate. TSB accepted that it also should have told 
Mr and Mrs M that their application would need to be considered by underwriters. TSB paid 
compensation of £25 for this. The bank, however, maintained that its decision to decline the 
application was one it was entitled to make.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that TSB had given fair consideration to the application. He noted 
TSB had looked at whether the application was in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests. However, 
he was satisfied TSB was entitled to decide that Mr and Mrs Ms strategy that investment 
income would generate a higher rate of interest than the rate charged on the mortgage was 
risky. Consequently, the investigator thought TSB had reasonably declined the term 
extension.
Mr M, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, disagreed with the investigators 
findings. Hes made several points which I summarise below.
The complaint is not about TSBs right to determine suitability of the mortgage through its 
underwriting process. The complaint is because it was never made clear that a 
recommendation could be rescinded and that it was subject to a full application and 
underwriting.
The most distressing thing is that TSB had comprehensive income about their capital, 
income, assets and liabilities months before the application was rejected. Even a cursory 
glance at this information by underwriters would have quickly identified the application as 
unsuitable. That would have avoided the ridiculous pantomime of having to answer 
banal and irrelevant questions via a 90-minute phonecall and the resultant delay of 
months before making a final decision.
What was the point of providing this financial information in April 2019 when it wasnt 
until August 2019 that they were told the application had been declined?
The investigator has failed to address the regulatory failures of TSB in dealing with the 
application.
Mr M is aware there is no guarantee with investments, and during Covid his investments 
fell in value by over 30%, but have since recovered.
He is better placed to determine what are best interests in relation to the mortgage than 
a TSB underwriter.
The investigator has concentrated more on TSBs rights to refuse to lend rather than the 
main issue Mr M is concerned about - the manner in which the case was assessed and 
the unnecessary and protracted process to which he and Mrs M were subjected.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, so 
although Ive noted what Mr M has said about what he perceives to be regulatory breaches 
by TSB, this isnt something that falls within my remit. 
I note Mr M is not challenging the right of TSB to decline the application. Rather, he is 
unhappy about the length of time taken to tell Mr and Mrs M that their term extension had 
been declined, and about having to deal with this over the telephone. 
Mr and Mrs M say they sent in their information to TSB in April 2019, and so their argument 
is that they could, and should, have been told then that their request for a term extension 
would be declined at that point. However, In a final response letter dated 7 August 2019, 
TSB explained that it hadnt received any correspondence from Mr and Mrs M sent in April 
2019 and that Mr and Mrs M had been made aware of this in May 2019.
It wasnt until 30 July 2019 that TSB received Mr and Mrs Ms information, and at that point 
proceeded with the application. This was conducted by telephone. Mr M thinks there should 
have been a face-to-face interview. However, the way TSB chooses to run its business, with 
a centralised mortgage department, is a matter for its own commercial judgement. I dont 
have any power to tell TSB to offer customers face-to-face interviews if this is not part of its 
business model.
I have looked at the mortgage illustration issued by TSB after Mr M had a conversation with 
the mortgage adviser on 20 August 2019. This states explicitly on the first page that the 
document doesnt constitute an obligation for TSB to grant a loan. It is simply an illustration 
of the product that might be available. The supplementary information on the illustration says 
that until a full application has been made, the availability of mortgage products could 
change.
Its unfortunate that the adviser didnt explain to Mr and Mrs M that hed overridden a decline 
on the Decision in Principle that TSBs system had generated and that the application would 
have to be referred to underwriters. However, Im not persuaded, given that Mr M is a retired 
financial adviser, that he wasnt aware that mortgage applications are subject to 
underwriting. TSB paid compensation of £25 for the oversight in not clarifying its process, 
which I think is fair in all the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M have accepted that TSB was entitled to decline their application. But for the 
sake of completeness, I have considered whether TSB acted fairly in turning down the 
request for a term extension. Having done so, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to decline the 
request. Mr M was already retired, and the requested term would extend beyond Mrs Ms 
retirement age. Based on earned income, the application didnt fit lending criteria. Other 
sources of income were deemed high risk. In addition, Mr and Mrs M had sufficient assets to 
repay the outstanding mortgage balance, but didnt want to do so. In all the circumstances, 
Im satisfied TSB acted fairly in declining the term extension.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman