DRN-3644399
The complaint
Ms P complains about access to accounts she held with Metro Bank Plc during the COVID-
19 pandemic and the general service she received.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms P and Metro and has taken place 
over an extended period of time. In the interest of conciseness - and because our 
investigator has already communicated the background to this complaint to both parties, in 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Ms P felt that she wasnt properly supported by Metro whist trying to access her accounts 
and account information during the COVID-19 pandemic - particularly around the time two of 
her fixed term accounts were reaching maturity. Ms P didnt have online banking set up and 
chose not to go into branch due to concerns about the risks associated with the pandemic.
Ms P complained to Metro. They partially upheld her complaint, awarding her £50 
compensation as they felt the service theyd delivered couldve been better. Ms P remained 
unhappy and referred her complaint to our Service. At this point Metro increased their 
compensation award to £150. The investigator felt this was fair and didnt recommend that 
Metro needed to do anything further. Ms P didnt agree and her complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. 
A substantial amount of evidence has been provided by both parties in this complaint. It 
wouldnt be reasonable that Id comment or make a finding on every piece of evidence or 
argument raised  thats not the nature of our Service, as an independent, informal and 
alternative dispute resolution Service. 
However, I want to reassure both parties involved here that Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. I make this point as I note 
Ms P has provided particularly detailed responses to our investigator. 
At the heart of this complaint is Ms Ps argument around access to her money being 
restricted due to her not having internet banking and preferring not to visit branch due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Shes also unhappy with various communication issues from Metro - 
such as being given inaccurate information and not being contacted when shed been told 
she would be and not being sent information she requested. I empathise with Ms P for her 
concerns around the pandemic given her age and health vulnerabilities.
In their final response letter, Metro accepted theyd fallen short in the service theyd given 
Ms P. This acceptance means my decision will largely centre on whether Metro have gone 
far enough to recognise the impact of their service on Ms P.
Its important to state - for context, that at the time these events Ms P is complaining about 
occurred, it was a few months into the pandemic. All customers and businesses were rapidly 
adjusting to the fast changing environment that COVID-19 created with its impact on the 
world. Metros policies will have been continually adapted and updated at that time. But as 
our investigator has said - theyve evolved as time has passed to offer more assistance to 
customers who dont have online banking as Metro better understands the challenges the 
pandemic created for those customers.
Metro accept that their adviser gave Ms P wrong information when not advising her that a 
fixed-rate cash ISA could only be opened in store and then didnt call Ms P back when the 
call ended early. Its understandable Ms P was anxious about having to visit branch given 
what shed told us about her general concerns about the pandemic at that time. However, 
Metro are entitled to take necessary security precautions and have their own processes in 
place to protect their customers deposits - and thats not something our Service can 
interfere with. Im satisfied that when Metro became aware of their error they notified Ms P. 
Ive listened to a substantial amount of phone conversations between Ms P and Metro. I 
accept that the calls may not have gone as smoothly as either party wanted. But I dont find 
sufficient persuasive evidence that the service provided on the phone was poor to the extent 
that the compensation already offered by Metro needs to be increased. 
There were other occasions where Metro have let Ms P down and will have caused 
disappointment. For example, Ive noted call backs didnt happen on 19 or 21 August 2020. 
There were occasions where it could reasonably be interpreted that Ms P was unhappy and 
wanted to raise a complaint - but this was missed by Metro.  Again, there were some delays 
in things happening too, but Im pleased that Ms P was ultimately able to access her money 
and Im not persuaded that shes lost out financially here to the extent that she should be 
compensated further by Metro. 
I havent found supporting evidence to agree that Metro staff dismissed or mocked Ms Ps 
concerns about the pandemic. It could equally be interpreted that they were trying to 
reassure her and Ive also kept in mind that all financial businesses  such as Metro, had 
implemented COVID-19 safety measures such as staff wearing masks in branches and 
limiting numbers of customers in branch at any one time to allow customers to visit branches 
knowing that the pandemic was being taken seriously and appropriate safety precautions 
implemented .
Ms P has requested specific statements and certificates for tax purposes from Metro. Our 
investigator made a clear request to Metro on 29 July 2022 for the information Ms P asked 
for  quoting specifically Ms Ps request to us. If Ms P hasnt received this information or she 
feels its incomplete - she should speak directly to Metro to obtain the information she needs. 
There are other elements to Ms Ps complaint that are solely about Metros internal 
processes and not something our Service can interfere with. For example, her request to 
have a pre-paid envelope sent out to her or for a free phone number to be made available. I 
dont make any award for the costs Ms P says she incurred contacting Metro. Whether Ms P 
had a pay as you go phone, contract phone or landline, that was her own choice and the 
costs will vary depending on which she called from. I dont make any additional award for the costs Ms P says she incurred contacting Metro. 
Metro have already accepted that they didnt call Ms P back when they should have and I 
know this will have meant extra costs for Ms P having to call them back. But Ive weighed 
this up against the £150 theyve already offered Ms P. Whether Ms P had a pay as you go 
phone, contract phone or landline, thats her own choice and the costs will vary depending 
on which she called from.
Similarly, Ms P has chosen (as is her right to do so) to not have internet access at home and 
was reluctant to visit branch - so she was limited at that time to dealing with Metro by phone. 
There will be costs associated with whatever method Ms P chose to use Metros services. 
For example, a branch visit might incur public transport costs or car fuel costs or time spent 
walking on foot and using the internet will generally mean broadband is needed - which has 
a cost.
Ive noted that at the beginning of Ms Ps complaint referral to our Service she commented 
(generally) on some concerns she had about staff working from home and data protection 
issues. No evidence has been provided that Ms P has been the victim of a data protection 
breach by Metro - but any such concerns would be best raised with The Information 
Commissioners Office (The ICO). 
The reason I make this point is Metro had a responsibility during the pandemic to protect 
their customers and their staff - by trying to operate their key business services with staff 
working from home as well as having some staff in branch. Ms P chose not to go into branch 
because of health concerns and Metro chose to allow some staff to solely work from home 
for similar reasons (following government guidance). The pandemic was an unprecedented 
event in our lifetime and of course Metros service offering to Ms P was far from perfect and 
quite clearly fell below what could be reasonably expected at times. But all things 
considered, Im satisfied that a total of £150 compensation is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate - relative to the impact of Metros actions on Ms P. 
Finally, Ms P has said that some of her complaints were ignored by Metro. My decision 
concerns those issues referred to our Service which covers a wide breadth of issues and 
addressed by the final response letter dated 28 August 2020, Should Ms P feel there are 
issues that have been missed by Metro, shed need to speak to them about starting a new 
complaint.
My decision brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to informally resolve this 
dispute between Ms P and Metro. Metro should now make arrangements to pay Ms P the 
additional £100 they offered when the complaint was referred to our Service - if they havent 
already done so.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman