DRN-4423093
The complaint
Mr A complains that Prodigy Finance LTD trading as Prodigy Finance irresponsibly gave him 
a fixed sum loan agreement. 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Prodigy Finance. The 
purpose of the loan was to pay for the tuition fees for his masters degree. The amount 
borrowed was $45,000 USD. There was an administration fee added for taking out the loan 
of $2,250 USD. The interest rate was a variable interest rate which was linked to a 
benchmark rate used to determine commercial interest rates. The loan was to be repaid in 
120 instalments, starting in February 2023, which was six months after when Mr As course 
ended. 
Mr A made a number of complaints to Prodigy Finance. One was made prior to entering into 
this loan, which in summary, was that Mr A was unhappy that a previous application hed 
made for funding was declined by Prodigy Finance. He said its decision to not lend to him 
would result in him being unable to pay his tuition fees for the course he had already started.
Following this complaint, Mr A was directed to make a new application by Prodigy Finance 
as it had explained to him why his previous application had been unsuccessful. In summary, 
it said this was because Mr A had indicated the course he was on was fully remote  
something Prodigy Finance didnt support funding for  and that Mr A hadnt adequately 
evidenced his ability to financially support himself through his studies. 
Mr A submitted a new application stating that his course was not fully remote and he 
provided evidence of savings that he held. Prodigy Finance accepted that new application. It 
paid the funds to his college. 
Mr A then made two further complaints. The first was that he was unhappy about the 
administration fee being added to the loan and that interest began to accrue straight away. 
He said these were not made clear to him and wanted the fee removed and interest to be 
frozen. Prodigy Finance said both had been set out clearly in the credit agreement he signed 
and didnt uphold his complaint. 
The second complaint Mr A made was that he didnt think Prodigy Finance had acted fairly in 
accepting his loan application. He said the evidence hed provided of his savings were 
stocks and shares account holdings. He said Prodigy Finances own criteria states these 
arent acceptable as proof of savings and therefore the loan should be terminated. He said 
that hed later fallen victim to a scam and lost all of these funds. He said he had also failed to 
find employment following his graduation and could not afford to pay the loan. He said 
Prodigy Finance had made no attempts to assist him with his financial difficulty. 
Prodigy Finance didnt uphold this complaint either. It said that it had completed appropriate 
checks which showed that the lending was affordable and appropriate. It said that it had 
provided Mr A with its forbearance process but as Mr A continued to dispute the validity of 
the loan it wasnt practical to put in place any arrangement until those issues were resolved. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He considered that 
Prodigy Finance had completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
approving the loan. He was satisfied that Mr As stocks and shares had not been a factor in 
that decision. Lastly, he didnt think Prodigy Finance had acted unfairly towards Mr A. 
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr A feels very strongly about the way Prodigy Finance has treated him. I want to 
assure him Ive carefully considered everything hes said and provided. However, I havent 
necessarily commented on each and every point he has made, Ive only focussed on what 
I consider to be the key issues of the complaint. This isnt meant to be discourteous. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr A feels that the loan should not have been granted. He 
says information he provided about his stocks and shares influenced Prodigy Finances 
lending decision and this went against its own lending policy and procedures. He says 
Prodigy Finance had previously dismissed that same evidence in his previous application for 
finance. Prodigy Finance says it didnt take that information into account in its lending 
decision. Having reviewed the available information and evidence, Im satisfied that it played 
no material part in the lending decision. But, even if it had, I dont think that would make any 
difference to the overall outcome Ive reached. Ill explain why. 
The purpose of the loan was to fund Mr As masters degree, which he had already started 
and would be required to pay for whether or not Prodigy Finance agreed to lend to him. Ive 
seen that as part of the application for the loan, Prodigy Finance required Mr A to 
demonstrate that he would be able to financially support himself whilst studying. The loan 
was intended to cover the majority of the tuition costs of the course, so Prodigy Finance says 
its calculations considered whether Mr A had the means to pay the remaining course fees 
and had enough left over to live on. 
Prodigy Finance says that the college Mr A was studying at provided it with estimated figures 
for living costs. It says these figures were used to work out whether Mr A had enough 
income or savings to support himself for the duration of the study period. It then asked Mr A 
for proof of his financial circumstances. Mr A provided a bank statement for a savings 
account and proof of his investments in a stocks and shares account as well as evidence 
that he had already paid the college a deposit of £3,750. 
Mr A doesnt understand what was different about the new application and the previous one 
and why Prodigy Finance came to two different lending decisions when the evidence 
supplied was the same. There appears to be two key factors. The first is that for the first 
application Mr A appears to have suggested the course operated in a way that 
Prodigy Finance didnt support funding for, and this was amended for the second application.
The second, and arguably most important, was timing of the applications. I dont doubt that 
Mr A provided the same financial evidence for both loans. However, by the time the second 
loan application was approved, Mr A only had around 3 months left before his course 
finished. 
When Prodigy Finance was assessing Mr As ability to financially support himself while 
studying, the amount of money he needed to evidence having access to would always be less the closer he was to the end of the course. By the time the second application was 
accepted, Prodigy Finance was satisfied that the money in Mr As savings account 
(excluding all of the funds in his stocks and shares) would be sufficient to support his living 
costs for the final three months of his studies. For Mr A to have been accepted earlier, he 
would have needed to demonstrate access to substantially more savings as the time left on 
the course would have been greater and therefore required greater living costs.
Ive seen that Prodigy Finance also completed a credit check on Mr A which showed he held 
a current account, a telecommunications account and a credit card with a relatively modest 
credit limit of £500 (the balance of which was £25 at that time). All accounts were showing 
as up to date, with no signs of financial difficulty. While Mr As stocks and shares werent a 
consideration in the lending decision, the fact it showed Mr A held a value in excess of 
$67,000 USD in that account and that around 30% of that was held in cash would have also 
given Prodigy Finance some comfort that Mr A was not in financial difficulty. 
Even if Im wrong and Prodigy Finance did use Mr As stocks and shares account as part of 
its affordability assessment, I dont think this makes any difference. This is because he held 
a large amount of cash in that account, and Mr A provided evidence from the account 
provider that there was no restriction on Mr As ability to withdraw those funds. I dont think it 
would have been unreasonable for Prodigy Finance to have relied on the cash holdings in 
that account in its affordability assessment as it was effectively the same as if he held them 
in any other type of savings account. 
As repayment of this loan wasnt expected until six months after Mr As course finished and 
that it didnt appear Mr A was currently employed, Prodigy Finance needed to take adequate 
steps to ensure the loan was likely to be affordable to Mr A when payments began to fall 
due. The lending rules set out by the regulator allow in circumstances such as this for 
Prodigy Finance to take into account Mr As expected future income. 
Prodigy Finance says it used statistical data provided by Mr As college (which appears to be 
a well-established, highly-regarded and prominent University) about employment rates and 
average salaries for graduates, as well as its own data about past students repayment ability 
and salaries and other third party data relating to graduate employment and salaries in a 
similar field. It said that the figure this dataset arrived at was further reduced by around a 
third to ensure it was reasonably conservative. Based on these figures it said that Mr A 
would likely be earning enough to be able to afford the loan repayments without difficulty. 
Ive seen no reason in the specific circumstances of this complaint to be concerned about 
the figures Prodigy Finance used in those calculations. 
This is particularly so because Mr A has made no argument or provided evidence to suggest 
that employment for graduates in his chosen field would yield an insufficient income to repay 
the loan. Instead, hes argued that his loss of funds to a scam and his inability to get 
employment are the reasons for his affordability concerns.  
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Prodigy Finance completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before lending to Mr A. Further, Im satisfied there wasnt 
anything within those checks that ought to have led it to be concerned about the affordability 
of the loan.
Ive also considered whether Prodigy Finance did enough to review Mr As financial 
circumstances before the repayments were due to begin. This is because it had based its 
affordability calculations on income projections, so it needed to take steps to review Mr As 
circumstances when payments began. Having done so, Im satisfied that it has. 
I say this because Ive seen that Prodigy Finance got in touch with Mr A in August 2022, six months before payments were due start, to tell him what was happening and why. Mr A 
wanted the payments to start later because he said that he still had an exam left to 
complete. Prodigy Finance told him the payment date couldnt be changed but to get in 
touch with them in February 2023, a few weeks before the first payment, if at that time he 
was in difficulty or had insufficient funds. It explained the forbearance process it had in place 
if it was required which included offering payment breaks. It said that Mr A would need to 
provide proof of his financial circumstances at that time if he was unable to meet the loan 
repayments. 
It seems that Mr A didnt ask Prodigy Finance for assistance with any financial difficulties 
until he raised his latest complaint. In that complaint Mr A notified Prodigy Finance that he 
had been the victim of a scam and that he lost all of the money in his investment account 
and that he hadnt been able to find employment. He said for these reasons he couldnt 
afford to pay the loan. However, he also set out that he believed the loan should be treated 
as fraudulent because he said Prodigy Finance didnt follow its correct lending process. 
Prodigy Finance said it would be inappropriate to discuss a repayment plan with Mr A while 
he was disputing the validity of the loan itself. I dont agree that was necessarily the most 
helpful response. I think it could still have discussed a possible payment arrangement, 
particularly as it had made its position clear to Mr A that it considered the loan to be valid. 
However, I note that Mr A was also more focussed on trying to prove that Prodigy Finance 
had acted against its own processes rather than engaging in discussions of repayment. 
Prodigy Finance had previously explained to Mr A that in order to approve any payment 
break or other forbearance measures they would require evidence from him, in the form of 
bank statements, to demonstrate his inability to repay the loan. I cant see that Mr A has 
made any attempt to do this. While I think Prodigy Finance could have reminded Mr A of 
what he needed to do, I dont think that would have made any overall difference to Mr As 
financial position. 
I say this because Mr A has made no payments towards the loan while his complaints have 
been ongoing. This would have been the most likely result of any forbearance measures 
Prodigy Finance may have put in place if Mr A provided sufficient evidence of his inability to 
repay. Interest would likely have continued to be charged and I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Prodigy Finance to have frozen that just because Mr A was currently unemployed. 
Therefore, while I think Prodigy Finance could have done a little more to discuss a 
repayment arrangement earlier, Im not persuaded Mr A has suffered any material loss as a 
result of that. I therefore dont think it has acted unfairly towards Mr A. I remind Prodigy 
Finance of its ongoing obligation to treat Mr A fairly if his financial difficulties continue.
Lastly, Mr A was also unhappy about the administration fee added to the loan and the fact 
that interest began to accrue as soon as the loan proceeds were paid to the college. He says 
this wasnt explained to him. Ive seen that all of this information was set out in the credit 
agreement that Mr A received and signed. The administration fee was prominently displayed 
on the first page of the credit agreement alongside the total charges for taking out the credit. 
The details of how interest would be calculated and charged was listed under a heading 
titled: Rate of Interest. How we calculate and apply interest. This explained that interest 
would accrue from the date payment was made to the college. I therefore think this 
information was made available to Mr A in a clear way prior to him entering into the 
agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman