DRN-2935543
The complaint
Mr G complains that Jacob Hopkins McKenzie Limited (JHML) mis-sold him an investment in 
a property scheme. 
What happened
Mr G met with an advisor of JHML in around July 2018. The advisor sold him £30,000 worth 
of shares in a property development scheme. Mr G understood his and other investors 
money would be used to purchase and develop a plot of land, with a view to it being sold on 
at a later date. As part of the sales process, Mr G signed a declaration which confirmed he 
was a self-certified sophisticated investor (SCSI).
In 2019, Mr G received a series of updates from JHML citing difficulties with the 
development. In 2020, he was told the investment had failed, and that he stood to lose 
everything he invested. Mr G complained to JHML that it should return his money. 
In its response, JHML blamed unforeseen circumstances for the investments demise. It 
suggested itd only introduced and sold the investment to Mr G as hed claimed to be an 
SCSI. As part of Mr Gs complaint was that he wouldnt have qualified as an SCSI, it 
accused him of acting dishonestly during the application process. Mr G was unhappy with 
JHMLs response, he referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. They were persuaded Mr G was unlikely to have 
been an SCSI, and JHML had failed to evidence the necessary due diligence to confirm 
otherwise. They concluded the investment shouldnt have been promoted to Mr G, and 
recommended JHML should return his money. JHML disagreed with our investigators 
findings, so the matter was referred to me.
I made a provisional decision on this complaint. This is what I said: 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principle 6 (Customers interests), is particularly relevant here. And this 
overlaps with the rule in COBS 2.1.1R which requires that A firm must act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. Ive kept this in mind 
when considering Mr Gs complaint.
Having studied the sales paperwork, Im satisfied the investment JHML sold Mr G would 
meet the definition of a non-mainstream pooled investment (NMPI). Ive seen evidence that 
his £30,000, along with money from other investors, was used to purchase securities issued 
by the special purpose vehicle JHML established when arranging this scheme. Its not in 
dispute that JHML introduced, promoted, and made the arrangements through which Mr G 
became invested in the NMPI.
In my view, the investments status as an NMPI is significant in this case. According to the 
rules which applied at the time, COBS 4.12.3R says that:
A firm must not communicate or approve an invitation or inducement to participate 
in, acquire, or underwrite a non-mainstream pooled investment where that invitation 
or inducement is addressed to or disseminated in such a way that it is likely to be 
received by a retail client
So when applied to the circumstances of this complaint, JHML wouldnt have been allowed 
to promote this NMPI to Mr G if it considered him to be a retail client. It could only have done 
so if Mr G met the criteria of one of the exemptions to the rule Ive quoted above. The 
exemptions to this rule are listed out in COBS 4.12.4R.
From the evidence in this case, I can see JHML regarded Mr G as being someone who did 
meet the criteria of one of these exemptions. Its treated him as an SCSI. COBS 4.12.8R 
says that an SCSI is, amongst other things, an individual whos signed a specifically worded 
statement, confirming themselves as such, within 12 months of them receiving the promotion 
in question.
Mr G has signed a statement confirming hes an SCSI. I understand that the circumstances 
surrounding the signing of this document are contested by both parties. But I wont explore 
this in my decision, because it does not affect the outcome Im reaching. The facts are that 
this document was signed, and JHML has suggested it only sold Mr G the investment 
because it understood he was an SCSI.
SCSIs are exempted from the prohibition on promoting NMPIs in COBS 4.12.3R. But there 
are still restrictions on what types of NMPIs may be promoted to them. When outlining the 
criteria of an SCSI, COBS 4.12.4R (5) makes it clear that firms may use this exemption to 
promote:
Any non-mainstream pooled investment the firm considers is likely to be suitable for
that client, based on a preliminary assessment of the client's profile and objectives.
The regulator provides guidance on what form this due diligence should take in COBS 
4.12.5G. It says:
The requirement for a preliminary assessment of suitability does not extend to a full 
suitability assessment, unless advice is being offered in relation to the non-
mainstream pooled investment being promoted, in which case the requirements in 
COBS 9 or 9A apply (as applicable). However, it requires that the firm takes 
reasonable steps to acquaint itself with the client's profile and objectives in order to 
ascertain whether the non-mainstream pooled investment under contemplation is 
likely to be suitable for that client. The firm should not promote the non-mainstream 
pooled investment to the client if it does not consider it likely to be suitable for that 
client following such preliminary assessment
In this case, the evidence doesnt persuade me that JHML was giving advice to Mr G. But 
the rule and guidance Ive outlined above make it clear that it couldnt have promoted its 
investment to Mr G without first carrying out a preliminary assessment of whether the 
investment was likely to be suitable for him.
I have been presented with no evidence of JHML undertaking any such assessment. And 
JHML hasnt ever mentioned conducting one. So on the facts available to me, I think its 
likely this assessment did not take place as it should have.
By itself, this is a significant failing on JHMLs part. But it would only be fair and reasonable 
of me to conclude Mr Gs complaint should succeed, if the evidence persuaded me he wouldnt have ended up investing had the preliminary assessment of suitability taken place. 
Ive therefore considered what JHML ought reasonably to have concluded, had it carried out
a preliminary assessment of suitability.
As above, a preliminary assessment of suitability would require JHML to take reasonable 
steps to acquaint itself with the client's profile and objectives, and weigh this against what it 
knew about the NMPI it was offering, to decide whether the investment was likely to be 
suitable. From the evidence gathered in this case I understand that at the time:
Mr Gs annual salary was around £24,000.
Hed obtained the money by releasing equity from a property he owned.
The money he invested represented a significant portion of his savings.
Mr G was looking to grow his deposit by investing, to start a buy to let business
Where the NMPI is concerned, I understand that:
The investment held a significant concentration risk, in that its success relied on the 
performance of a specific property development.
There was a likelihood that, in the event the investment should fail, all of the money 
invested could be lost.
On these basic facts, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that the NMPI 
was likely to be unsuitable for Mr G. The amount he was seeking to invest represented a 
significant amount of his savings. And his salary wasnt such that he could easily replenish 
any losses he sustained when investing. This investment came with the prospect of all of his 
money being lost, which had the potential to cause real harm to his future plans, mindful of 
what his objective was. Therefore I cannot see how, treating Mr G fairly and considering his 
best interests as it wouldve been required to, JHML couldve reasonably concluded its NMPI 
was likely to be suitable for Mr G based on a preliminary assessment of his profile and 
objectives.
Im persuaded that had it carried out this assessment, mindful of the guidance in COBS 
4.12.5G, JHML ought reasonably to have decided not to promote this investment to Mr G. 
This would mean that he would not have invested, and would not have suffered the loss its 
clear has distressed him.
JHML has suggested in its submissions that it only promoted this investment to him because 
he dishonestly identified himself as an SCSI. Its also argued that Mr G never told it how 
much of his savings he was investing, and that had he done so, it wouldnt have accepted 
his deposit. But leaving aside the arguments around what was and was not said when the  
CSI declaration was signed, JHMLs argument overlooks its obligations to acquaint itself 
with the client's profile and objectives and conduct a preliminary assessment of the 
investments suitability for Mr G under COBS 4.12.4R (5). And as Ive found that discussions 
JHML ought to have had with Mr G, ought reasonably to have ended in him not investing, I 
think its fair and reasonable that I should direct JHML to compensate him.
Putting things right 
Our investigator recommended JHML should refund the £30,000 Mr G invested, and pay him 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused. But Im not satisfied this goes far 
enough at addressing Mr Gs losses. Ill explain why.
As I understand it, at the time of the sale, Mr G was keen to invest. Ive concluded above 
that JHML ought to have realised that it couldnt fairly or reasonably have sold him the NMPI. Instead, mindful of its obligation to consider Mr Gs best interests, Im persuaded it wouldve 
been fair for JHML to direct him to obtain advice on investing in a way that was more 
suitable for his needs. And because it didnt do so, Mr Gs missed out on the opportunity to
benefit from more suitable advice.
Where I identify a firms made a mistake and its customers worse off as a result, my broad 
aim when redressing complaints is to ensure that customer is returned to the position they 
wouldve been in, had the firms mistake not occurred. Thats what I intend to direct JHML to
do in Mr Gs case.
To begin with, JHML should fully refund any fees it charged separately from Mr Gs £30,000 
deposit, associated with the arrangement of the NMPI. This would include but isnt 
necessarily limited to advice fees, administrative fees, and legal fees. My intention here is 
that it should be as if Mr G never paid for any services connected with the NMPI.
If Mr G paid any fees as described above, NMPI should calculate and pay 8% simple interest 
on any amount refunded. This interest should be calculated from the date Mr G first paid the 
fees, up until the date JHML settles the complaint by making payment to Mr G. If JHML 
decides that tax is payable on this interest, it should send a tax deduction certificate to Mr G.
He may then reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Next, Ive considered that Mr Gs unfairly experienced distress as a result of JHMLs failures. 
Hes been sold an investment which should not have been promoted to him. And in the 
years that followed, hes learnt his entire £30,000 had been swallowed up by the failure of 
the NMPI. His submissions persuade me this has had a big impact on him personally, 
particularly because he had plans for the money. So Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances to require JHML to pay him £350 in recognition of this.
Finally, I must address the way Mr Gs money was invested. And how his circumstances
would now be different if JHML had directed him to obtain suitable advice, as Ive concluded
it should have. Ive set out my thoughts on this below.
Fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr G 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if hed invested elsewhere. 
I think Mr G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should JHML do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, JHML must:
As above, refund any charges Mr G paid as a consequence of investing in the NMPI. 
Calculate simple interest at 8%, from the date charges were paid, until the date of 
settlement, on any amount due back to Mr G with respect to this direction.
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
JHML should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.Pay Mr G £350 the sum of £350 for the distress he suffered when the investment 
collapsed.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio Name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
NMPI Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per
year from final
decision to
settlement (if
not settled
within 28 days
of the 
business
receiving the
complainant's
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr G agrees to JHML taking 
ownership of the portfolio, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for JHML to take ownership, then 
it may request an undertaking from Mr G that he repays to JHML any amount he may 
receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, JHML should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
The NMPI only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the NMPI to be closed and 
further wrapper fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by JHML taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr G can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If JHML is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr G an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the NMPI to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted to achieve a reasonable return without taking a significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr G's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr G would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
JHML did not respond to my decision. 
Mr G appeared to accept my decision but had comments and questions around the redress 
Id proposed. Specifically, he said: 
He didnt recall paying any administrative or advisor fees separately from the money 
he deposited, and he wasnt certain what Id proposed would address this. 
Whilst he appreciated my consideration for the distress hed suffered, he questioned whether 
£350 fully addressed the impact these events had on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied JHML failed to treat Mr G fairly and 
consider his best interests when it omitted to carry out a preliminary assessment of the 
suitability of its NMPI. Had it done so, it ought reasonably to have concluded this investment 
was likely to be unsuitable for Mr G, because of his profile and objectives. Knowing this, and 
being mindful of its obligations, it shouldnt have sold the investment to Mr G, which wouldve 
spared him a considerable loss, and the associated distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered as a result. 
Because of this, Im satisfied it is both fair and reasonable of me to direct JHML to pay Mr G 
the settlement Ive outlined above, which addresses both his financial loss, and the impact 
these events have had on him personally. 
Mr G has questioned if, mindful that he doesnt recall paying any advisor fees separately, the 
redress Ive proposed fully takes account of the circumstances of his case. But Im satisfied 
this would be considered in the methodology Ive proposed. For further clarity however, for 
the purposes of calculating and paying the comparative redress I outlined in my provisional 
decision, JHML cannot make any deductions for its own fees. As I said, Mr G should be 
returned to the position he wouldve been in had he never invested, and this would mean 
hed never have paid JHML fees of any kind for its services to him. 
Mr G has also questioned my decision to award him the sum of £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. But Im satisfied this amount feels fair in the 
circumstances, mindful that the methodology Ive outlined above will, once calculated, 
require JHML to return his entire £30,000 plus interest.   
All that remains is for me to make my decision final, which I shall now do. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Jacob Hopkins McKenzie Limited must pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Jacob Hopkins McKenzie Limited must provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman