DRN-1599963
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) was wrong 
to decline a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 1974 (section 75) in 
respect of a vehicle purchase.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by a third party. However for ease I will refer to any 
submissions made by Mrs Hs representative as if they had been made by Mrs H.
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs H paid, using her Barclays credit card, £2,250 and £500 to a dealership 
(that I will call A) for a second hand vehicle (vehicle).
Shortly after paying £2,750 for the vehicle Mrs H says it was deemed, by one or more third 
parties, as being of unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs H says that after A refused to give her money back she complained to Barclays.
In June 2019 Barclays issued Mrs H with a final response letter (FRL). In this FRL Barclays 
said that its attempt at a chargeback against the merchant (A) had been unsuccessful and it 
wasnt liable to Mrs H under section 75 because of the lack of a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
(d-c-s) relationship.
Mrs H wasnt happy with Barclays FRL so referred a complaint to our service.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Barclays had 
done nothing wrong.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators conclusion so her complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs H but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Its not for me to decide the outcome of a section 75 claim. Instead, I need to decide if I think 
Barclays treated Mrs H fairly and reasonably, taking into account its obligations under the 
relevant law, which includes section 75.
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mrs H has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against a supplier of goods or services she can also bring that claim against 
Barclays  provided certain conditions are met. One of those conditions is that there must be 
a valid d-c-s relationship.
In this case, Mrs H is the debtor because shes used credit provided by Barclays to buy a 
vehicle, the creditor is Barclays because its provided credit to Mrs H and the supplier is A. 
But although its clear that Mrs H paid £2,750 (to A) for the vehicle, other evidence shows 
the contracting party and the sole contracting party (with A) for the vehicle wasnt Mrs H, but 
her son.
Ive come to this conclusion having had regard, when taken together rather than on their 
own, the following:
Although I accept what Mrs H says on this point, the vehicle sales invoice that has 
been provided is in the name of Mrs Hs son with a different address to that of Mrs H.
Section 10 of the V5 has Mrs Hs son recorded as the new keeper and at a different 
address to that of Mrs H.
In her cardholder dispute form (dated 21 February 2019) Mrs H said The purchase 
was made by me on behalf of my son
In response to a letter from Barclays dated 26 February 2019, Mrs H said I 
purchased this car for my son
Mrs Hs son appears to have corresponded with A (in writing and by email), made a 
number of visits to A, made (or attempted to make) a number of phone calls and sent 
(or attempted to send) a number of texts about this matter, not Mrs H.
Mrs H has confirmed that she has access to another vehicle and the vehicle subject 
to this complaint was insured in the name of her son only.
Although I accept what Mrs H says on this point Mr Hs son has annotated a letter 
from A to say that he was not accompanied by anyone when he went to A to view 
the vehicle subject to this complaint.
 
Because Ive concluded that Mrs H wasnt the contracting party (with A) here Im satisfied 
that there is no valid d-c-s relationship and that Barclays treated Mrs H fairly and reasonably 
in declining her claim under section 75.
I appreciate this is a technical area of the law, and that Mrs H is likely to be frustrated by this 
outcome. However Mrs H doesnt have to accept this decision and may pursue this matter 
by alternative means should she wish to do so, including in court. I also think its worth 
pointing out that because I dont think the requirements are in place for a valid section 75 
claim against Barclays, Ive not assessed the quality of the vehicle and Ive certainly made 
no finding on whether the vehicle was, or wasnt, of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that based on what both parties have 
said and submitted Im satisfied that Barclays took its chargeback as far as it reasonably 
could in all the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman