DRN-3970674
The complaint
Ms I complains about her second charge mortgage (secured loan) with Elderbridge Limited. 
What happened
Ms I took out a secured loan with a company Ill call F in 2006 over a term of 7 years, ending 
in 2013.
Unfortunately Ms I lost her job and fell into financial difficulties. She was unable to keep up 
with her payments. Ms I wasnt making payments for a long time and in 2008 F went to court 
and obtained a suspended possession order. However, Ms I made no further payments after 
the end of 2008. 
Around this time, F removed interest from the main balance. It continued to charge interest, 
but rather than adding it to the loan balance, it put the monthly interest in a separate 
account. This meant that if Ms I did make any payments, they would reduce the capital 
balance first  reducing future interest. And it meant that from then on Ms I was charged 
simple interest rather than compound interest. So this made the loan less expensive overall.
It seems F then took no further action until the loan was transferred to Elderbridge in 2016. 
Elderbridge noted that the term had ended in 2013 and no payments had been made for a 
long time. In 2017, it sent a field agent to the property. As Ms I still made no payments, 
Elderbridge instructed solicitors with a view to taking new repossession action. 
Following this, Ms I got in touch with Elderbridge and completed an income and expenditure 
form. She offered to pay £1,000 per month. Elderbridge accepted that offer and Ms I made 
the payments until November 2019.
In January 2019, Ms I asked Elderbridge to review the payment arrangement. She said she 
couldnt afford the payments herself and it was her daughter making them. Elderbridge 
asked Ms I to complete an updated income and expenditure assessment. Elderbridge 
agreed to accept £700 per month, but Ms I continued to pay £1,000 until November 2019. 
In September 2019, Ms I again asked Elderbridge to review the payments. She also asked it 
to consider stopping charging interest altogether. Elderbridge didnt agree  it said given the 
amount of the outstanding debt, and that it was already separating interest from the main 
balance, stopping charging interest altogether wouldnt make a significant difference to the 
overall time it would take Ms I to repay the loan. It said that even at £1,000 a month it would 
still take Ms I over four more years to repay the loan  despite the term having ended in 
2013. It said that if Ms I could no longer afford the payments, she should take independent 
advice or consider selling the property to repay the loan. It agreed to accept reduced 
payments of £500 for two months to give Ms I time to consider her options.
After that arrangement ended, Ms I continued to pay £500 rather than £1,000 per month. In 
May 2020, Elderbridge agreed a reduced payment arrangement of £300 per month to help 
Ms I through the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.
In July and August 2020, Elderbridge asked Ms I for bank statements and medical evidence 
so that it could consider what an affordable arrangement would be going forwards. Ms I 
didnt provide them, and in December 2020 and January 2021 Elderbridge again discussed 
what she could afford with Ms I.
At this point, Ms I was still paying £300 per month. Elderbridge decided that it would take 
legal action to repossess the property. A hearing was listed in May 2021, but Elderbridge 
asked for an adjournment to allow Ms I to seek advice. 
In 2022, Ms I offered to increase the monthly payments to £500 and then £715. Elderbridge 
refused this offer because it said this would mean it would take a long time for the loan to be 
repaid, and because there was no evidence that this amount was actually affordable for 
Ms I. 
A further court hearing was set for July 2022, but Elderbridge agreed to adjourn the 
possession proceedings so that Ms I could bring a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Ms I complains that Elderbridge hasnt treated her fairly. She thinks that it has wrongly 
calculated the loan balance, as she says she only borrowed £35,000 but Elderbridge says 
she borrowed more than that. She says shes tried to make repayments and offered what 
she could afford. She says shes repaid more than she borrowed, and there is only £5,000 
left  but Elderbridge says she also owes over £40,000 in interest. She doesnt think its fair 
that Elderbridge wont agree a payment arrangement and is threatening to repossess the 
property. She wants Elderbridge to agree a solution that will allow her to repay the loan over 
time in an affordable way.
Our investigator said that part of Ms Is complaint was brought out of time. Shed first 
complained to Elderbridge in 2021, and Elderbridge responded to her complaint on 29 June 
2021, giving her six months to complain to us if she wasnt happy. Ms I didnt do that, but 
instead complained to Elderbridge again, and Elderbridge issued further final responses on 
29 December 2021 and 11 May 2022. As Ms I first contacted us in June 2022, our 
investigator said that matters covered in the June 2021 response were out of time, and he 
would only consider the second and third complaint, from December 2021 and May 2022.
This meant that our investigator only looked at whether it was fair for Elderbridge to threaten 
repossession proceedings rather than agree a payment arrangement in 2022, and whether 
Elderbridge had acted appropriately or in a threatening manner, causing Ms I unnecessary 
stress. 
The investigator didnt think Elderbridge had acted unfairly. He noted that F and then 
Elderbridge had removed interest from the main loan balance to allow Ms I to repay the 
capital more quickly. But because shed not made any payments between 2008 and 2017, 
the loan balance had not reduced as it should have done and extra interest had been 
incurred. He noted that the term of the loan had ended in 2013. He didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Elderbridge to take action to recover the outstanding balance, especially as 
it wasnt affordable for Ms I to make payments to clear it within a reasonable time.
Ms I didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I agree with our investigator that we can only consider part of Ms Is complaint. The time 
limits which apply to the Financial Ombudsman Service say that a complaint must be made 
within six months of the date Elderbridge issued its final response. If a complaint is made 
outside the limit we cannot consider it  unless Elderbridge consents (which it hasnt), or 
unless there are exceptional circumstances which explain why the complaint couldnt have 
been made in time. In this case, Elderbridge replied to Ms Is first complaint on 29 June 
2021, but she didnt contact us until June 2022  so this complaint is out of time. Ive not 
seen anything that would amount to exceptional circumstances which explain why Ms I 
couldnt have complained sooner than she did. 
I can see from the loan agreement that Ms I borrowed £37,000  not £35,000  and that she 
also borrowed £7,374.10 to pay a payment protection insurance (PPI) premium. This made 
the total loan balance £44,374.10, with a monthly payment of £570.59. It seems from 
Elderbridges records that Ms I complained to F that the PPI had been mis-sold in 2014. I 
dont know the outcome of that complaint, or whether any redress was paid to Ms I direct. 
But none was added to the loan balance. Im therefore satisfied that Elderbridge has not 
mis-calculated the loan balance, or used an incorrect initial loan amount, in setting the 
amount its asked Ms I to repay. 
Ms I took this loan out in 2006, and it was due to be repaid in 2013. Unfortunately, Ms I fell 
into financial difficulties from an early stage, and a possession order was first obtained in 
2008.
Around the same time, F took the decision to suspend interest on the loan account. This 
doesnt mean it stopped charging interest altogether  rather, it means that it removed 
interest from the main loan balance and kept it in a separate sub-account. This had two 
effects. Firstly, it meant that from then on, any payments Ms I made would be used solely to 
reduce the capital  which meant that, if she made payments, her balance would reduce 
more quickly and shed be charged less interest overall. And secondly, it meant that from 
then on Ms I would only be charged simple not compound interest, again reducing the 
amount of interest shed have to pay overall.
This was therefore a form of forbearance designed to assist Ms I  by helping her get the 
loan back on track, and reducing the impact of the payments shed missed.
However, Ms I was still not able to keep up with the loan, and didnt make any payments at 
all between September 2008 and November 2017. Nor was she in contact with either F or 
Elderbridge, until Elderbridge re-established contact in late 2017. But by then the loan term 
had ended four years earlier.
In late 2017, Elderbridge agreed not to take possession action in return for Ms I agreeing to 
pay £1,000 per month  on the basis that if she kept paying that amount, the loan balance 
would be cleared in around six years.
Ms I continued to pay £1,000 a month for the next few years, but from early 2020 has not 
been able to pay that amount. Shes paid £500 and then £300 per month. 
Elderbridge wasnt happy with this, on the basis that it would take much longer to clear the 
loan balance. Even though it stopped charging interest at all in early 2021, it would take a 
further ten years for the loan to be repaid at £300 per month  meaning that it wouldnt be 
paid off until almost 20 years after the term ended.
In all the circumstances, I think Elderbridge has acted fairly in this case, and shown 
reasonable forbearance. Even though the loan term ended in 2013, and Ms I didnt make 
any payments at all for many years, it has tried to work with Ms I to help her find a way to repay. It agreed an arrangement which would allow the loan to be repaid within a reasonable 
time. When Ms I was no longer able to keep to that arrangement, it looked at her financial 
situation to see what she could afford to pay and whether an arrangement to repay could be 
reached. Following Fs decision to suppress interest in 2008, Elderbridge first maintained 
that arrangement, and then has stopped charging interest altogether since 2021. 
I do understand that Ms I is in a very difficult situation. Shes struggling to make payments 
she cant afford, and there is still a substantial balance outstanding. At the same time, 
however, Elderbridge is entitled to have the loan balance repaid within a reasonable time, 
and it has taken steps to assist Ms I to do so. I dont think it can reasonably be expected to 
wait for twenty years or more after the loan term ended for it to be repaid. 
While I dont doubt that this is very disappointing for Ms I, I think that if shes not able to 
repay the loan its reasonable for Elderbridge to be contemplating taking further action. 
However, Ms I may want to take independent debt advice to see whether there are any other 
options open to her, and if she is able to make proposals for repayment, I would expect 
Elderbridge to give them fair consideration  which may include giving Ms I reasonable time 
to raise the funds to repay through re-financing or sale of the property, if those options are 
open to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman