DRN-1975952
 
The complaint
Mr P, who is a sole trader, complains on behalf of his business (referred to as M) that 
Santander UK plc (Santander) incorrectly told him his business debit card could be 
cancelled because he hadnt used it for some time.  Mr P says it caused him worry and 
inconvenience having to contact Santander about this. 
M is the account holder. But where I refer to Mr P's comments and actions below, it should 
be read as being in respect of M.  
What happened
Mr P has a business account with Santander under the name of M.  He has a debit card and 
an operator card attached to the account. 
Santander wrote to Mr P in September 2019 about his debit card, quoting the last 4 digits of 
the card number. It said a review indicated the debit card hadnt been used for some time, 
so he should use it over the next few months to avoid it being cancelled. 
Mr P called Santander to discuss the letter. He gave the last four digits of his debit card 
number, which were different to those mentioned in Santanders letter. Mr P said he didnt 
want to use the card in the way Santander suggested because he was about to go away for 
a month and hed used it recently.  
The call hander couldnt resolve the issue and transferred Mr P to the business banking 
team. Mr P again explained the issue and during that call, it transpired the card number 
included in Santanders letter related to an operator card - not a debit card - as Mr P had 
been led to believe. 
Mr P says the business banking team couldnt really account for why hed received a letter 
about a debit card, so he then spoke to the complaints team. That team said thered been 
no error on Santanders part because its letter related to a card registered to the account. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the explanation the complaints team gave him, so he asked for a 
written response. Santander wrote to Mr P along similar lines and said he could contact our 
service if he wasnt happy with its response.
Mr P complained to us. He said he was worried when he received Santanders letter 
because he thought the business debit card might be cancelled unless he took action. And 
he says it took time and effort for him to clarify Santanders letter.  
During a later call from Mr P after hed made his complaint to us, Santander told him its letter 
referred to debit cards in a generic sense, as the letters werent tailored to the individual 
circumstances. The call handler said Mr Ps complaint was about the current operator card 
(not the previous one), and that an operator card was a different version of a debit card, but 
not what youd use a debit card for. Mr P said that wasnt right, as the letter he received was 
about a different operator card. Santander said it was satisfied there were no grounds on 
which to reopen the complaint and Mr P should await a response from this service.
Our investigator issued his assessment of Mr P's complaint. He found there was some 
confusion because Santander referred to a debit card rather than an operator card. 
But overall, the investigator felt any inconvenience caused would have been minimal. 
Mr Ps not happy with the investigators assessment, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
I sent Mr P and Santander my provisional findings on 19 June 2020. Ive included the 
relevant extract from my findings below.
Mr P says he was worried when he got Santanders letter because he was about to go away 
for a month, so he didnt want anything to happen to the debit card during that time. I think 
its unlikely anything would have happened while he was away as Santander said Mr P 
should use the card by January 2020 or risk it being cancelled. But I can still appreciate why 
Mr P contacted Santander straight away because despite what Santander said, Mr P had 
used the debit card recently. So, I can see why hed want to clear things up.
Mr P also thinks Santander has a responsibility to provide accurate information and to 
properly investigate when concerns are raised. I appreciate his point. So, Ive thought about 
Santanders handling of the matter both in terms of the accuracy of the letter and the steps it 
took to respond to the concerns Mr P raised on behalf of his business. And having done so, 
its likely Ill partly uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Its fairly typical for banks to carry out reviews and write to customers when cards havent 
been used for a while. I think thats reasonable, as it can help prevent fraud and gives 
customers added protection. But its also reasonable to expect letters to be clear enough for 
the customer to understand what theyre referring to. And if they cant, the bank 
should provide clear explanation if asked. 
Santander appears to have used debit card in a generic sense when it wrote to Mr P, when 
it was actually referring to an operator card. My understanding is that debit cards work 
differently to operator cards. Operator cards can only be used to deposit cash and cheques 
at cash machines and to check account balances and transactions. And Mr P seems to be 
aware of this, so I can appreciate why hed want Santander to make the distinction, 
particularly if there was a risk of the debit card - which has a wider range of functions - being 
cancelled. 
But I dont automatically think Santander was wrong to refer to debit card for the purposes 
of its review. I say that because I think it would be unusual for Santander to tailor each letter 
it sends to customers when carrying out a review like this. But that said, I dont think Mr P 
could have known from the letter he received that Santander was referring to an operator 
card. Apart from mentioning a debit card, it also quoted a different number that didnt match 
either of the cards Mr P had. And so, even if Mr P had noticed that the number didnt match, 
I dont think hed have been any less worried. I say that because I think hed have been just 
as keen to understand why Santander mentioned another debit card attached to his 
account that he wasnt aware of. So, I think he was always going to contact Santander for 
clarification. 
After confirming his account details using the right debit card number, the call handler 
transferred Mr P to the business banking team. And after he explained the problem again, 
the business banking team told Mr P the letter referred to an operator card and not a debit 
card, as he thought.Santander hasnt been able to send me the whole recording of the call with the business 
banking team. So, Ive thought about whats most likely to have happened based on the 
other evidence Ive seen and heard. I think its likely during the later part of the call that I 
havent heard, Santander told Mr P the letter was about a previous operator card and not the 
one he currently has. I say that because Ive heard Mr P talking about a card swallowed by 
a machine in 2016 during a later conversation with Santander, and it seems likely his earlier 
conversation with the business banking team reminded him what led to his card being 
replaced in 2016.  So, whilst Im satisfied Mr P had some explanation why hed received the 
letter, he still thought Santander was in a muddle by calling an operator card a debit card. 
And its clear he wanted to understand why that was. I also think it should have been a fairly 
straightforward explanation for Santander to help him understand what it meant. 
But the business banking team doesnt seem to have been able to give Mr P the assurances 
and explanations he was looking for. So, Mr P asked to be transferred to the complaints 
team - particularly as he felt Santander wasted his time and worried him unnecessarily. 
Mr P thought Santander was dismissive of his complaint and the time hed spent trying to get 
to the bottom of what happened. Ive listened to the call with the complaints team and I think 
Mr P has a point.
From what Ive heard, I dont think the complaints team demonstrated it was trying to 
understand and address Mr Ps concerns. I say that because it asked him how it could help 
him and he explained he was under a bit of stress as he was going away, so he wanted 
clarification about what had happened and an assurance that Ms account cards wouldnt be 
affected.  
But rather than try to give Mr P an explanation, particularly about why the term debit  card 
had been used, the complaints team simply repeated there hadnt been an error because the 
card was linked to the account. I dont think this response was helpful. I say that because 
although the previous operator card might still have been linked to the account as far as 
Santander was concerned - in that it hadnt yet expired - its systems should also have shown 
it had likely been replaced some years before. And a quick look at the system would 
probably have confirmed that. I think its unlikely Mr P would have asked to speak to the 
complaints team if hed been assured by the previous responses hed been given. So, I think 
the complaints team should have tried to address Mr Ps issues- irrespective of any previous 
responses it thought hed been given. But it didnt do that. 
And Ive seen that when it made a note of Mr Ps concerns following the call, the complaints 
team said they related to his current operator card. But thats not right as his current card 
had a different number to the one referred to in Santanders letter. Ive also heard that 
another call handler relied on those notes when Mr P called Santander again in October. 
So, Mr P had to correct the call handler and say the issue related to a previous operator card 
that had been replaced. I can appreciate from all that why Mr P thought Santander hadnt 
properly listened to his concerns. 
Overall, I think this was a simple issue that Santander could have addressed fairly quickly 
and easily. But I think its handling of it made things worse. And that caused more 
inconvenience because Santander transferred Mr P to different people to try to get answers. 
So to put things right, I now think Santander needs to recognise the inconvenience caused 
to Mr P due to its failure to provide full and clear explanations about its letter quickly enough. 
Ill be partly upholding Mr P's complaint on that basis and asking Santander to award Mr P 
£100 compensation on behalf of M. Im satisfied thats a fair outcome in the circumstances.
Mr P accepted my provisional findings and Santander didnt have any comments to make.Putting things right
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also again considered what I said in my provisional decision.
As Mr P accepted my provisional findings and Santander had no comments to make, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I reached in that decision. So, my final decision is as 
set out below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK plc to:
Pay Mr P £100 compensation on behalf of M in relation to the inconvenience suffered 
when Santander didnt provide full and clear explanations about its letter quickly 
enough.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P on behalf of 
M to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman