DRN-3242852
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) provided poor customer
service in relation to his ISA transfer. He also said it failed to make reasonable adjustments
for him when it didnt send him the transcripts of relevant phone calls.  
What happened
Mr B phoned Nationwide on 13 May 2020 to enquire about an ISA transfer request hed
made. He asked if Nationwide had received it. The adviser gave Mr B the usual turnaround 
time for processing requests like these, and also told him that due to the pandemic, staff 
were busier than usual.
Mr B didnt hear back from Nationwide, so he raised a complaint on 18 May 2020. He was
unhappy about the time it was taking to process his transfer request, the time it took to get
through to someone on the phone and also that no one had called him back.
Nationwide acknowledged it had taken it longer than usual to process the ISA transfer and
offered Mr B £25 to say sorry for this. Mr B didnt accept this offer, saying the level of
compensation offered didnt reflect the worry the delay had caused him. He also told us he
has a condition which means he cant do things independently like others can, and this
causes him heightened anxiety and stress.
As Mr B disagreed with Nationwides offer, he referred the complaint to this service. Our
investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She thought the
£25 offer was fair in the circumstances. Mr B didnt agree with our investigator  and wanted
an ombudsman to look at everything again, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
I issued my provisional decision on 28 October 2021. I explained why I didnt think 
Nationwide had treated Mr B fairly and I said that unless I received anything which changed 
my mind, Id require Nationwide to pay Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced. Ive included an extract from my provisional decision below:
The original complaint Mr B brought to us was about the service hed received from
Nationwide about his ISA transfer. Once the complaint had been referred to me, it was clear
Mr B was also unhappy about his repeated requests for transcripts of calls  requests he felt
were being ignored.
Because Nationwide has agreed to me looking into this issue as part of this complaint, Im
going to include my provisional thoughts on Mr Bs complaint about the transcripts in this
decision.
But Ill first deal with the original complaint about the delayed ISA transfer. Whilst its clear
Nationwide has acknowledged it took longer to process the transfer than usual, when this
complaint came to me I didnt think Nationwide had done enough to recognise how the
additional delay had affected Mr B, due to the fact that his condition makes everyday things
harder for him. For example, he requires support when using the phone and writing
correspondence  he cant do this alone. He also pays for this support. So in the
circumstances, I asked Nationwide if it would consider increasing its offer to £50 for the
delay in transferring Mr Bs ISA. It agreed to increase its offer to £50 for this.
Mr B didnt accept that offer  thats when he raised the issue that its taking Nationwide far
too long to deal with a request hes made for call transcripts. He said this is a breach of the
Equality Act 2010 and that Nationwide has failed to send transcripts to him despite repeated
requests, so its failed to make a reasonable adjustment for him under equality law.
I currently think the £50 offered for the initial delay in transferring the ISA is a fair level of
compensation in the circumstances. Theres nothing in the phone call Ive listened to which
makes me think the adviser gave Mr B any false hope about receiving a call back. When he
asked if she would call him back today she said no. And she told him there was a five
working day turnaround time for requests like these to be processed. So when Mr B raised a
complaint on 18 May, it had only been three business days since the phone call.
But because Nationwide took longer than usual to process the transfer, I think it should
compensate Mr B for this  and thats because of the heightened impact I think this delay
wouldve had on Mr B, as a vulnerable consumer, with a condition which makes things more
difficult for him and increases the worry he experienced. Mr B has explained to me, with the
help of his support worker, how things like delays can affect him. Hes said his
communication difficulties means the more time he spends on the phone the more he has to
pay someone to help him, and thats caused him financial hardship. This then causes him
stress and worry  and I think the level of distress would be more significant than that
experienced by other customers who may not have Mr Bs difficulties. So, considering the
greater impact of the delay, I think the circumstances warrant compensation of £50.
In relation to the issue about the transcripts, I need to clarify that this service is unable to
make a finding on whether or not something constitutes discrimination under the Equality Act
2010. This is because we are an informal free alternative to the courts, and only a court of
law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the Act. However, I can 
consider whether or not Nationwide has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and in order 
to do that I will take a number of things, including the Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
In this case, I dont currently think Nationwide has treated Mr B fairly in relation to his request
for transcripts. Nationwide says it hasnt received any requests for transcripts, but Im more
persuaded by Mr Bs testimony on this point, which is consistent, plausible and persuasive 
and is supported by correspondence weve received from Mr Bs support worker. The
correspondence highlights instances where transcripts have been requested including during
a phone call between Mr Bs mother and Nationwide on 14 January 2021, and again in a
phone call between Mr Bs mother and Nationwide in February 2021. On both occasions,
Ive been told Mr Bs mother was advised that nothing could be done  in part because the
case was with this service.
I understand Nationwide provided us with a link, which was sent on to Mr B, in order for him
to be able to make a data subject access request (DSAR) if he wanted call recordings or
transcripts. I dont consider this to be particularly helpful due to Mr Bs condition  which Im
satisfied Nationwide knew about. I say this because Ive seen contact notes dating back to
2018 which refer to a Specialist Support Team and the fact that Mr B is a vulnerable
consumer. Given Nationwides awareness of Mr Bs condition  which includes a processing
disorder that means he struggles with information gathering and processing  I think
Nationwide couldve done more to provide the transcripts to Mr B, without the need for Mr B
to make a DSAR. Making a DSAR would be extremely difficult for Mr B, without paid support
 and so I dont think its fair to require Mr B to have to do this in order to get transcripts
which would help him process information about his complaint more easily.Ive reviewed the contact notes Nationwide has sent me, but these dont tell me what was
discussed during the phone calls so I cant be sure whether transcripts were requested in
any of those conversations. Nationwide has said that adding free text notes isnt within the
functionality or purpose of the contact log  and that the log would show a fixed note saying
DSAR request if transcripts had been requested. Nationwide says the absence of such a
note indicates that transcripts hadnt been requested and that Nationwide would respond
and comply with such a request in good time.
Whilst Ive carefully considered what Nationwide has said in relation to this point, I dont think
it can say with certainty that it would always log and respond to a request properly  or that
mistakes are never made. And as Ive mentioned, Ive found Mr Bs testimony in relation to
this point persuasive  so I think its likely Mr B has at some point requested transcripts, if
not more than once, despite there being no record of this. Because of Nationwides delay in
getting these to him, Im minded to require Nationwide to pay Mr B £200 for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
That brings the total amount of compensation Im minded to award in this complaint to £250.
I think this fairly reflects the worry and frustration Mr B has experienced both in relation to
the ISA transfer and in relation to the lack of transcripts. Im also minded to ask Nationwide
to send Mr B transcripts of all the phone calls hes made to Nationwide since the initial
phone call about the ISA transfer in May 2020, until now. If Nationwide can send Mr B these
transcripts in an accessible format following this provisional decision, instead of waiting for a
final decision on the matter, this would be preferable, as the transcripts will enable Mr B to
make representations more easily in relation to this complaint.
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision, adding that hed attempted to use the DSAR link 
but it didnt work. Nationwide said in response to my provisional decision that it had tried to 
accommodate Mr Bs requests since this service had made it aware that transcripts of calls 
were required, and that it hadnt been able to locate the calls in which Mr B and others on his 
behalf had asked for transcripts. It didnt think the increase in compensation was warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having considered the replies from both parties, Im upholding this 
complaint in line with my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mr B says hes been requesting the transcripts of calls for some time now  and still 
has not received them. Nationwide says it cant locate any instances of him 
requesting the transcripts. But, on balance, and based on the information Mr B has 
given us, Im satisfied a request was made at least once if not more. The notes 
Nationwide has given me dont tell me what was discussed during calls. So I cant 
say transcripts werent requested during those calls and that the DSAR just wasnt 
properly noted down or processed. So I think Nationwide should compensate Mr B 
for not treating him fairly in relation to his request for transcripts.
Mr B has provided considerable detail about how it affects him when hes unable to 
carry out everyday tasks without paid support, due to his condition  and how 
Nationwides treatment of him has disadvantaged him further. He wanted transcripts 
of the calls so he could make representations to this service about this complaint. 
When he didnt receive these, he felt that nobody cared enough to provide a vital 
service to him  a service that wouldve made him feel more equal, independent, and 
able to argue his own case.Neither party has commented on my provisional award for the initial delay in 
transferring the ISA, so I see no reason to change what Ive said in my provisional 
decision about this and will require Nationwide to pay compensation for the delay, 
which I consider had a greater impact on Mr B due to his condition, which makes 
things more difficult for him and increases the level of worry he experiences.
Considering the anxiety and upset caused to Mr B, both for the delay in transferring 
the ISA and for failing to provide him with transcripts of calls in a straightforward and 
timely manner, I think Nationwide should pay Mr B £250 compensation which 
includes the £50 it agreed to pay. I consider this award fairly compensates Mr B for 
the distress and inconvenience hes experienced overall.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr B £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman