DRN-3458493
The complaint
Mr F and Miss S complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) unfairly set up their 
mortgage in two parts, one of which was on its standard variable rate (SVR) rather than the 
fixed rate they wanted. They also complain that, having found out about YBSs error, they 
had to decide between switching interest rates to save money or waiting so that the 
mortgage rate could be backdated if the complaint was upheld.
What happened
Mr F and Miss S originally took a mortgage with YBS in 2015 and successfully applied for a 
new rate product in 2018. Their mortgage at that time was approximately £177,000 and their 
new interest rate was 1.84%, fixed until 30 April 2020.
In February 2020 YBS wrote to Mr F and Miss S reminding them their fixed rate would expire 
soon and inviting them to apply for a new one. But Mr F and Miss S were planning to move 
so contacted YBS around the same time to discuss their mortgage as a whole. They booked 
an appointment with one of YBSs mortgage advisors and that took place on                       
28 February 2020.
During the appointment Mr F and Miss S explained they were in the process of selling their 
home and buying another. They hoped to complete in the next few months. The advisor 
explained that if they completed before 1 May 2020, theyd have to have the mortgage in two 
parts  the new part on an interest rate of their choosing and the existing part on their 
existing interest rate product  unless they wanted to pay the early redemption charge (ERC) 
applying to their existing mortgage rate product. After the existing interest rate product 
expired  30 April 2020  they could apply for a new one or remain on the SVR for that part 
of their mortgage.
The advisor said, alternatively, if they paid the ERC or completion was after 30 April 2020, 
they could have the whole mortgage on one interest rate product. Mr F and Miss S said they 
wanted the whole mortgage on one rate and they didnt want to pay the ERC, but they 
thought it was likely their sale and purchase would complete before the end of April. 
Based on that, YBS sent them a mortgage offer dated 17 March 2020 (valid until                
13 September 2020). That offer showed a new mortgage in two parts  Part 1 was for a fixed 
rate of 1.84% until 30 April 2020 and applied to their existing balance. Part 2 was for a fixed 
rate of 2.10% until 31 May 2022 and applied to the new amount required in addition to their 
existing mortgage.
Unfortunately, Mr F lost his job before completion and while he found new employment 
relatively soon after, that delayed completion of their sale and purchase to July 2020. YBSs 
underwriting notes show that Mr F and Miss S sent it copies of their employment letters and 
contracts in June 2020. A new mortgage offer was issued to them on 24 June 2020. That 
offer showed a mortgage in two parts  Part 1 was on the SVR (4.49% at that time) and 
applied to their existing balance. Part 2 was for a fixed rate of 2.10% until 31 May 2022 and 
applied to the new amount required in addition to their existing mortgage.
Mr F and Miss S say they didnt notice that the new offer showed that the mortgage would be 
partly on SVR. They complained to YBS in February 2021 and, soon after, discussed moving 
Part 1 of their mortgage to a fixed rate. However, they say they were told moving to a new 
rate before their complaint was decided may mean YBS may not be able to backdate their 
mortgage rate from July 2020 if their complaint is upheld. So, Mr F and Miss S delayed 
getting a new rate product until March 2021.
In its final response letter dated 9 March 2021, YBS said it hadnt made an error or acted 
unfairly to Mr F and Miss S. It said Mr F and Miss S were told in the call of 28 February 2020 
that if Mr F and Miss S ported their mortgage and if the mortgage did not complete until after 
30 April 2020, they would need to complete an Existing Borrower Transfer and they would 
be on SVR until they did so. And it said the mortgage offer of June 2020 confirms Part 1 of 
the mortgage would be on SVR.
YBS also didnt uphold Mr F and Miss Ss complaint about having no choice but to pay the 
SVR while waiting for the outcome of their complaint in February 2021. It said                     
Mr F and Miss S were told they could change product and if YBS had made an error they 
couldve asked for the rate to be backdated. But Mr F and Miss S opted not to go ahead with 
a product change at that time.
Dissatisfied with YBSs response, Mr F and Miss S asked us to consider their complaint. Our 
investigator thought YBS hadnt acted unfairly in respect of the first part of Mr F and Miss Ss 
complaint. He said YBS gave Mr F and Miss S fair warning that their fixed rate product was 
ending. With regard to the second part of Mr F and Miss Ss complaint he didnt think YBS 
had told them to wait for the outcome of the complaint before changing interest rate product. 
But he did conclude that YBS had subsequently charged more interest for part of the month 
of March 2021, when the new interest rate should have applied. He said Mr F and Miss S 
should decide whether they want that refunded or treated as an overpayment.
Mr F and Miss S didnt agree. They said they feel YBS has taken advantage of them and 
they paid a higher rate of interest for no reason. They say the documentation to move home 
was ridiculously complicated and overloaded with jargon. With regard to the second part of 
their complaint, they say there was another phone call where they were told by YBS the rate 
could not be backdated after the complaint was resolved.
YBS also didnt agree with our investigators findings  in particular regarding the second 
part of Mr F and Miss Ss complaint. It said Mr F and Miss S were aware they were on the 
SVR since February 2021, but didnt apply for a new rate until 23 March 2021. And it said it 
is satisfied Mr F and Miss S knew about the implications of not applying sooner. YBS said 
the product transfer was processed quickly, but Mr F and Miss S werent charged at the new 
rate until 1 May 2021 and that was in line with the completion letter. In any event, the new 
rate was applicable in April and it applied the difference as an overpayment. So,                 
Mr F and Miss S didnt lose out financially in that regard.
As neither party agreed with our investigators findings, their complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
To decide Mr F and Miss Ss complaint, Ive thought about whether it was fair for 
YBS to set up their mortgage, partially on its SVR, given what it knew about their wishes from the mortgage interview of 28 February 2020. And Ive thought about 
whether Mr F and Miss S should have known from the mortgage offer dated            
24 June 2020 that the mortgage offered wasnt what they wanted. Ive also thought 
about whether YBS acted unreasonably in respect of Mr F and Miss Ss complaint 
and potential interest rate product switch from February 2021.
YBS says that if Mr F and Miss S ported their mortgage and if the mortgage did not 
complete until after 30 April 2020, they would need to complete an Existing Borrower 
Transfer and they would be on SVR until they did so. Ive thought carefully about 
that.
Mr F and Miss Ss fixed rate expired at the end of April 2020. At that time their 
mortgage rate automatically changed to the SVR and an early redemption charge no 
longer applied. I think its reasonable that their mortgage changed to SVR at that time 
 Mr F and Miss Ss mortgage offer of 2018 said it would, theyd been sent a letter 
informing them of that and they hadnt arranged to switch to a new interest rate 
product. The reason for Mr F and Miss S not switching was they hadnt completed on 
their sale and purchase and they wanted to have the whole mortgage on one rate. I 
think its clear, from their mortgage interview of 28 February 2020, that would have 
been their intentions should they not complete by the end of April 2020. Ill address 
that interview in more depth later in my decision.
Generally, there would be no need or benefit to porting a mortgage that was on an 
SVR and Ive not seen anything to suggest that it was necessary in this case. Thats 
because Mr F and Miss S had no benefit in taking the interest rate with them to the 
new mortgage and were not tied to the rate because of an early redemption charge. 
So, there was no need to set up the mortgage in two parts. And YBSs statement 
about what they would need to do if porting their mortgage after the end of April 2020 
shouldnt have any relevance here. If that was what the advisor meant in the 
mortgage interview of 28 February 2020, I dont think that was correct. Thats 
because she shouldnt have suggested Mr F and Miss S should port their existing 
mortgage if their sale and purchase didnt complete before the end of April 2020.
YBS has provided a recording of the telephone mortgage interview of                      
28 February 2020. During that interview, the YBS advisor asked lots of questions to 
establish Mr F and Miss Ss wants and needs and carefully discussed the scenarios 
of completing before the end of April and after. It was clear that Mr F and Miss S 
expected to complete before the end of April, but aspects of that scenario werent 
ideal for them, particularly the separate parts to the mortgage. They discussed the 
possibility of paying the early repayment charge rather than having the mortgage in 
two parts, but Mr F and Miss S didnt want to do that because it was an additional 
and avoidable expense. The advisor said the downside if Mr F and Miss S didnt 
complete before 1 May was that Mr F and Miss S will be on the SVR until they do.  
Mr F and Miss S said theyd want to consolidate products as soon as possible and 
the advisor explained that consolidation could only happen at the end of a rate 
period.
It isnt clear whether the advisor suggested a mortgage in two parts would be 
necessary if completion was after the end of April. I think her saying  in that 
scenario  Mr F and Miss S would be on SVR until they did complete would lead 
them to believe they wouldnt be on SVR after they completed. 
I think it was reasonable for YBS to base the mortgage offer of 17 March 2020 on two 
separate parts as it was Mr F and Miss Ss expectation that theyd complete before 
the end of April, but I think it was clear what they wanted if they didnt complete before then. YBS has also provided a copy of its underwriting notes. Recorded on 
those are the following comments from the advisor:
Did highlight the 3y was only a few pounds more however Mr said they would 
rather try to align the products sooner rather than later and not delay it any 
longer. 
The interview of 28 February 2020 was the only fact finding discussion which took 
place before the mortgage completed. So, it was that interview from which YBS 
gained an understanding of Mr F and Miss Ss wants and needs. 
I think its likely  from the format in which they were provided by YBS to us  that the 
underwriting notes were available to the underwriter before YBS produced the 
mortgage offer letter dated 24 June 2020. I dont think that mortgage offer reflects the 
needs and wants of Mr F and Miss S. And I havent seen anything to suggest the 
mortgage needed to be set up in two parts. So, I dont think it was reasonable for 
YBS to set up the mortgage in a way that was clearly disadvantageous to                
Mr F and Miss S and didnt meet their stated preference. In that regard, Im mindful of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) principles about businesses treating 
customers fairly. Principle six says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
It isnt clear from the mortgage offer letters whether YBS considered that it gave 
advice to Mr F and Miss S in relation to their new mortgage. However, as Ive said 
above, YBS has provided a copy of the call recording of the mortgage interview 
between its adviser and Mr F and Miss S in February 2020. During the call the 
adviser asked lots of questions to establish what Mr F and Miss S wanted to achieve. 
The discussion was detailed about their circumstances and the adviser had a good 
understanding of what they wanted to achieve in either of the potential scenarios.
I think it would be reasonable, from that call, for Mr F and Miss S to assume YBS was 
providing advice to them. With regard to Principle six I think YBS paid regard to     
Mr F and Miss Ss interests by carefully establishing what they wanted to achieve. 
But I think it disregarded that knowledge when it set up their mortgage in two parts, 
one of which was on the SVR. In doing that, I dont think YBS treated                       
Mr F and Miss S fairly.
I accept that YBS did inform Mr F and Miss S in its offer letter of 24 June 2020 how 
the mortgage would be set up. And I agree that Mr F and Miss S should have read 
the mortgage offer and asked YBS if there was anything they didnt understand. But I 
also accept that documentation of that type is not always easy to understand and 
individual points are easy to miss. 
Mr F and Miss S have said the documentation to move home was ridiculously 
complicated and overloaded with jargon. They were not the experts in this 
relationship and they cannot necessarily be expected to have understood the 
process  in particular the apparent need for another fact finding interview to 
establish their wants and needs after April 2020. 
I think Mr F and Miss S are likely to have gained confidence that YBS would be 
acting in their best interests, given the detail they provided to the adviser. And I think 
they had no reason to believe YBS would apply SVR to a substantial part of their 
mortgage given that their previous offer was all on fixed rates  albeit in two parts. I think YBS should have been able to understand what Mr F and Miss S wanted from 
the February 2020 interview and I think it was reasonable for Mr F and Miss S to 
think that too. So, I think it was reasonable, in the circumstances, for them to assume 
the mortgage offer of June 2020 reflected their wants and needs. I dont think, given 
that YBS failed to set the mortgage up in line with Mr F and Miss Ss stated wishes, it 
would be fair to conclude that was negated by Mr F and Miss Ss responsibility to 
read and understand the offer in this case.
Given what Ive said, I think YBS made an error in the setting up of Mr F and Miss Ss 
mortgage and I think they should put that right. Ill explain how below. 
With regard to the second part of Mr F and Miss Ss complaint, I think my proposed 
resolution to the first part of their complaint may make that irrelevant. But if either 
party disagrees, Ill consider their comments.
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr F and Miss S accepted my decision and, of the options I outlined in my provisional 
decision, said they would like YBS to refund the difference between the payments they 
actually made and the payments they would have made on the fixed rate.
YBS also accepted my provisional decision.
As both parties have accepted my decision and Ive received no new evidence or arguments 
to consider, I wont change the outcome outlined in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr F and Miss Ss complaint, YBS should put them back in the position they 
would have been in  or as close to it as possible  had its error not occurred. So, it should:
Rework the mortgage assuming that part 2s fixed rate product applies to the whole 
mortgage amount and change the mortgage to one part only.
Refund the difference between payments Mr F and Miss Ss actually made and the 
payments they would have made on the fixed rate to them.
Pay them £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr F and Miss S have 
been put to some trouble to resolve this matter and Ive seen from their 
correspondence just how frustrating the whole issue has been for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr F and Miss Ss complaint about Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman