DRN-3516803
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly advised her about her tax liability during 
a review of her investments. She says it also failed to explore other alternatives to reduce 
her tax liability. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs S spoke with a HSBC adviser. It recorded that she wanted to review her 
existing arrangements as she was not comfortable with the level of risk associated with 
some of her investments, as well as the amount of exposure to UK asset classes. Mrs S was 
advised to invest in the HSBC Global Sustainable Multi-Asset Conservative Portfolio.  
Mrs S received a Financial Planning Report (FPR) which she went through over the phone 
with the adviser. Within the report, amongst other things HSBC estimated that Mrs S would 
be liable to pay £17,229.62 if she surrendered two of her bonds but her actual tax liability 
was around £35,000. 
Unhappy about this Mrs S complained to HSBC. It looked into her concerns but didnt uphold 
the complaint. In short, it said its adviser estimated the tax liability and outlined this in the 
FPR. It said the amount was clearly set out along with a breakdown of how its adviser 
arrived at the figure. It also said alternative options were explored, so it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. 
Mrs S remained unhappy with the response and so referred her complaint to us. Our 
Investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary she said Mrs S 
wouldve gone ahead with HSBCs recommendation even if she had been aware of the true 
amount of tax due because Mrs S objectives were to reduce the risk and UK exposure of 
her bonds. 
Following the Investigators view, HSBC provided further evidence. I wrote to both parties to 
explain I was satisfied the difference in tax was due to Mrs S not disclosing a withdrawal. 
In response, Mrs S didnt agree and said the adviser persuaded her to invest her life savings 
which resulted in her paying twice the amount of estimated tax. Mrs S says she is classed as 
a potentially vulnerable customer and that another party shouldve been present  she says 
she had reservations of discussing matters over the telephone.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S received advice in July 2020 about her overall investments. HSBC has submitted the 
adviser notes for this period which included the FPR, fact find and a copy of the call 
recording when the advice took place. 
From the fact find, Mrs S said she didnt have a specific plan for her savings, she had 
enough cash reserve, and her income met her outgoings. The FPR confirmed that Mrs S 
wanted to review some of her existing arrangements as she was not comfortable with the 
level of risk associated with them, as well as the amount of exposure to UK asset classes. 
Mrs S also wanted to grow her savings and investments to provide the opportunity for better 
returns than cash. And, to make her investments more tax efficient. 
Following the advice, HSBC recommended the HSBC Global Sustainable Multi-Asset 
Conservative Portfolio. Having reviewed the fact sheet I can see that it has a relatively small 
exposure to the UK market and so I think HSBCs advice met with Mrs S objective. Further, 
based on what Mrs S has said about other investments shes made I am satisfied that the 
advice given was in line with her risk profile. 
I do think the crux of this complaint is about the amount of tax Mrs S eventually paid. Within 
Mrs S portfolio there were several investments, however the tax bill was specifically incurred 
due to two bonds being encashed, Ill refer to them as Bond A and Bond B. 
Having looked at the FPR it says under Additional Costs: 
In addition, making changes to your existing investments will have the following 
implications: (All figures are approximate and based on the information you provided)  
youll make an estimated chargeable event of £12,820.82 on surrender of your investment 
bonds with Bond A and Bond B We estimate that the surrender of your investment bonds 
with Bond A and Bond B will cost a total of £17,229.62 in tax and loss of allowances, as 
outlined above 
Mrs S tax liability was actually around £35,000  which is much higher than she anticipated. 
HSBC has provided an explanation of why it estimated the tax liability the way it did. 
Essentially in terms of Bond A, Mrs S didnt inform HSBC about a withdrawal she made of 
£45,000. 
HSBC provided an extract from a technical note from its internal tax advisers. In terms of 
Bond A, the initial investment was £100,000 in 2008, HSBC recorded no withdrawals taken, 
and the current value (at the time of the advice) was recorded as £136,454 but in the end, 
Mrs S actually received £137,549.80 (surrender value). HSBC said based on an estimated 
gain of £36,454, along with the gains Mrs S made on Bond B, it estimated the tax liability. 
However, had HSBC had known about the £45,000 withdrawal Mrs S made from Bond A it 
would have meant the gain it estimated would have been much higher, nearer to the figure 
actually made on the bond of just over £82,000. On balance I think this is the reason HSBC 
underestimated the tax liability. 
I appreciate Mrs S has said she wasnt aware she needed to provide HSBC with information 
regarding her withdrawal but again, referring to the FPR it says: 
All figures are approximate and based on the information you provided  My estimate is for 
indicative purposes and doesnt constitute tax advice. Please speak to a professional tax 
adviser for further guidance or advice. 
HSBC were only able to make estimates based on the information Mrs S provided, and I 
think its reasonably clear that she needed to supply information about previous withdrawals. 
I say this because HSBC has told us Mrs S was asked about previous withdrawals before 
the advice was given and it confirmed that it was made aware of the withdrawal from Bond B 
which formed part of its tax estimate. 
Im satisfied that there was a warning that the figures were approximate, and the advice 
didnt constitute tax advice. Having listened to the call when the advice took place, Im 
satisfied Mrs S was aware that as the bonds had been held for a number of years without review, a significant profit had built up over the years and therefore there would be a 
significant tax bill. Mrs S also confirmed that she had read all the paperwork thoroughly, 
whilst she did have a lot of questions these were addressed with the adviser at the time. 
Mrs S says that other more tax efficient options were not discussed but during the call, the 
adviser explains that as Mrs S is close to being a higher rate taxpayer some of the options 
they discussed, for example withdrawing 5% each year would make some savings but 
nothing significant to which Mrs S agreed. The adviser also went on to explain that the fund 
Mrs S was investing into would benefit using ISA accounts to avoid paying capital gains and 
income tax. Mrs S also asked what would happen if she did nothing and left everything to 
her estate, Im satisfied she was aware that doing nothing wasnt going to be tax efficient. 
I know Mrs S said that given her age, HSBC had an obligation to recommend someone else 
was present during the phone conversation and Mrs S wasnt entirely comfortable talking 
over the telephone. But due to the pandemic this was the way HSBC was conducting its 
business and its not for me to interfere with that. Further, during the call, I am satisfied that 
the adviser asked Mrs S if she wanted a family member or friend present to which Mrs S 
declined, so I cant say HSBC has acted unfairly here.  
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S and I do empathise, but I dont think HSBC were responsible for the 
higher tax liability Mrs S incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman