DRN-3289338
The complaint
Mr Y complains that RCI Financial Services Limited didnt inform him about the mileage limit 
in his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr Y signed a finance agreement in January 2018 under which he agreed to an annual 
mileage of 6,000 miles. When he voluntarily terminated the agreement he had exceeded the 
mileage limit and RCI imposed a charge of £946.80. There were other charges for damage 
to the car which are not disputed. Mr Y has explained that his daily mileage for work is come 
60 miles and he wouldnt have signed the agreement had he know it was only for 6,000 
miles a year.
He has also explained that he is dyslexic which may have led to him not being aware of the 
mileage figure. RCI spoked to the dealer and it said it had no record of this.  
While I have every sympathy with Mr Y the reality is that he signed an agreement which 
clearly noted the mileage limit. I cannot say what was said but either him or the dealer at that 
time and if he asked any questions about the mileage or of the dealer explained the mileage 
to him. 
I am satisfied that it came as surprise to him when he ended the agreement, but that does 
not mean that I can hold RCI responsible for his lack of awareness. The mileage figure was 
set out in the documentation and ultimately I was up to him to be satisfied with what he was 
signing. The figure wasnt hidden away in the small print and I cannot say that RCI or the 
dealer did anything to hide it.
I would add that had Mr Y taken out an agreement with a higher mileage then his monthly 
payments would have been greater. I recognise that he may not have wished to take out a 
more expensive agreement, but the effect of the charge is that he has paid for the level of 
use he made of the car. 
In summary I cannot safely conclude that RCI has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman