DRN-2896164
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC unfairly refused to pay 
a claim on his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ds been helped by a relative. But, for ease of reading, I'll 
refer to her comments as being Mr Ds. 
Reference to Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ds car was stolen. His comprehensive motor insurer paid his claim for the market value 
of the stolen car. He claimed on his GAP policy for the difference between that settlement 
and the cost of a new replacement car. Some months later Amtrust refused Mr Ds claim as 
it said that CCTV footage of the theft showed the car was unlocked at the time.
Mr D brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't 
think Amtrust had dealt with Mr D fairly. He said it should reassess Mr Ds claim in line with 
the remaining terms of the policy, add interest to any settlement and pay Mr D £300 
compensation.
Amtrust didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so it's been passed 
to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Amtrust said that after looking at the CCTV footage of the theft, the cars indicators didn't 
flash when the thief got into the car. And that meant that the car was unlocked at the time. It 
said it had contacted Mr Ds comprehensive motor insurer, which Ill refer to as A, whod told 
Amtrust that if it had known Mr Ds car wasn't locked then it wouldn't have paid his claim for 
the theft. 
Amtrust refused to pay Mr Ds GAP claim. It said it had done so because Mr Ds car wasn't 
deemed a total loss under the terms of the policy. It noted that the policy defines a total loss 
as:
the Insured Vehicle being the subject of accidental damage, fire or theft to the extent that 
the Insured Vehicle is forfeited, and a claim is paid as full and final settlement under the 
Motor Insurance Policy
It said that as the comprehensive insurer wouldn't have paid Mr Ds claim if it had known the 
car was left unlocked then Mr Ds car didn't meet the definition of total loss.
I'm not persuaded by Amtrust's arguments. Mr Ds policy clearly defines a total loss as a 
situation where the motor insurer has paid a claim for the loss of the car. That's happened in 
this case. That is, A has deemed Mr Ds car to be forfeited and paid his claim in full and final 
settlement under the terms of his motor policy. And there's simply no evidence that A has 
revoked or otherwise tried to change that decision. So, as A paid Mr Ds claim for the loss of 
Mr Ds car then his claim meets the definition of total loss as defined by the policy. So I don't 
think it was fair for Amtrust to decline Mr Ds claim on the basis that it has.
Further, I note Amtrust has said that A told it that it would have declined Mr Ds claim if it had 
known the car was unlocked. But I've seen the exchange between Amtrust and the motor 
insurer. And what the motor insurer actually said was:
If we can prove that the car was unlocked/a key used to take it then we would look to refuse 
the claim.
So the motor insurer didn't say that it would definitely have declined Mr Ds claim, only that
if it could prove the car was left unlocked or a key used to steal it then it would turn down 
his claim. I've seen no evidence that A either could prove Mr D left the car unlocked or that it 
has tried to find such proof. And I don't think Amtrust has provided such proof either.
I note Amtrust says that the CCTV footage shows that the indicators don't flash when the 
thief gets into the car, although this isn't clear on the footage that I've seen. I also accept that 
the indicators not flashing most likely means that the car wasn't locked at the time of the 
theft. But I don't think that necessarily means its most likely that Mr D or a named driver left 
it unlocked.
Mr D said that the car was parked at around 5pm and it was stolen around 4 hours later. 
The footage of the theft shows the thief confidently walking up to the passenger side of the 
car before getting in it and driving it away. And there was clearly plenty of time for a thief, or 
their accomplice, to walk past the car and use a cloned key/fob or other similar device to 
unlock the car at an earlier juncture, and then return to steal it later. So the fact that the car 
appears to have been unlocked at the time of the theft doesn't mean that Mr D or his named 
driver left the car unlocked when they parked it. 
Further, I've noted that Mr D still had the cars original keys after the theft. So one of the 
original keys wasn't used to steal the car. Amtrust had those keys examined by a specialist. 
The specialist noted that even if a thief had gained access to the car without a key then they 
would still have to bypass the cars electronic protection  its immobiliser etc  in order to be 
able to drive it away. The specialist said that they could only do that with a key or other 
device that mimicked the keys transponder chip. So it seems likely that the thief had a 
cloned key or other device that allowed them to drive the car away. And in those 
circumstances that cloned key/device would also most likely be able to unlock the car. So 
whether or not the car was left unlocked would seem immaterial as to whether or not it was 
stolen, as the thief would have been able to get into the car anyway.
After it disputed our investigators assessment of the complaint Amtrust implied that it had 
declined Mr Ds claim because it was somehow made fraudulently. I need to make clear that 
it's not my role to determine if someones acted fraudulently, as ultimately that's a matter for 
law enforcement agencies and the courts. But fraud is a serious allegation, it goes to 
someone's integrity, it alleges a criminal act (and might expose them to the risk of criminal 
investigation and prosecution) and it may have serious repercussions for an individual's 
ability to obtain insurance for years to come. So, before declining a claim on an allegation of 
fraud, I think its reasonable that an insurer like Amtrust must have enough evidence on 
which to base such an allegation. And I don't think Amtrust has that here. In fact, its offered 
no real evidence to support any such allegation. Neither the CCTV footage nor the specialists key report offer any evidence that Mr D or a named driver were involved in or 
complicit with the theft. So I'm not in any way persuaded that Amtrust had reasonable cause 
to decline Mr Ds claim on the grounds of any indication of fraud.
For completeness, Amtrust has pointed out that A reduced its settlement for the total loss of 
Mr Ds car because some penalty points weren't declared when he took the comprehensive 
motor policy out. But a mistake when applying for a motor policy isn't evidence of a 
fraudulent GAP claim. That said, As reduced payment for the market value of the car is 
something that may affect Amtrusts calculations when it settles Mr Ds GAP claim.
It follows that, in order to put things right, I think Amtrust should reassess Mr Ds claim 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. It should add simple interest to 
any claim settlement as set out below. And, as Amtrusts unfair declining of his claim has 
clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr D, I think it should pay him £300 
compensation.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to:
Reassess Mr Ds claim, accepting that his motor insurer deemed his car a total 
loss, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Amtrust should 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year to any settlement from the date of 
Mr Ds claim to the date it makes payment.1
Pay Mr D £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Amtrust considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.