DRN-3763481
The complaint
A, a limited company, represented by its director Mr E, has complained about its commercial 
motor insurer, QIC Europe Ltd as it cancelled As policy and declined the claim for theft.
QIC is the insurer for As policy, which began in 2020. But Mr E has often dealt, and is more 
familiar, with his broker, and the retail insurer, in which name the policy documents are 
produced. But it is QIC that bears the risk for the policy and so this decision is considered 
against it.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr E parked one of As cars on a street when he went to the airport. When 
he returned to collect the car a few weeks later it wasnt there. He made a claim to QIC.
QIC asked Mr E to provide it with various documents to show his home and As trading 
address. Having received details from Mr E, QIC had concerns that A was not trading from 
the address for trading which it was given when the policy was arranged. Which was Mr Es 
home address. QIC cancelled As policy and said it was declining the claim. It also explained 
that under the relevant legislation it considered that Mr E had acted deliberately or 
recklessly, which meant it would not return any premium paid. Mr E complained to us.
Our Investigator felt QIC had made a fair and reasonable decision. So he did not uphold the 
complaint. Mr E remained unhappy so his complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for any disappointment I know this will cause Mr E, I also think 
that QIC, on this occasion, reached a fair and reasonable outcome. As such I wont be 
upholding the complaint. Ive explained my views below. 
There is legislation which applies to contracts of insurance. In this case, with A being a 
limited company in the motor trade business, that is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). The 
Act says that when arranging insurance, the party to be insured must make a fair 
presentation to the insurer of the risk they present. The Act explains what is meant by fair 
presentation. The most relevant of those definitions here is that any matter of fact detailed 
to the insurer must be substantially correct. Which means that if a matter of fact is given that 
is incorrect, a fair presentation has not been made.
The statement of fact provided by QIC, completed when Mr E applied for cover for A, asked 
where is the business operated from?. Mr E was given a choice in answer of home, 
premises or mobile. And he answered Home: 100%. The address details he gave on 
application were for a property Ill refer to as 80. Mr E provided a copy of his driving licence 
showing his permanent address as being 80. So, for Mr E to have made a fair presentation 
to QIC of the risk A presents, A would have to trade 100% from 80.
QIC though thinks that A does not trade from 80 at all. It asked Mr E to provide details of 
As trading  such as V5 documents for its cars, and any sales invoices for cars it had sold. 
All of the documents Mr E provided showed cars registered to or sold from another address. 
An address Ill refer to as 40. And As registered company address is 40 too. I can 
understand why QIC was concerned about that  it would suggest that A is trading to some 
extent at least, from 40. Which would also mean that A was not trading 100% from 80.
I dont think QIC has ever asked Mr E why it appears that A is trading from 40. Our 
Investigator did ask Mr E why all of the V5s showed the 40 address. Mr E explained that A 
was set-up several years before the insurance policy with QIC was arranged, with the 40 
address  he has just never opted to change that address. And for ease of sales the V5 
documents reflect that same address. I can understand that logic. But it does mean that A is 
using/operating from 40 as its trading address. Whether or not cars are kept at that 
address or at 80, or elsewhere, I dont think it would be correct to say that A operates 
100% from 80. Which means that Mr E/A provided matter of fact detail to QIC which was 
not substantially correct. As such, Mr E/A failed in their duty to make a fair presentation to 
QIC of the risk A presents.
The Act also sets out what insurers can do when a breach of the duty to provide a fair 
presentation of risk occurs. If the insurer can show that but for the breach no policy would 
have been offered, then the breach becomes a qualifying breach, entitling the insurer to a 
remedy for the situation. Here QIC has shown that there are certain addresses it would not 
be prepared to offer cover for. The 40 address is one of them. So if QIC had known that A, 
at least in part, traded from 40, a policy would not have been offered. Which means that a 
qualifying breach occurred and QIC is entitled to a remedy in that respect.
The Act explains that a qualifying breach will be:
Deliberate or reckless; or
Neither deliberate or reckless.
The Act says that the qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless if the party to be insured 
(here that will be A or Mr E acting on As behalf):
Knew that they werent making a fair presentation; or
Didnt care whether or not they were breaching the duty to provide a fair presentation.
The Act further says that if the insurer wants to show the breach was deliberate or reckless, 
it is up to it to show that is most likely the case.
Here QIC has said it believes the incorrect detail was given to it deliberately or recklessly. 
But other than presenting the documents which show A was buying and selling cars using 
the 40 address, not 80; QIC hasnt supported that allegation. However, on this occasion, 
I do think that, by itself, the answer Mr E gave to the question asked by QIC, in light of the 
documented evidence, sufficiently demonstrates a lack of care on his part. So, on this 
occasion, I think it was fair for QIC to say that a deliberate or reckless qualifying breach had 
occurred. 
Where a deliberate or reckless qualifying breach occurs the Act allows the insurer to avoid 
the policy (treat it as though it never existed) and refuse the claim. By virtue of the Act the 
insurer, in that instance, need not return any premium. Here, in line with what the Act allows, 
QIC retained As premium and refused the claim. QIC cancelled the policy rather than avoiding it. Strictly speaking that is not in line with the option to avoid as given by the Act. 
But the cancellation for A (effective as of 2 June 2022), given QIC could keep the premium in 
any event, doesnt make A any worse off. So I think cancelling As policy, as opposed to 
avoiding it, in this instance, was a fair and reasonable thing for QIC to do.
I know Mr E is concerned that when he gave the detail and evidence he did when applying 
for the policy, As trading details werent checked by QIC at that time. Mr E seems to think 
that because QIC only asked to see his driving licence and a bank statement to evidence the 
80 address he had given, it shouldnt now, following a claim, be able to challenge that 
detail. But the Act says that QIC can do that. By virtue of the Act QIC was entitled to expect 
that a fair presentation  that A traded 100% from 80  had been made to it. QIC, 
therefore, was able to take the information submitted to it on good faith and had no reason to 
doubt it or check into that detail further. However, when investigating the claim QIC did find 
detail which gave it cause for concern about what it had been told when the policy had been 
arranged. Quite reasonably QIC undertook further investigations in that respect  
investigations which have ultimately resulted in its decline of As claim, cancellation of As 
policy, As complaint to this service and my decision. Having considered everything, I am 
satisfied that QIC has acted fairly and reasonably in this instance. As such I cant fairly and 
reasonably make it change its position.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman