DRN-3209143
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Allianz Insurance Plc has handled a subsidence claim 
theyve made on their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C has brought this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife, so for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to him throughout. References I make to Mr C and Allianz include the actions of Mrs C 
and Allianzs agents respectively.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been documented 
previously by our Investigator so Ive provided a summary here.
Mr C noticed damage to his property in 2016 and contacted Allianz to make a claim. 
A loss adjuster was appointed and following an inspection by an engineer, it was 
concluded subsidence had occurred caused by a tree on the pavement outside the 
house.
Once the tree was removed and there was no further movement, work started on the 
repairs.
Mr C was unhappy with various aspects of the claim and made a number of 
complaints about Allianzs actions. It issued final responses to these complaints and 
paid compensation where it acknowledged it had got things wrong.
While the subsidence claim was ongoing, there was an escape of water at the 
property and this was handled under a separate claim.
The most recent complaint detailed Mr Cs concerns about a number of issues 
including, but not limited to, delays, problems with the carpets, alternative 
accommodation, storage and heating. 
Allianz responded to this complaint in its final response in February 2020. It 
apologised for the additional delays experienced and provided updates and 
explanations about the remaining issues.
Mr C remained unhappy with Allianzs response and raised a complaint with this 
Service. 
Our Investigator explained we could consider the aspects of the claim over the period 
from July 2019 to February 2020 covered by the final response on 21 February 2020.
Having considered all the evidence, she concluded Allianz caused delays and the 
offer of £400 it had already made was fair in the circumstances. 
She also said there was insufficient evidence to conclude Allianz was responsible for 
damage to the carpets and flooring or that the damp and drainage issues were as a 
result of the subsidence.
Additionally, she said Mr C had been asked to provide further information to Allianz 
about the repairs to the windows for it to consider. She hadnt seen evidence to show 
the work Mr C said hed had to have undertaken to correct work undertaken by 
Allianz or that this work related solely to works from the subsidence claim.
Mr C provided further comments but these didnt change the Investigators mind and 
so Mr C asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have submitted a significant amount of evidence in support of their positions. My 
role as an Ombudsman at this service is to say how I think a complaint should be settled, 
quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will focus on what I consider to be the crux 
of the complaint and wont respond to every point raised by the parties, unless I consider it 
relevant to the decision I need to make. I mean no disrespect by this, its merely reflective of 
the informal nature of this Service. 
I know this claim has gone on for a long time and has been stressful for Mr C to deal with on 
top of responsibilities he has in his personal life. As our Investigator explained, this 
investigation covers an approximate six-month period in the total life of the claim, specifically 
between July 2019 and February 2020. So, my decision will focus on what happened then 
rather than everything that happened before or has happened since. 
When making an insurance claim, the onus is on the policyholder to show an insured event, 
covered by the policy, has taken place. Its unlikely I would tell an insurer to pay a claim, or 
part of it, if the damage being claimed for wasnt shown to be as a result of that insured 
event. Ill be considering this complaint in the light of these principles, whilst keeping in mind 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Ill deal with each of the issues in turn.
Delays
Helpfully, our Investigator detailed a broad timeline of events over the period under review 
which I wont repeat here. I acknowledge here Mr C doesnt agree with all of the timeline. But 
its clear from the evidence there were some delays and there was considerable back and 
forth about various snagging issues and whether certain areas of damage were as a result of 
an insured peril and included in the agreed schedule of works.
Allianzs communications through this period werent as prompt as they should have been 
and I can see Mr C had to regularly chase it for updates. I understand why this and the 
delays would have been particularly frustrating given the previous delays experienced and 
the total length of the claim. I should reiterate here, Im only considering the impact of delays 
over the period under review in this complaint and note other compensation has been paid 
for the other delays prior to this complaint. 
And having done so, Im not satisfied Allianz provided an acceptable level of service and it 
caused Mr C distress and inconvenience because of this failure. I know Allianz has 
acknowledged this and apologised to Mr C and paid him £400 by way of an apology. Taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The carpets 
Mr C says Allianzs contractors were responsible for two cigarette burns in the carpet and 
hadnt used enough carpet protection.Allianz has explained the contractors have a strict no smoking policy. I acknowledge here 
that having a policy doesnt mean it wont be broken on occasion. So, Ive gone on to look at 
the photos provided by Allianz in support of its position. These photos, taken before the 
contractors started work, show the burn marks already on the carpet. And while there may 
have been an inspection that took place before the work started when its possible the 
damage might have happened, Ive not seen enough evidence to safely conclude the 
contractors were responsible for the damage.
Even if they were responsible, I note Allianz offered to send out one of its carpet suppliers to 
inspect the damage and to ascertain whether the contractors were likely responsible. If it 
was concluded they were, it said it would look into restoring, cleaning or replacing the 
damaged carpet. Im satisfied this was a reasonable approach in the circumstances. 
I understand a final clean, including to the carpets, will be undertaken when all the work on 
both claims has been completed.
The flooring
Mr C believes Allianzs contractors are responsible for damage to the flooring in the lounge 
due to radiators leaking together with a lack of heating for an extended period. Hes not 
presented any evidence in support of this belief.
Allianzs subsidence expert concluded there was no subsidence related damage to the 
flooring only wear and tear related defects. There were some gaps and these were as a 
result of long-term expansion and contraction of the wood. I find the professional opinion of 
this expert to be persuasive.
Overall, Im not persuaded I can safely conclude the damage was caused in the way Mr C 
believes it was or that it should be covered under the subsidence claim.
Alternative accommodation
Mr C said the cost of some of the alternative accommodation provided by Allianz hadnt 
been paid and Allianz confirmed it would consider this on production or receipts. Since our 
Investigators involvement, Mr C confirms he has provided Allianz with the appropriate 
receipts but it hadnt yet made payment. 
I would expect Allianz to consider these receipts in line with what it said to Mr C and advise 
him promptly of its decision about whether it will cover the cost.
Storage
Our Investigator said Allianz had done what shed expect it to do on this aspect of the 
complaint, and after she shared her conclusions with the parties, Mr C confirmed this was no 
longer an issue.
Heating
There were some ongoing issues with the heating not working properly. Mr C says this has 
now been resolved and was sorted out by his own contractor with the assistance of another 
of Allianzs contractors under the separate escape of water claim. Allianz has reimbursed the 
costs Mr C incurred.
In response to the Investigators findings, Mr C says he spent £1,000 on multiple power 
flushes and replacement of filters in an attempt to fix it. He hasnt submitted any evidence to support this for me to consider nor is it clear to me if these were in addition to the costs 
Allianz has already reimbursed. Based on the evidence available, Im not satisfied I can 
safely say whether it would be fair or reasonable for Allianz to pay these costs.
If these are additional costs, yet to be reimbursed, Mr C may wish to approach Allianz 
directly with the proof of his expenditure for it to consider.
Drainage issues and damp
Mr C says one of Allianzs contractors removed a downpipe that was previously routed 
through his neighbours wall to a manhole. This resulted in water pouring onto the bay 
window and he believes this to be the source of the damp experienced to the front of the 
property. He says the issue was resolved by his contractor but Ive considered his concerns 
on this issue.
Having looked at the historic pictures of the property available on Google Street View, I can 
see in June 2017 the downpipe in question was already detached and the work by Allianzs 
contractor didnt commence until sometime after this, in 2018. So, Im not persuaded the 
contractor was responsible for this.
Ive gone on to consider the report provided by the damp specialists into the likely cause of 
the damp. The report concluded there were a number of potential causes, including but not 
limited to, the possible absence of a vapour barrier in the party wall shared with the next 
door neighbour, lateral moisture penetration through the party wall and the original damp 
proof course being below the outside ground level. 
Notably, theres nothing to show the damp is related to the subsidence issue or is as a result 
of problems with the drainage. So, Im satisfied Allianz has done what it needs to here and I 
wont be asking it to do anymore. 
Guarantees
Allianz provided Mr C with a certificate of structural adequacy in May 2019, confirming the 
areas of damage, the cause, the mitigation measures and the superstructure and 
redecoration works undertaken. 
It also provided a 10 year certificate of guarantee relating to the damp issues, covering damp 
proof, a cementitious/membrane and a timber treatment guarantees in November 2018.
I cant see that an electrician attended the property to undertake works requiring a guarantee 
during the period under review. But I can see arrangements were being made for one to visit 
in January 2020.
So, Im satisfied Allianz has provided appropriate guarantees as Mr C has requested. 
Repair works
Mr C was unhappy with the repair works and decoration undertaken on the front of the 
house and said these had only been partially completed so hed had to employ his own 
contractors to finish the work. Hes not provided any evidence to substantiate the costs he 
says hes incurred but I note Allianz has asked him to provide further information about this 
for it to look at. Im satisfied that is a reasonable course of action in the circumstances.
SummaryI realise this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, but overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman