DRN-3016618
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr D is represented by solicitors.
Background
In or around March 2016, Mr D, having responded to an advertisement, was contacted by a 
representative of a company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be 
installed at his home. Following a visit by a representative of P, Mr D decided to buy the 
system and to finance it mainly through a 5-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. 
The system was subsequently installed.
In December 2019 Mr Ds solicitors made a claim on his behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The solicitors said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr D to enter into the contract with P. The solicitors said the misrepresentations 
included:
The system panels would pay for themselves with the benefits received from the feed-
in tariff (or FIT) payments.
Mr Ds monthly loan repayments would be covered by his FIT payments.
The system would break even after 5 years.
Due to his electricity savings, Mr D would no longer receive electricity bills.
The solicitors also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. They said that the 
misleading representations made by P about the systems expected performance created an 
unfair relationship between Mr D and Shawbrook.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the solicitors provided: a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated December 
2013; the quote that P had given Mr D; copies of marketing material used by P; the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook; and some of Mr Ds FIT and electricity statements. 
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response letter to Mr D but did provide this services details. 
The solicitors referred the complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into 
what had happened. During our investigation Shawbrook provided an appendix of 
documentation between Trading Standards and HIES in relation to P. Having considered all 
the information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The solicitors didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, they said:
When reaching their view, the investigator afforded no consideration on the verbal 
representation made to Mr D during the sales presentation.
The investigator didnt speak with Mr D and based their view on the assumption that the 
content of the solar documentation was a true reflection of what happened at the time.
The investigator failed to consider that the salesperson didnt discuss all the pages with 
Mr D that have been referred to.
The quotation was a lengthy document, containing lots of figures, table and graphs, 
which would not be easily understandable by all consumers.
Mr D didnt receive any paperwork until after the meeting with P.  
Mr D wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if he had been furnished with the 
quotation document and shown a monthly deficit.
Mr D wasnt presented with any other methods to pay for the system and was pressured 
into taking out the finance agreement.
Under the repeated reassurance of the salesperson that the returns from the system 
would cover his monthly loan repayments, Mr D agreed to the finance agreement.
Whether or not the system is operating in line with the Ps estimations, the system isnt 
generating enough benefits to cover Mr Ds monthly loan repayments as he was 
assured by the salesperson.
The investigator placed greater weight on evidence from external bodies such as 
Trading Standards and HEIS, than on Mr Ds evidence. 
This service allowed Shawbrook to provide us with evidence but did not engage with Mr 
D in the same manner.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 75(1) 
says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr D paid for the system in part with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook accepts 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr D could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way he could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. For 
the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This says:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there was an unfair relationship.
Mr D has decided to be represented by solicitors in his complaint to Shawbrook. The 
complaint letter submitted to Shawbrook was five pages long and set out in some detail the 
reasons for the section 75 claim and the alleged representations that were made and that 
induced Mr D to enter into the contract.
I think that its reasonable to assume that the letter of complaint accurately reflected what Mr 
D says he was told and his version of events at the time of sale. In some parts, the solicitors 
quoted what Mr D had said.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the solicitors. These include the 
credit agreement and Mr Ds solar quote, called Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering 
whether there were any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ds recollection of the sale.
Ive noted that the solicitors provided the quote when they made the complaint to 
Shawbrook, so Im satisfied that Mr D did receive a copy of this at or around the time the 
system was sold. The credit agreement, which was also provided at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
Quotation documentPage eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr D could expect to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote. 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, make it clear that Mr D could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £123.59 from his FIT.
Page 9 of the quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr D could expect from his 
system as well as any savings he would make from taking out any optional extras including a 
hot water controller. The expected year one electricity saving is £192.01 and the combined 
income and saving in year one is shown as £388.68. This is shown in a table titled Putting it 
all together.
The following page, page 10, has a section titled Repayments. This has three tables set out 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. The table for 60 months is the length of the 
loan that Mr D entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 60 monthly 
payments of £116.59 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, 
averaged over a monthly basis, against the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare his FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover his 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that he was told that his monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr D makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£6,250. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price is 
£6,250, that Mr D made an advance payment of £750 and that the total amount of credit is 
£5,500. The agreement shows too that the total amount payable would be £7,745.40.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the price of the system was £6,250.00, it would cost 
Mr D more than this as he had decided to pay most of that with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr D that the system would pay for itself.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system against 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr D was expected to have made a 
loss of £84.20 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £82.36 a 
month. It wouldnt be until some considerable time after the loan agreement had ended that 
the expected benefits would exceed his monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mr D was told that the system would pay for itself. I think the 
quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and the 
monthly loan repayments.
A further graph on page 6 of the quotation clearly showed the average monthly cost during 
the currency of the loan exceeding the profit that Mr D could expect to receive from the 
system in that period.  
I do accept that Mr D was told that hed receive a year one benefit of £388.68 as this was the 
expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy bills. 
Im satisfied that the quote makes it clear that hed have to make loan repayments and 
overall there would be a deficit. I dont accept that Mr D was told by P that the system would 
pay for itself over the term of the loan. Page 12 of the quote has a table headed Estimated 
performance over 30 years:This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mr D could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under his loan agreement. His savings the following year 
would cover the advance payment. 
As Ive set out above, I think it likely that P told Mr D that he could expect the system to pay 
for itself by around year 15, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and if I were satisfied that this was what induced Mr D to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr D. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
1813.50 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments and 
savings in his energy bills that Mr D could expect to receive.
Between 1 April 2016 and 13 March 2019 the system generated a total of 5,393 kWh. I have 
calculated that the system generates, on average, 5.0 kWh per day or 1,827.7 kWh a year. 
This is higher than the estimated generation provided in the quote, so Im satisfied that the 
system is performing in line with, or in excess of, the quote.
So, based on this, I would expect Mr D to be close to recouping any initial losses from the 
system and for it to be paying for itself. Mr D has said that this isnt the case so Ive gone on 
to consider whether P overstated the potential income and savings Mr D could expect to 
receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mr D was personalised to his specific circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system that Mr 
D would use rather than buying it from his energy provider, leading to savings on his energy 
bills, and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual increase in 
RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based on the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote. 
The quote sets out that Mr D was expected to use, or self-consume, 68% of the kWh 
generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual saving of 
£192.01. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mr D was expected to self-consume were 
both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr D could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 8.38% 
and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the estimates 
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have increased by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56% a year. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions used by P 
and in my view explain why he isnt receiving the financial returns from the system that he 
may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the 
view that this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 
15 and certainly by the end of the loan term. Although I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed 
by the financial returns from his system, I dont believe this was because P used 
unreasonable assumptions when he entered into the contract for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there was an unfair relationship 
under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has said it paid 
no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im of 
the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the solicitors said that no consideration had been 
given to the verbal representations given to Mr D at the time of the sale. The view was based 
on the assumption that the quotation was a fair reflection of what was discussed. 
The solicitors said too that the sales representative did not discuss the quotation with Mr D 
and that he did not receive the paperwork until after the meeting. No alternative payment 
methods were discussed, only the loan. 
In fact, the investigators view expressly said that Mr Ds recollections had been considered 
carefully, along with the other available evidence. I too have considered all the available 
evidence, including Mr Ds evidence about what happened at the time of sale and his 
solicitors response to the investigators preliminary assessment. The fact that the 
investigator did not find in Mr Ds favour does not mean that no consideration was given to 
his own evidence. 
The solicitors said too that the investigator had not engaged with Mr D in the same way as 
Shawbrook. Mr D is of course represented and so it would be usual for contact to be made 
through his solicitors. I am satisfied that Mr D has had a proper and fair opportunity to make 
his case and that I have been able to give proper consideration to his evidence and 
arguments.      
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr D to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman