The complaint
Mr B complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc failed to oversee his 
portfolio, provide regular reporting or offer proactive advice including regular meetings. He is 
also disappointed with the performance which he argues is due to the lack of active 
management.
What happened
St Jamess rejected his complaint, saying it had offered regular meetings, at least one of 
which Mr B failed to respond to and it provided online access to financial reporting. It 
recognised Mr B had lost confidence in his nominated advisor and had offered him the 
opportunity of a new advisor, but hed ignored this suggestion.
An investigator at this service agreed with St Jamess assessment, saying:
The terms and conditions form the basis of the relationship between Mr B and SJP
and hed not seen evidence showing it had not met these requirements
While Mr B complained that hed not been advised or asked to authorise any  changes
to his portfolio, he didnt believe this was surprising or inappropriate
SJP uses independent experts in the selection, monitoring and changing of
investments, which are made over a medium to long term basis and diversified
according to the risk level agreed
Its this type of service which Mr B agreed to when he joined SJP. As such, he
wouldnt expect SJP to be contacting Mr B regularly to authorise changes to the
portfolio
When Mr B asked the advisor questions, he provided answers in a timely manner
In Mr Bs complaint form hes stated that he would automatically 
get an annual review
Looking at the recommendation letter sent to Mr B on 9 January 2017 there are
various references to face-to-face meetings, but its not stated that these would be
yearly. Instead, it refers to regular reviews and updates, or as financial circumstances
dictate
SJP said it expects the partners to meet their clients on at least an annual basis,
subject to client agreement. But he felt the onus to arrange any face meeting wasnt
solely SJPs. If at any time Mr B wanted a face-to-face meeting he could have called
the advisor
A meeting took place in February 2018, around a year after Mr B started investing
with SJP. He was also offered meeting in April 2019 but declined one on this
occasion. Hed not seen any evidence of Mr B requesting meetings that havent
happened
Mr B said he didnt have a meeting when his nominated advisor changed roles.
However, he noted that JP sent him a letter, saying: You will shortly receive a
communication from M [the new advisor] with the view of setting up an
DRN-2350592appointment, when a more formal introduction from me can take place together with 
a background history of the Practice and his team.
 It would be unfortunate if Mr B didnt receive the follow up communication, but he 
couldve followed this up, and there was no evidence that he did. His original advisor 
was still contactable on his same contact details
SJP provides an online portal through which Mr B can access information about his 
investment. It also produces quarterly valuations and annual statements for the 
investment
As such, he was satisfied this is in line with what was agreed before Mr B invested 
with SJP
In December 2019 Mr B asked SJP to provide him with a list of fees and charges he 
had paid since joining SJP. In May 2020 Mr B told our service that he hadnt received 
this information but he, the investigator, had seen an email SJP sent to Mr B on 30 
January 2020 containing the information he requested. This was sent to his iCloud 
address
The longest Mr B had to wait for a reply to an email was one week and his questions 
were invariably answered properly
He asked Mr B to send him evidence of any emails that he hadnt received a 
response to, however none were supplied
Mr B asked to be compensated for stress caused whilst resolving the complaint, but 
he didnt believe this was appropriate given he received a written response within the 
required eight weeks
SJP offered to appoint another advisor although this didnt happen for four months; 
part of the delay being due to a genuine miscommunication
SJP had tried to call Mr B but didnt have his latest phone number as he hadnt kept it 
updated with his change in contact details
He didnt agree that his investments werent being overseen during this period, given 
how SJP manages investments, as described above
 SJP couldve done more to contact Mr B as it did have his email and postal address 
although it said it thought Mr B was on a career break and so might be travelling
That said, Mr B made no attempt to contact SJP about this hiatus
Mr B disagreed, and said:
The investigator claimed that he had not provided evidence of email exchanges 
between himself and SJP, but these were provided in full when he lodged the 
complaint
He is still none the wiser as to who is managing my portfolio (SJP or the new 
company his original advisor stated in his letter saying he was moving to another 
company); the stress this issue is causing is a real disappointment
He reiterated his other concerns
The investigator was satisfied that the email exchanges did not show that SJP had failed to 
respond to Mr Bs queries and that the documents hed requested had been supplied. Mr B 
said that, in particular, he hadnt received the 30 January breakdown of fees etc. but, having 
asked SJP for proof that this document had been sent, he was satisfied by SJPs 
subsequent evidence. Mr B maintained he had not received this email.
It was then agreed that Mr Bs complaint about the delay in appointing a new advisor should 
be dealt with via a bespoke complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, there is little I 
can add to his lengthy View where  in my opinion - he dealt with all of Mr Bs key complaint 
points.
Overall, I am satisfied that SJP met its commitments and that the failure to offer the missing 
face-to-face meeting was due to no longer having Mr Bs correct details. I do agree that it 
could have done more to try and contact Mr B but equally there was nothing preventing Mr B 
ringing his advisor if, at any time, he felt he wanted a discussion about his portfolio. The 
failure to appoint a new advisor more quickly will now be considered as a separate complaint 
so I will not comment on this.
I recognise that Mr B has been disappointed with the performance of his portfolio but I dont 
accept that there is any evidence that SJP mismanaged his investments. Poor performance 
(allegedly) is not a ground on which this service would normally uphold a complaint as we 
are not equipped or charged with investigating the relative success of individual investments.
Further, if, as appears, Mr B was seeking to invest for a medium to long term when he 
appointed SJP, it would not necessarily be appropriate to recommend regular investment 
switches, particularly during turbulent market conditions. So I dont agree that a failure to 
recommend such switches indicates SJP was not doing its job.
Crucially, if Mr B was unhappy with the performance of his portfolio, for whatever reason, he 
could have rung the advisor and asked for a meeting. In this context, I agree with the 
investigator that SJP did respond reasonably promptly to Mr Bs requests and I have seen 
no persuasive evidence to suggest it failed to respond to any requests for a meeting (or to 
discuss adjusting his portfolio).
If Mr B lost faith in SJP or his advisor, as often happens with many client/business 
relationships, it was for him to proactively raise these concerns at the time and decide 
whether he wished to stay with SJP/the advisor.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman