DRN-3744457
The complaint
Mr H complains that the cost of his motor insurance, underwritten by Zurich Insurance PLC 
(Zurich), increased when he changed his car and his address. References to Zurich include 
other organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr H had a pay per mile motor insurance policy underwritten by Zurich. This policy had a 
fixed premium and then a monthly miles premium which was an extra charge for each mile 
driven. Mr H says the per-mile price of his policy went up from 7p to 9.93p when he changed 
his car and moved house. Mr H wasnt happy about the increase and complained to Zurich. 
Zurich said the increase was due to the higher ratings placed on his new car and new 
address.
Mr H wasnt happy with Zurichs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He said Zurich had demonstrated that the increase in price of Mr 
Hs policy was in line with its pricing system, and the possibility of the change in cost was 
stipulated in his policy booklet.
Mr H wasnt happy with what the investigator said so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr H wants Zurich to reduce the price per mile on his policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role to tell Zurich how much to charge for its policies. My role is to decide whether 
or not Zurich treated Mr H fairly and reasonably, in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of his policy and in the same way it would treat other consumers.
Mr Hs insurance policy handbook said:
Please note: your per-mile rate and fixed premiums may change if you make any changes 
to the details of your policy at any point over the year.
This was highlighted in red.
The policy handbook also said:
You will need to let us know as soon as reasonably possible of any changesYour fixed 
premiums, per-mile rate and terms and conditions may change as a result of any new 
information that youve given us.
The list of changes included changes to the car and to the policyholders address.
Zurich told this service that the change in price was based on the rating of both the new car 
and the new address. The premium adjustment was based on the overall rating, which took 
into account a number of different factors such as instances of theft, rate of incidents, value 
of the car, how likely that type of car is to be involved in a claim and so on. The rating isnt 
just about the type of area, the type of car or the number of thefts. For example, a narrow 
road with parked cars or a road with speed bumps might give rise to more claims than a road 
where most cars are parked off road in garages or on driveways. 
Zurich said both the new car and the new address were rated higher than the old ones. 
Zurich has provided this service with evidence of how the changes affected the cost of Mr 
Hs policy. This information is commercially sensitive so I cant share it with Mr H, but Im 
satisfied that the increase in the cost of his policy was in line with the pricing structure Zurich 
would have used for other customers.
Im also satisfied that the price increase was in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs 
policy, and that the possibility of such a change was appropriately drawn to his attention. So 
I cant say that Zurich hasnt acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. So I wont be asking Zurich 
Insurance PLC to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman