DRN-3152497
The complaint
Mr D has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not downgrade his packaged 
account in July 2015, after it had accepted that itd been mis-sold to him.
Mr D would like a refund of the Insurance Aspects monthly fees hes been charged since 
July 2015.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and she did not think that HSBC had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having weighed everything up, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter. Ill explain why.
Mr D has said that as HSBC accepted that it had mis-sold him Plus and Advance packaged 
accounts, he says he thought that his account would be automatically downgraded to a fee-
free account. Mr D says that HSBC never told him that the Insurance Aspects package that 
was on his account at the time would remain active. So Mr D says that HSBC should refund 
him the account fees incurred since July 2015.
In July 2015, HSBCs final response letter explained that Mr Ds mis-sale complaint was 
upheld and set out how much it would pay Mr D in redress. But it also went on to explain that 
he still had an Insurance Aspects package actively running on his account. The letter invited 
Mr D to review whether he still needed the Insurance Aspects package. And it said that if he 
would like to remove it, he could call HSBC (and provided the number to call) or visit a local 
branch. The letter also explained that if he removed it, he could not then add it back on to his 
account at a later date. Therefore, I am satisfied that HSBC did tell Mr D that his Insurance 
Aspects package would remain running on his account and would do so until he instructed 
HSBC to remove it. 
I note that in his correspondence with our service, Mr D said hed assumed the Insurance 
Aspects package would be removed, because HSBC had found in his favour. But Ive not 
seen anything, either in Mr Ds testimony, or anything that HSBC has provided, that 
suggests HSBC had indicated to Mr D that the Insurance Aspects packaged would be 
automatically removed. Furthermore, I have not seen anything to suggest that Mr D did 
instruct HSBC to remove it from his account in 2015 either.
In addition to the above, I can see that HSBC sent Mr D an annual eligibility statement in 
February 2016, and every February since then. These explained that Mr D still had 
worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance provided by his 
account and invited him to check that they still met his needs. HSBC also sent an annual 
summary of charges (separately to the annual eligibility statements) to Mr D in February 
2016 and every year since then. These explained that Mr D was still paying a monthly fee for 
the Insurance Aspects package on his account. And the monthly fees wouldve appeared on 
Mr Ds bank statements too.
Given the above, I cant reasonably say that HSBC had hid the fact that Mr D still had the 
Insurance Aspects package operating on his account after July 2015.
So overall, I think that HSBC made it clear to Mr D that the Insurance Aspects package 
would remain on his account after his mis-selling complaint had been upheld. And Im 
satisfied that HSBC explained how Mr D could remove the package, should he wish to do 
so. Because of this, I dont think HSBC has acted unreasonably in this matter.
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed by this, as I can see he feels strongly about this 
matter. But ultimately, Ive not seen evidence that HSBC acted unfairly, unreasonably, or 
had misled Mr D in this matter. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate to require 
HSBC to refund the Insurance Aspects fees Mr D has paid since July 2015.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman