DRN-3201497
The complaint
Mr W (through a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to him 
irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks before lending to him. 
What happened
In total Mr W was given eight home collected loans between September 2017 and 
November 2019. Ive included some of the information this Service has received from STF 
about the lending in the table below: 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repaymentsweekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 07/09/2017 24/11/2017 10 £15.00
2 £150.00 07/12/2017 01/02/2018 10 £22.50
3 £300.00 01/02/2018 25/05/2018 16 £30.00
4 £250.00 13/06/2018 28/09/2018 16 £25.00
5 £100.00 08/08/2018 12/01/2019 23 £7.50
6 £250.00 17/10/2018 18/01/2019 16 £25.00
7 £200.00 12/01/2019 28/06/2019 24 £20.00
8 £350.00 14/08/2019 29/11/2019 16 £35.00
Following Mr Ws letter of complaint, STF issued its final response letter on 19 February 
2021. It explained Mr W had been advanced eight loans, but it hadnt done anything wrong 
by doing so. 
STF explained it had carried out proportionate checks, the credit file information it received 
didnt indicate any wider problems and Mr W didnt show any other signs of financial 
difficulties. 
Unhappy, with this response, Mr Ws representative, referred the complaint to this Service. 
The case was then looked at by one of our adjudicators. She concluded, that STFs decision 
to advance loans 1 -3 was reasonable. Although, she also didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint 
about loans 4 and 5, she did conclude that STFs checks likely didnt go far enough but she 
couldnt say what further checks may have shown it.
However, the adjudicator did uphold Mr Ws complaint about loans 6  8 because in her view 
the overall pattern of lending was now harmful for Mr W and so these loans ought to not 
have been provided to him. 
Mr W didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings. 
STF didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response it said;
It doesnt believe it did anything wrong with the way it dealt with Mr W. 
STF adhered to all relevant guidelines, regulations and its own procedures when it 
lent to Mr W. 
From November 2018 STF had the ability to accept and keep copies of any 
supporting evidence, such as bank statements, wage slips or bills.
There is a seven-week break after loan seven being repaid and when loan eight was 
advanced, which STF says is significant and shows Mr W wasnt reliant on this form 
of credit. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
There doesnt appear to be any ongoing disagreement about the outcome the adjudicator 
reached for loans 1  5. So, I no longer think these loans are in dispute, so I wont be making 
a finding on them. But what I would add, is that I dont disagree with what the adjudicator 
said about these loans.  
Instead, this decision will focus on what happened when loans 6  8 were advanced. But Ive 
kept in mind loans 1- 5 as they do form part of Mr Ws lending history with STF. 
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could
repay his loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include: 
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.When these loans were approved, STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 8 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. But, STF has been able to provide this Service with a copy of 
Mr Ws application forms. These application forms include details about the income and 
expenditure he declared.
I would say, that based on the details in the application form and the later income and 
expenditure assessments, that STF couldve reasonably concluded that Mr W would be in a 
position to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
But Id be inclined to think, like the adjudicator that from loan 6, STFs checks really needed 
to go further. He was coming back for further lending, after being indebted for more than a 
year, and loan 6 was one of his largest loans to date. 
At this point in the lending relationship, I think STF ought to have been verifying Mr Ws 
income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of his actual 
financial position. I dont think it did this level of checks for these loans. 
STF says for loans after November 2018 (so loans 7 and 8) it had the ability to record and 
keep information and evidence that it collected at the time. However, STF hasnt provided 
this Service, with any of the additional information it may have collected. So, I dont know 
what, if any, additional information it may have taken or reviewed when these final two loans 
were advanced. 
But in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mr W, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Mr W. Having looked at the overall pattern of STFs 
lending history with Mr W, I agree with our adjudicator that STF should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided 
loan 6. I say this because;
At this point STF ought to have realised Mr W was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. This was now the sixth loan in just over a year and Mr W had been 
indebted to STF for almost the entire time. Loan 6 was also one of Mr Ws largest 
loan to date. 
So STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr W was having to borrow 
further to cover an ongoing need and his indebtedness was increasingly 
unsustainably. It also seems that Mr Ws loan history up until this point clearly 
indicated that his underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving, given his 
loan amounts were generally increasing. 
Mr W had developed a pattern of taking new loans around the same time previous 
ones were repaid, for example, loan 2 and at times Mr W had more than one loan 
running at the same time. This pattern continued within the lending relationship. So, 
STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr W, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a longer-term financial need. To me, this is also indicative 
of his indebtedness not being sustainable.
The number of weekly repayments that Mr W was due to pay STF had started to 
increase so by loan 6, Mr W was now paying STF £32.50 per week, compared to £15 
a week when the relationship started. 
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed STF. Loan 8 was taken 
out just under two years after loan 1. And loan 8 for more than three times his first, it 
was also one of his largest loans to date.  Mr W had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service a debt to STF over an extended period of time.
In response to the adjudicators assessment, STF has raised the issue of the seven-week 
gap between loans 7 and 8. It says, this gap ought to be enough, to show that Mr W was no 
longer reliant on these loans. 
I can see a situation where a gap of seven weeks could be sufficient to say that a consumer 
was no longer reliant on this sort of lending. But in this case, I disagree with STFs view on 
this. 
I say this because when Mr W returned for further funds, he borrowed a larger sum, over a 
short term which meant his weekly repayments were significantly more. In addition, Mr W 
had been indebted to STF almost continuously for nearly two years. So, I dont think, in the 
individual circumstances of this case, that the break of seven weeks is sufficient to say that 
Mr W was no longer reliant on these loans. 
I think that Mr W lost out when STF provided loans 6 - 8 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and the time in debt was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 - 8 and Ill go on to set out
what STF should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W from loan 6 as I think it ought to. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there and 
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between 
him and STF which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, he may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Mr W loans 6  8.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything LAH have already refunded.
B) It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing for loans 6 - 8 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from Mr 
Ws credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr W 
a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman