DRN-3756336
The complaint
Ms S complains about that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) sent her a formal 
demand letter before the end of a 30-day payment holiday period. She would like her 
account to be put back to the position it was before this issue arose, her credit file amended 
and have compensated her for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
NatWest accepts it made a mistake. Its policy is to grant a maximum of two payment 
holidays with any 12-month period so it shouldnt have granted a third payment 
holiday. It also sent Ms S a formal demand letter prior to the third payment holiday 
ending. As a result, if offered £100 compensation. It has agreed with our 
investigators recommendation of extra £100 compensation. I dont doubt the 
distress to Ms S in getting a formal demand notice prior to the end of the third 
payment holiday. I think the total of £200 compensation is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate Ms Ss concern about a default on her credit file. But I cant agree its the 
right thing to do to put her account back in the position in it was prior to the third 
payment holiday being agreed, albeit wrongly. Its clear from the information I have 
seen that Ms S couldnt meet her loan obligations prior to the third payment holiday 
being agreed and her financial position doesnt seem to change towards the end of 
that arrangement. As I understand it her account defaulted as she couldnt make 
payments or pay off the balance on her loan and that was the position prior to the 
third payment holiday being agreed. I think the account would have defaulted even if 
the third payment holiday hadnt been agreed  that action just delayed any default. 
its important that credit files accurate reflect account history so I cant reasonably 
ask NatWest to amend her credit file to remove any default. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NatWest has agreed a fair offer.
In full and final settlement, National Westminster Bank Plc  should pay Ms S a total of £200 
compensation  if it has not done so already. This comprises the £100 initially offered, and the 
additional £100 our investigator recommended. 
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman