DRN-2444085
The complaint
Ms v complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc (BOI) were responsible for the delays that 
occurred, following a large online payment made from her Post Office Online Saver account 
with them. 
What happened
Ms v held an online Post Office Online Saver account (POS) with BOI. In April 2020 Ms v 
says she made a substantial online payment to her linked account with another bank. Ms v 
says this payment didnt arrive to her linked bank account and BOI were slow to trace the 
whereabouts of the payment causing her anxiety and stress. Ms v says BOI could have done 
more when the payment went missing and wants it to reimburse her the interest lost for the 
time it took to trace the payment and compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
BOI says the reason the payment failed to arrive to the linked account was because it was 
rejected by the recipient bank as the beneficiary bank account name differed. BOI says Ms v 
changed the linked bank account details to that of a third party and this was outside the 
terms and conditions of the POS terms for linked bank account, as this must be in the same 
name as the account holder. As a result, the payment was sent to the recipient bank in her 
name and not that of the recipient account name and as a result was rejected by the 
recipient bank creating the delays here. 
Ms v says BOI didnt respond to her complaint in a timely manner and referred the matter to 
this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint, he felt 
BOI had made it clear that any bank account linked to her POS would need to be in the 
same name and this was the reason why the payment was rejected and caused the delay 
here. The investigator felt BOI had acted reasonably when they were informed the payment 
hadnt arrived at the beneficiary bank and the payment was eventually made some days 
later. He also felt that while a payment for a lower amount had been made from Ms vs POS 
and accepted by the beneficiary bank, this wasnt something he could hold BOI responsible. 
The investigator says this service couldnt comment on the way in which Ms vs complaint 
was handled as thats not something we could consider. 
Ms v wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been stressful and worrying for Ms v to not know what had 
happened to a large payment made from her POS and why it hadnt reached its destination 
bank account. When looking at this complaint I have considered if BOI were at fault when 
the large payment she made from her POS, didnt arrive at the beneficiary account, and if 
they could have done more when this was made known to them by Ms v.
I have been made aware of a separate complaint bought to this service by Ms vs 
representative in this case, the beneficiary of the payment, but I will not be looking at this, as 
each case is considered separately by this service and our decisions on each case are 
based its individual merits. Furthermore, I wont consider the issue of how BOI processed 
her complaint as this is not something this service can consider, but I will look into the 
actions it took when dealing with the missing payment.
What happened here was Ms v made a large payment to her linked account using her POS. 
From the information provided to this service I can see that Ms v amended the details of her 
linked account in late December 2019 and changed the linked account details to her 
representatives sole bank account - the bank account to where the large payment was 
eventually sent.  
It is important to say that under the terms and conditions of the POS, provided to this 
service, and when changing/editing any linked account details online, it become clear, the 
linked account must be in the name same name as the account holder, it says: 
You must register a Linked Account for the purposes of making withdrawals from the 
Account. Only one Linked Account can be registered for each Account. The Linked Account 
must be in the same name(s) as the Account Holder(s) for the payment of interest and / or 
credit transfers.
I have also seen screen shots provided by BOI that showed when Ms v amended the linked 
account online, at the end of December 2019, it would have displayed a message before 
allowing her to edit the linked account, saying:  Your linked account must be a UK 
bank/building society account in your name. Taking this into account I cant say that Ms v 
wouldnt be aware that the linked account needed to be in her name. This is important as 
this would mean any payments from her POS to the linked account, would be sent using her 
name as the beneficiary. I am satisfied this is what happened here as the recipient bank 
rejected the payment because the payee on the payment wasnt in the same name as their 
account holder. 
It follows, I cant see that the recipient bank refusing the payment was incorrect, neither 
would the actions it took be BOIs responsibility. 
Ms v says she made a payment the previous day for a lower amount, with identical payment 
instructions to her linked account and this payment arrived without issue. While I understand 
the point Ms v makes here, I cant see that BOI can be held responsible for the recipient 
bank accepting the payment for a lower amount. What is important to say, is BOI sent the 
payment to the linked account with Ms Vs name as beneficiary as I would have expected, 
given the name of that linked account, under their terms and conditions, needed to be in her 
name. As Ms v would have been aware the linked account needed to be in her name, I cant 
see that BOI are at fault here for the payment being rejected.
Ms v has also raised the issue that BOI systems are not up to date and they should check 
outward payments for confirmation of payees and have been directed to do so. While Ms v 
may not agree, although the Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) issued a directive on this, 
they extended its implementation to 30 June 2020, and in any event, this directive was to the 
six largest UK Banking Groups which didnt include BOI. So, while Ms v may feel BOI 
systems are backward that isnt something I can tell BOI to change as this would be something for the regulators to consider. 
Ms v also felt the service provided during this time wasnt dealt with adequately by either 
bank and she made a number of calls to check the whereabouts of this payment. I can 
understand how worrying this would have been for Ms v, but from the comments detailed in 
system notes provided to this service, I am satisfied, BOI did take this seriously and acted 
swiftly to chase the recipient bank for the funds. Its worth saying that BOI were reliant on the 
recipient bank for the return of the payment and therefore this wasnt wholly under their 
control. From the information provided to this service BOI set up a trace for the payment on 
the same day they were informed it hadnt arrived and it then took a further five working 
days for the funds to be returned to them. During this time Ms v continued to call for 
updates, but thats not to say BOI werent doing what they could to get the monies returned, 
although I can see this would have been upsetting for Ms v, wondering where the payment 
was.
I dont feel I can penalise BOI for the time it took to get the monies back from the recipient 
bank and there is nothing I have seen to suggest they didnt try to help Ms v to recover the 
payment within a reasonable time frame. I can see, when BOI were informed the monies 
were on the way back to them, from the recipient bank, they made a phone call to Ms V and 
took instructions for its new destination bank account. This was acted upon within 24 hours 
of the funds arriving. 
I am satisfied BOI did take reasonable steps to trace the payment that had been rejected by 
the recipient bank, for the reasons I have given. 
It follows while Ms v will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of BOI 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms v to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman