DRN-4278426
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about a second charge mortgage she had with Central Trust Limited. 
She believes she should not have been approved for the mortgage as she was unemployed 
at the time with a poor credit rating. As such, she wants evidence of the checks completed to 
verify her being worthy of such a loan.
What happened
Miss M had an existing mortgage on her home in 2019. She wanted to borrow another 
£15,000 to repay an existing debt, complete necessary repairs to the roof of her home and 
install a new bathroom. Miss M sought assistance from a credit broker in March 2019 to 
make the arrangements. The broker assessed Miss Ms situation and recommended a 
mortgage with Central Trust. An application was made at the end of March 2019. The 
application detailed that Miss M was employed and copies of her most recent payslips were 
attached to the application, along with bank statements and a credit search the broker had 
obtained the day before. 
Miss M has said she became unemployed in April 2019, after the application was made, but 
before the mortgage was advanced. However, it was not until December 2019 that Miss M 
told Central Trust that she was unemployed.
During the process of Central Trust assessing Miss Ms application, some further information 
was requested. This was provided, along with confirmation on 18 April 2019 that her 
circumstances had not changed. Central Trust went on to consider the information provided 
and assess whether the loan was affordable. It concluded it was.
In addition, on 26 April 2019, just before the final decision to accept the application was 
made by Central Trust, it called Miss M. It asked her some questions, including details of her 
employment. She confirmed she was employed in a permanent role and had no knowledge 
of impending redundancy or a drop in income. 
The application was accepted, and a mortgage offer issued on 29 April 2019. The following 
day Central Trust called Miss M again and went through the offer with her, to ensure she 
understood it. It also checked there hadnt been any changes in her circumstances. Miss M 
didnt inform Central Trust of any changes in her circumstances. The mortgage offer was 
accepted by Miss M and the advance was paid on 15 May 2019.
In 2022 Miss M complained to the broker that, among other issues, the mortgage had been 
mis-sold. She didnt think the application should have been accepted because she was 
unemployed and had bad credit. She also said that she didnt think appropriate checks had 
been completed prior to the mortgage completing.
The broker highlighted that the decision to lend was made by Central Trust. Following the 
broker complaint being referred to us, Miss M confirmed she wanted to complain about the 
lending decision made by Central Trust. As such, we informed it about the complaint, and it 
responded direct to Miss M. It didnt uphold the complaint.
As Miss M wasnt satisfied with Central Trusts response, one of our Investigators looked into 
the complaint. He didnt recommend it was upheld.
Miss M didnt accept the Investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be looked 
at again. She said that she questioned the employment that was recorded on the brokers 
documentation from the time of the sale and asked what steps were in place to verify the 
legitimacy of employment documents. She suggested that contact should have been made 
with the employer detailed in the payslips provided to ensure that she was employed by it. 
The Investigator responded further to Miss Ms concerns about the checks completed at the 
time of the sale, but her comments didnt change his conclusions. Miss M asked for a 
second opinion and so it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an 
Ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has told us she was unemployed at the time the mortgage was advanced. That may 
be the case, but I am satisfied that she didnt make Central Trust aware of that fact until 
more than six months after the mortgage was advanced. I note that Miss M believes that the 
broker and Central Trust should have made checks with the employer to ensure that she had 
told the truth about her employment. However, I dont consider that was necessary. A broker 
and lender are entitled to rely on the information a potential borrower gives it. Indeed, it 
would be inappropriate for a broker or lender to assume its customer was lying without good 
cause. 
In addition, the broker and Central Trust checked on three occasions between the 
application and the advance being made, whether there had been any changes to Miss Ms 
circumstances. She didnt tell either party there had been a change. While I note there was a 
period of a couple of weeks between the offer being issued and the advance paid, but 
Miss M had been asked by the broker to ensure that she told it about any changes that 
happened going forward. I dont consider Central Trust can be found at fault for not being 
aware that Miss Ms circumstances had changed by the time the advance was paid.
In relation to the affordability of the mortgage, Central Trust was under a duty to lend 
responsibly. In order to do so, it had to carry out an assessment of affordability in line with 
the Regulators Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB). 
I have looked carefully at the assessment Central Trust carried out before it approved the 
loan. It took account of Miss Ms verified net income, her committed expenditure and basic 
essential cost-of-living outgoings. Central Trust based its cost-of-living figures on Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) data on minimum costs. After taking that and Miss Ms committed 
expenditure into account, there was disposable income of just under £300 a month. I 
consider it was reasonable for the lender to consider that this was sufficient disposable 
income for her to live on, bearing in mind it had already deducted food, clothing and 
socialising costs. Miss M might spend more than the minimum ONS figures, but I think it was 
reasonable for Central Trust to consider that the disposable income gave her a cushion. 
There was no requirement for the Central Trust to carry out an interest rate stress test as the 
interest rate on the loan was fixed for five years. However, Central Trust carried out such a 
test on the existing mortgage and based on the information it had, it showed that the loan 
was still affordable. Overall, I consider it was reasonable for Central Trust to consider the 
lending was affordable and to lend Miss M the amount it did based on the information it had at the time of sale. Nor were there any recent issues with Miss Ms circumstances or 
finances that would have indicated to Central Trust that it was not reasonable for it to lend to 
her.
Miss M told Central Trust that she wanted to obtain further funds to repay a debt, complete 
essential repairs on her home and renovate her bathroom. These requirements wouldnt 
have raised any concerns with Central Trust. That linked with the fact Miss M didnt have 
current or very recent financial difficulties, and the mortgage was affordable, doesnt indicate 
Central Trust should have had any concerns about agreeing the mortgage. I cant find the 
decision to lend to Miss M was inappropriate or that the mortgage was unaffordable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 
7 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman