DRN-3362970
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt allow two cheques Mr R had 
written to be honoured when they were genuine. This resulted in inconvenience and 
unnecessary delays in the transfer of the funds. 
This is a complaint brought by both Mr and Mrs R as the account in question is held jointly 
by them. But some of the actions have been taken by Mr R only. When this is the case I 
have referred only to him.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R wanted to transfer £50,000 from an account they jointly held with HSBC to a 
building society.
On 11 November 2021 Mr R wrote a cheque for £50,000, payable to himself, and presented 
this to the building society. But when it was checked by HSBC it was returned unpaid as 
there was no year written on the date section of the cheque. HSBC wrote to Mr R to tell him 
the cheque had been returned unpaid, and explained it was because he had not completed 
the year in the date section. 
On 18 November 2021 Mr R presented a replacement cheque to the building society, but 
this was also stopped as the signature didnt match the authorised signatures on the 
account. HSBC said it tried to contact Mr R to verify the authenticity of the cheque, but as it 
was unable to speak to him the cheque was returned unpaid. HSBC wrote to Mr R 
explaining what had happened.
Mr R complained to HSBC that the cheques had been returned unpaid when they both 
shouldve been honoured. But HSBC didnt uphold his complaint. It said both cheques 
werent signed in accordance with the mandate information it held for his account, so the 
decisions not to pay the cheques were part of its ongoing measures to protect against fraud.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs R complained to our service, saying theyd been a 
customer of HSBC for over 60 years, and the unpaid cheques had caused delays to the 
transfer, and Mr R had been inconvenienced in having to make repeated trips to the branch. 
Hed like £600 compensation to recognise the impact of HSBCs handling of things.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong, so didnt uphold Mr & Mrs Rs 
complaint. He thought HSBC had been reasonable in returning the first cheque, as Mr R 
hadnt written the year in the date section, so HSBC were unable to say it was valid, and the 
signatures on both cheques didnt seem to match those HSBC held on record for the 
account. And he thought HSBC had been fair as it had tried to call Mr R on both his work 
and home number to try and verify the authenticity of the second cheque. But it hadnt been 
able to speak to him. So our investigator thought that given the date was incomplete on the 
first, and the signature didnt match on the second, HSBC hadnt acted unfairly in its decision 
not to process the cheques. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Mr R said that he needed £600 in compensation for loss of 
earnings, when he had to spend time away from his business to sort out the problems.
Our investigator explained that as he didnt think HSBC had made an error, he wouldnt ask 
it to pay any compensation. And he sent images of the two cheques to Mr R to show the 
incomplete date and the signatures. But Mr R didnt accept this. He said that it couldnt have 
been fraud as both accounts were in the same name and he was paying himself when 
writing the cheques. And, as far as hes concerned, someone shouldve seen the very 
obvious similarities in the signatures. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been brought to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge Mr and Mrs Rs frustration that two genuine cheques were 
returned unpaid, and this resulted in spending time trying to sort it out. But in my decision, 
whilst recognising that the cheques were indeed genuine, I have had to decide if HSBC has 
treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly by returning them. And I dont think it has. I think HSBC has 
taken the action it considered necessary to protect itself and Mr and Mrs R from potential 
fraud, and Im satisfied this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
With regards to the first cheque, I can see that when completing it, Mr R hasnt written the 
year when entering the date. Although this can seem to be a trivial point, a cheque is only 
valid for six months, so it is essential that the year is entered to ensure it is still valid to be 
encashed and so can be honoured. So HSBC were reasonable in its decision not to honour 
it, and it wrote to Mr R explaining this. So Im satisfied it was fair here.
But with the second cheque, because of its value it was, like the first, subjected to additional 
verification checks. And the signature on it was deemed to not be sufficiently similar to those 
registered on the account to allow it to be encashed without further verification. So HSBC 
tried to speak to Mr R on both his work and home numbers but was unable to get through. I 
understand Mr R has said hes got no record of these calls, but Ive seen contact notes from 
HSBC on which its recorded that calls were made to both his home and work numbers. So 
on balance, I think it more likely than not that the calls were made.
And whilst I understand Mr Rs frustration and his assertion that the signatures are 
sufficiently close, I think that HSBC were acting correctly in its desire to minimise the risk of 
fraud, and were fair in subjecting the cheque to additional security measures. And in trying to 
verify the authenticity of the second cheque by ringing Mr R, it was taking fair and 
reasonable steps.
As a result of all of the above, I do not uphold this complaint 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 Chris Riggs
Ombudsman