DRN-3811163
The complaint
Mr W complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs lack of professionalism when communicating with 
him.
 
What happened
Mr W complained to Lloyds because he felt it was unprofessional that he was addressed by 
his first name when using his online banking and chat facilities. 
Lloyds responded to say their online banking had the option to change how his name was 
displayed but their chat was designed to be informal, so while theyd taken onboard Mr Ws 
feedback  there were no plans to change how their chat service addresses customers. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator considered his concerns. He 
said, in summary, he didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr W unfairly as, although they had 
addressed him by his first name, they were still polite and respectful.
 
Mr W didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he felt large corporations should 
address their customers formally, that it was basic manners to do so and he addresses his 
own clients formally. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says he doesnt like being addressed by his first name and this can affect his mental 
well-being. Im sorry to hear Mr W finds the use of his first name in this kind of situation so 
distressing. 
Lloyds have explained to Mr W how to update his online banking and marketing preferences 
so that hes addressed as Mr W in those. However, theyve said their online chat function is 
designed to be informal and so uses customers first names to reflect that. 
Its up to Lloyds to decide how their online banking and chat services work and I have no 
power to direct them to change this. So, I dont think its unreasonable that Lloyds has 
addressed Mr W by his first name in the circumstances of this complaint. Lloyds have 
explained to Mr W how he can change his online banking preferences if he wishes. So I 
think theyve treated him fairly. 
I know Mr W wont agree, but Im not persuaded that it was unprofessional or discourteous 
for Lloyds to address him by his first name in the communications theyve had with him  
and Ive not seen anything to suggest they did so to cause Mr W distress.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman