DRN-3009009
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs G are unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined their claim under their 
buildings and contents insurance following a burglary at their home. The policy is in joint 
names but because Mr B dealt with the claim, and for ease, Ill refer only to him throughout 
my decision.
What happened
Mr B returned home to find his home had been burgled. The police attended the same 
evening and again the following day. Mr B made a claim under his home insurance, which 
QIC investigated and, at first, appeared to accept. It offered a settlement figure to Mr B for 
the theft of items and the damage to his home, but he didnt think it was enough.
QIC then declined Mr Bs claim because neither its investigator nor the police reported any 
evidence of damage showing where the burglar gained entry. When Mr B complained, QIC 
apologised for offering to settle the claim when it wasn't covered under the policy, and it 
offered £200 for its mistake. Mr B didnt accept the offer and asked it to settle his claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint because she thought QIC had declined his 
claim fairly, for the reasons it gave and in line with the terms of the policy. Our investigator 
agreed it had made a mistake offering to settle and she thought QICs offer of £200 by way 
of apology was reasonable. Further, our investigator noted that QICs agent hadnt returned 
Mr Bs iPad to him after inspecting it for damage, so she said it should do so now.
Mr B didnt agree with the outcome but he had nothing further to add. The complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Firstly, I can only sympathise with Mr B and his family and the position they are now in. I 
realise it mustve been distressing to find his home had been burgled and damaged, and 
then finding his claim wasn't covered would likely have added to his distress. Mr B has given 
some details about his personal circumstances and I can see why he wouldve found this 
matter so upsetting. But I cant reasonably hold QIC responsible for the upset the burglary 
itself caused.
QIC declined Mr Bs claim because force and violence werent used to gain entry to his 
home. His policy provides cover for theft under both buildings and contents as follows:
We will cover loss or damage:
i. Caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to your home; or
ii. Where deception has been used to gain entry to your home
Ive looked at QICs investigation report and that of the police who attended on the day of the 
theft. Neither report says entry was gained using violence and the reports specifically state 
that there was no evidence of damage around any possible entry point. While force can be 
described as turning a handle and there might not be evidence, violence should be evident 
from damage caused when forcing entry to a locked home. The photos take at the time dont 
show any damage which might be attributed to anything other than general wear and tear.
So, I think it was fair that QIC declined the claim under the forced and violent entry 
exclusion.
Theres been some question about whether entry was gained through a side door, which 
was later seen to be ajar and had the key in the lock. However, the policy says:
We may require you to have minimum security precautions in place. Please check your 
schedule for any specific endorsement.
The schedule sets out the following endorsement:
Theft and malicious damage excluded if security requirement not met
When:
1. there is nobody in your home; or
2. the residents have gone to bed for the night in the main building:
you must:
a. remove keys from all locks and keep them out of sight or reach of a potential intruder; 
and
b. ensure that the locks declared in your insurance application are put into full and 
effective use.
We will not pay for loss or damage caused by any theft, attempted theftor malicious 
actsunless you meet both requirements (a) and (b).
The policy goes on to confirm the following:
11. Reasonable care and preventing loss
i) You must take all necessary and reasonable steps to prevent or limitloss or damage to 
your buildings and contents
iv) If any security measures are installed to protect the buildings (for example, window 
locks), you must use these whenever the buildings are left unattended
Ifwe decide the losswas caused or made worse by you failing to meet your obligations 
under this clause, we may refuse to pay the claim
I think the terms of the policy and the endorsement set out in the schedule are clear. If the 
home is not fully secured, QIC may not pay the claim. Here, as theres no evidence of violent 
entry, it seems likely that keys were used to enter Mr Bs home. There was a key in the door 
when the police attended, and Mr B confirmed that some keys were stolen, so its 
reasonable to say the keys werent out of sight or view. Therefore, Im satisfied that it was 
fair for QIC to rely on the security endorsement to decline Mr Bs claim.
I understand QIC offered to settle Mr Bs claim before it went on to decline it. QIC agrees 
that was a mistake and that it mightve caused Mr B some upset. By way of apology, QIC 
offered him £200. I understand he rejected the offer, but I think it was fair in the 
circumstances. Thats because I wouldnt expect QIC to settle a claim which isnt covered 
under the policy just because it made a mistake. I wont be asking QIC to pay any more than 
the £200 it has already offered.Finally, more recently, Mr B mentioned that QIC hadnt returned his iPad. When we asked, 
QIC said it didnt receive it but the online conversation between Mr B and QIC shows that it 
did. Its not part of Mr Bs original complaint to QIC but it does form part of this claim, so it 
wont be covered under the policy. But its reasonable that QIC should return it to Mr B and 
my decision is based on the assumption that it will do so.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Bs situation, Im satisfied that QIC fairly declined his 
claim under the policy because there was no evidence of forced and violent entry.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman