DRN-4178061
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with how Fortegra Europe Insurance Company are handling her claim on 
her contents insurance. 
What happened
Ms P has a contents insurance policy underwritten by Fortegra. 
She made a claim for damage to her sofa in September 2022. Fortega said one of their 
agents attempted to attend Ms Ps home to carry out repairs, but they couldnt find adequate 
parking, so the repairs couldnt be done as planned.
Fortega said Ms P needs to provide adequate parking in order for their technician to attend. 
The technician needs to park a reasonable distance from a customers property so they can 
transport their equipment safely in order to carry out the repairs
Ms P feels the parking is a cost that should be covered by her premiums. Fortega explained 
these extra costs arent included in cover, and their terms state Ms P will have to pay any 
costs not covered by the policy. They confirmed that until parking was made available, they 
wouldnt be able to look at the damage.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said she thought it was reasonable for 
Fortega to ask Ms P to provide a parking permit for their technician to visit the property. But 
as Ms P wasnt happy to do this, she thought it was reasonable for Fortega to offer a cash 
settlement. 
Fortega said they had offered Ms P the option to arrange a permit or a cash alternative 
settlement of £50.00 which is the value of the technicians call out fee. They explained it 
would be difficult to advise how much it would cost to repair the damage without the report 
back from the technician, which they are unable to obtain without access to parking. 
Our investigator checked if it was possible to do a desktop valuation/estimate for Ms P's 
claim without physically inspecting the item as they already had photos of the damaged sofa. 
Fortega explained that they felt £50 covered the average rate for one hour clean. In this case 
as theyve been unable to attend and assess the extent of the staining, theyre unable to 
determine exactly how long the clean will take.
Our investigator issued a follow up opinion explaining that she felt Fortegas offer of £50 was 
fair as she agreed it would be difficult for them to assess the extent of the stains and 
damage without the technician visiting Ms Ps home. And she was satisfied £50 for an hour 
of cleaning was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms P didnt think this was fair. In summary she said: 
She would be under-compensated if was covering the parking charge.
Shes paid in full for a service of cleaning or changing any parts needed  this should 
include all discrepancies such as the parking charges. 
Parking is available for the technician. 
£50 compensation for one hour of labour would not cover the materials and products 
for the cleaning or the potential pieces of furniture that may need to be changed. Or 
the potential time taken in labour from a third party.
If Fortega wont cover the parking costs, she should be refunded for the service she 
has been paying for. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Fortega has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms of Ms Ps policy say that where repairs cant be achieved, Fortega can settle the 
claim by cash payment. 
Fortegas notes suggest that Ms P said the technician could park for free about 20 min walk 
away. But I dont think this is reasonable with the equipment its likely is needed for this type 
of service. Fortega checked the cost for parking outside the property and it was £14 for a 
permit for the day. I appreciate this is expensive, but I cant hold Fortega responsible for that. 
And I dont think its fair for them to cover the cost. 
I say that because, although the policy doesn't specify that a customer needs to provide and 
pay for parking, it does say: 
"you will have to pay any costs not covered by this policy". 
And it also states customers arent covered for: 
 "any other costs indirectly caused by the event which led to your claim, unless specifically 
stated in this policy". 
I appreciate Ms P feels the premium shes paid for the service should cover this extra cost, 
but I dont agree thats fair. I think parking is an additional cost and its reasonable for 
Fortegra to rely on the terms of the policy here - they are clear that any specific cost that isn't 
outlined in the policy needs to be covered by the policyholder. So, I dont think Fortega are 
liable for parking costs. 
I understand Ms P doesn't feel she should accept £50 if she has to spend further money for 
a third party to complete the repairs. But I dont have any evidence to support why the offer 
should be increased. Ms P has said the stains were made from pen, dirt and food. And I 
havent seen any evidence, such as a quote from a third party, to suggest why £50 wouldnt 
be enough to cover the cleaning costs to remove these fairly common stains.  
Its possible that if Fortega could attend Ms Ps home, they would be able to consider a more 
accurate settlement. But as Ms P has been clear that she isnt going to pay for a parking 
permit, this no longer seems to be a viable option. In the absence of any adequate parking being available, I think Fortega have made a 
reasonable offer to bring the matter to a close. £50 is a fair settlement based on the 
information they have. So I won't be asking them to pay for parking or issuing any refund. 
Putting things right
Fortegra Europe Insurance Company has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the 
complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances, so I direct this amount to be paid 
to Ms P.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and direct Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company to put things right by paying Ms P £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman