DRN-4408288
The complaint
Mr A and Ms A complain about how AWP P&C SA handled their travel insurance claim and 
its poor service. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mr A and Ms A had travel insurance through a bank account. AWP is the insurer. They had 
to cancel their holiday due to Mr A being unwell. On 5 January 2023 they made a claim on 
their insurance. Mr A and Ms A say they provided all the documents AWP requested 
including a GPs letter confirming Mr As hospital admission and a cancellation invoice.
On 9 January 2023 AWP wrote to Mr A and Ms A saying they would receive payment of 
£6,377 to settle their travel claim within 5 to 10 working days. That time passed without Mr A 
and Ms A receiving payment so on 24 January they emailed AWP asking when payment 
would be made.
On 27 January AWP emailed saying it needed a medical certificate completed by Mr As GP 
and the original booking invoice for the trip before it was able to authorise payment in full. 
Further communication from AWP told Mr A and Ms A that its 9 January letter hadnt been 
checked by a senior member of its staff and was sent in error.
On 13 February 2023 Mr A and Ms A complained to AWP. They chased for a response 
several times. On 4 May 2023 AWP responded and apologised for its error but said it still 
needed the further information to assess the claim.
Mr A and Ms A complained do us. In summary they said:
AWP should pay their travel claim without the additional information as AWP said in 
writing that it would pay and the letter should be binding.
If AWP had requested the further information it wanted before the letter saying it 
would pay they would have sent the information. But now they shouldnt have to go 
out of their way, contacting Mr As GP and waiting weeks for the response, because 
AWP made a mistake with its own internal procedures. 
AWP didnt respond to their complaint within 8 weeks as required, it took 11 weeks 
despite them chasing, which was unprofessional and poor service.
They want compensation for their stress, inconvenience and wasted time AWPs 
error has caused. Also theyd booked a holiday expecting to receive the claim money 
which they wouldnt have done if theyd known AWP wasnt going to pay. They were 
now £6,377 worse off which has caused them to struggle financially.
Our investigator recommended AWP should pay Mr A and Ms A £150 compensation to 
recognise the inconvenience and upset the error and poor service had caused. But she said 
if Mr A and Ms A wanted to pursue their claim they would need to provide the outstanding 
documents to AWP to assess so it could decide the claim.
AWP accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr A and Ms A disagree and want an 
ombudmans decision. They said the fact that AWP had put in writing that it would pay the 
claim had been overlooked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mr A and Ms A have made but I wont address all their points in 
my findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which 
I think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
As I dont think AWP has to pay the claim on the current evidence it has but does have to 
pay Mr A and Ms A compensation I partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
AWP made a mistake, due to its internal error, when it sent its 9 January letter to Mr A and 
Ms A saying it would pay the claim when it didnt have all information it needed to assess the 
claim. AWP apologised for the error but I understand Mr A and Ms A feel very strongly that 
AWP should pay the claim because it said it would.
However, I dont think it would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to both parties if I said 
that AWP must pay the claim without being able to assess the outstanding information 
because in error it sent a letter saying it would make payment. 
Its the responsibility of Mr A and Ms A to show they have a valid claim. The policy says that 
in making a claim Mr A and Ms A need to provide As much evidence as possible to support 
your claim and AWP is entitled to ask for information it needs to validate a claim.
I think AWP reasonably want to see an original booking invoice for the cancelled holiday and 
in particular a completed medical certificate from the GP as the cancellation claim was 
caused by a medical issue. So if Mr A and Ms A want to pursue their claim they will need to 
provide the outstanding information for AWP to assess.
I think a fair and reasonable outcome to both parties is for AWP to pay compensation to 
Mr A and Ms A to acknowledge their upset, stress and inconvenience its error has caused. 
And its clear from Mr A and Ms As emails to AWP that its slow response to their complaint 
added to their stress about the whole claim situation and poor service by AWP.
I can see Mr A and Ms A booked a trip after AWP told them it would pay the settlement and 
before it told them that was a mistake and it needed more information. But at this point 
I cant fairly say that the trips costs should form part of my considerations for a 
compensation award because it may be that once AWP receive and assess the outstanding 
information it will pay the claim. 
So I make no finding in this decision as to whether AWPs error reasonably caused Mr A and 
Ms A financial loss. If on assessment of the outstanding information AWP does decline the 
claim Mr A and Ms A may want to complain to AWP and ultimately to us on that issue.
On the evidence I have I think the £150 compensation our investigator recommended is a 
reasonable amount for Mr A and Ms As distress and inconvenience caused by AWPs error 
and poor service. AWP has agreed to pay that amount. Putting things right
On the evidence I have AWP must pay Mr A and Ms A £150 compensation for their distress 
and inconvenience caused by its error and poor service. I make no finding in this decision as 
to whether AWPs error reasonably caused Mr A and Ms A financial loss for the reasons Ive 
detailed above.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr A and Ms A £150 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience caused by its error and poor service, as its now agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman