DRN-3115192
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about its fixed rate business loan from Lloyds 
Bank PLC. 
What happened
T took out a 25-year loan for £2,550,000 in January 2014 for their farm business. The 
interest rate was fixed for the duration of the loan. Ill call this FRL1. In September 2015 a 
15-year loan for a further £300,000 was agreed, also with the interest rate fixed for the 
duration. Ill call this FRL2.
T complained to the bank about both loans in July 2018. The complaint about FRL2 was 
upheld by the bank and T accepted the settlement offer. T was unhappy with the banks 
response to its complaint about FRL1 and referred its complaint to this service.
Ill refer to Ts directors as Mr and Mrs W. They said FRL1 had very onerous early 
repayment penalties. They said the problems theyd experienced with FRL2 meant that all 
trust and confidence in the bank had gone. They thought it would be better for both parties 
not to be tied to the relationship. They wanted the break costs removed from FRL1, so they 
could transfer to another bank, or to have the loan restructured so that £1m remained on the 
25-year fixed rate, with the rest on a variable rate. Mr and Mrs Ws original complaint to 
Lloyds alleged that the bank hadnt provided clear information about the potential scale of 
the break costs or about how they would be calculated. Mrs W also said that the bank 
representative had dictated a paragraph to her in advance, to read back to him during the 
execution call, and she believed this arrangement wasnt right.
Lloyds made the following points, in summary:
In the agricultural industry its common for customers to fix costs over longer periods. 
Mr and Mrs W had a succession plan in place, making long-term fixing more 
appropriate. One of their children was expected to take over the farm.
Mr and Mrs W had previous experience of both fixed and variable rate lending, 
demonstrating their appreciation of the respective advantages and risks.
The bank provided examples of what the break costs for FRL1 would be, which the 
company confirmed it understood. The information included a table illustrating the 
break costs and break benefits depending on the year of exit and on the difference 
between the fixed rate and banks replacement rate at the time of exit. Such an 
illustration was sent several times in December 2013 and January 2014. Mrs W 
confirmed she understood them.
A transcript of a call on 22 January 2014 shows that a bank representative explained 
the potential break costs, saying the calculation was based on reinvestment costs. 
Mrs W later emailed to say she understood and was happy to go ahead with a 25- 
year fix. On 31 January, during the execution call for the loan, a transcript shows that 
Mrs W confirmed by explaining her understanding of how break costs are calculated, 
based on the rate at which the bank can re-lend the rest of the loan amount.
T was fully engaged with the bank in terms of its lending requirements and was 
proactive in terms of how it wanted the loan to be structured. Therefore it was an 
informed decision by the company to enter into a 25-year fixed rate loan.
In its complaint to the ombudsman, T states if Lloyds agreed a 25 year fixed rate 
loan they should honour their word and see it through to the end. Therefore the bank 
and the company appear to be agreement that the fixed term is not deemed 
inappropriate. The complaint is made with the benefit of hindsight rather than FRL1 
not performing as expected.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was minded to uphold the complaint, for 
reasons that I set out below. I proposed that a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint 
would be to put T in the position it would have been if, at the outset of FRL1, three quarters 
of the lending was put on a fixed rate for 25 years, and one quarter was put on a fixed rate 
for seven years.
T didnt agree with the outcome proposed in my provisional decision, and Mr and Mrs W 
made a number of points in response which I also summarise and address below.
Lloyds made no further comments but, in answer to my request, provided indicative 
calculations for the value of the redress proposed in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an unusual case in that T says it hasnt raised its complaint about the fixed rate with 
the intention to pay off its loan in the short term. Rather, Ts directors say theyve lost 
confidence in Lloyds and ideally wish to move their borrowing to another lender. Theyre 
concerned  as a result of events related to FRL2  that they cant trust the bank, in their 
own words, to honour the agreement and to allow us to trade through, within the terms of 
the loan. With FRL2, a downturn in income led to a demand to reduce Ts debt, and my 
understanding is that its the fear of such an event which drives the directors anxiety about 
FRL1.
I appreciate that Ts directors have strong feelings about their relationship with the bank. But 
I dont believe I can reasonably require Lloyds to enable them to move Ts lending elsewhere 
without break costs simply because theyve lost confidence in the bank.
I do however note that FRL1 gives T no flexibility at all, as 100% of the borrowing is covered 
by the fixed rate for the full 25-year term of the loan. If T wished to reduce the debt at any 
time, either because funds become available or because the company ran into difficulties 
and needed to sell assets, then there is a risk that substantial break costs would be incurred. 
From the evidence of the call transcripts, Im satisfied that T chose to fix for the full 25-year 
period on all the borrowing. What I need to decide is whether it was a fully informed choice, 
or that the directors hadnt been made fully aware of all the risks.
Lloyds did provide information about how the fixed rate loan worked and it warned about the 
risk of break costs. It provided illustrations of the break costs which might be incurred, 
depending on the number of years into the loan and the Replacement Rate (compared to 
the booked cost of funds), set out in tables. The illustrations did show that the break costs 
could in some circumstances be very high  in one table, over £700,000 for exit in the first year of Ts loan of just over £2.5m  so Im satisfied that they showed there were 
circumstances in which early exit could be very costly. But the tables also showed that with 
other values of the replacement rate, the opposite could happen, with the result that an 
equally large sum could be paid to the customer.
The full meaning of these illustrations was not, in my opinion, easy to understand. The table 
showed the possible break costs mapped against two variables, one of which was 
expressed as a difference between two values (the number of percentage points that the 
replacement rate was higher or lower than the booked cost of funds). Even a reader who 
grasped the workings of the table would also need to appreciate the conditions under which 
the replacement rate would vary, in order to understand when the result might be a 
substantial cost rather than a substantial pay-out. The table didnt contain any information 
about what would lead the replacement rate to vary.
The information pack provided in December 2013 did say the table illustrated how interest 
rate market changes can affect break costs, and gave more detail about a specific row of 
the table as showing what would happen if the 15-year replacement rate (using bid-side of 
the market) was above 3.27% (Cost of Funds) and what correspondingly would happen if it 
was below 3.27%. So I can see the customer was informed that the replacement rate was 
related to the market, though again theres nothing about what would lead it to vary or by 
how much.
The banks representative gave further explanations of the break cost risk to Mrs W on the 
phone. However, I note that in those calls the representative referred to the reinvestment 
rate rather than the replacement rate, introducing a further layer of terminology. On 
22 January 2014, the representative told Mrs W that in the forthcoming recorded execution 
call, he would have to ask her how potential break costs are calculated, to make sure she 
fully understood. He asked her if she wanted him to go through it again, and she said yes. 
He then carefully worked through an explanation of how differences between the 
reinvestment rate and the original loan rate would lead to break gain or a break cost. Mrs W 
took notes and wrote out a paragraph that she could read out during the execution call. She 
has given us a copy of the handwritten paragraph.
In the execution call, as planned, the representative invited Mrs W to explain back to him 
what she understood about how break costs are calculated. She gave a clear and concise 
account of how break costs or benefits result from the difference between the original loan 
rate and the rate at which the bank could re-lend.
 
I doubt Mrs W would have been able to give a similarly clear explanation without the notes 
taken in the previous call. According to the transcript, Mrs Ws explanation closely resembled 
the paragraph shed prepared, which in turn used the same phrases and arguments that the 
representative gave her in the earlier call. But her explanation (following her prepared 
paragraph) was a condensed version of the representatives argument, and it made sense. 
In other words, she seems to have edited down what the representative had said without 
losing its meaning. I think this indicates that by the time she prepared the paragraph, she did 
understand that break costs would arise if the replacement rate was lower than the original 
fixed rate. In summary, its my view that the banks representative did coach her for the 
execution call, but that in the process, her understanding of break costs improved.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs W has said that the paragraph was full of bank 
terminology and that without her notes she would never have been able to explain what a 
break cost was. Having looked again at the notes and the transcript, I remain of the view that 
the concise explanation Mrs W gave during the execution call does indicate that, by then, 
she did understand that T would be liable for break costs if it exited when the replacement 
rate was lower than the fixed rate.Having said that, I note that despite the representative explaining the break costs at some 
length, there was no discussion about how the replacement rate is determined or what might 
lead it to rise or fall. So I believe that the directors werent informed about what factors would 
affect the replacement rate and, in particular, they werent given enough information about 
how predictions of future interest rate movements could move the replacement rate 
substantially downwards. Given that general interest rates were at a historic low when T 
entered its loan (the Bank of England base rate was 0.5%), I think it would have been 
reasonable of the directors  in the absence of further information about what determines the 
replacement rate  to assume there was no room for substantial movement downwards.
Moreover, in the 22 January call, the representative told Mrs W the worst case to happen is 
in ten years time the reinvestment rate we can achieve in the market is only 3%, as an 
example we have to pay 345 to the depositor and we only get 3% in the market for the 
remaining 15 years Mrs W therefore heard, from the bank, that the worst case for T would 
be a drop of 0.45% from the original fixed rate to the replacement rate, after ten years. This 
would be consistent with a belief that in 2014, rates had little room to fall. I note that in fact, 
the break costs for exiting FRL1 would have been £679,000 in September 2020, which by 
my understanding would be the result of the replacement rate dropping over 2% lower than 
the booked cost of funds. But a drop of 0.45%, in line with the representatives worst case 
would, by my own calculation from the table provided at the time of sale, lead to a much 
smaller break cost of around £175,000 in September 2020.
I accept that loans for agricultural businesses are often fixed for longer periods than in most 
other sectors. I also accept that the evidence shows that during the discussions, Ts 
directors had an appetite to fix their rate for the full 25-year term. They had a family 
succession plan and valued the predictability of outgoings that a fixed rate would provide. 
But during the discussions they had introduced the possibility of early repayments for various 
reasons, and part of the borrowing was for a new venture whose success couldnt have been 
regarded as guaranteed.
Mrs W told the bank, quite late in the discussions, that the directors had decided that they 
could, if necessary, reduce their other borrowing  their overdrafts in particular  and they 
therefore chose to fix the rate on all of the £2,550,000 borrowed in FRL1. But I dont believe 
that choice was a fully informed one. The fix on the entire loan left them with no room for 
manoeuvre for the entire 25 years of the loan, with the risk of very high break costs if they 
wanted or needed to reduce their debt. Had they fully appreciated the possibility that the 
replacement rate could fall substantially  as it later did  then I dont believe they would 
have chosen to rely solely on their existing other borrowing for flexibility. That other 
borrowing would have been unlikely to provide flexibility very far into the 25-year term.
In my view, Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have chosen to restrict their flexibility by fixing on 100% 
of the loan if theyd fully understood the risk of a substantial fall in the replacement rate. I 
believe that if it had been explained that the worst case wasnt a fall of 0.45%, but could be 
in excess of 2%, then it would have been reasonable of them to take a different view of the 
need for flexibility.
Lloyds has pointed out that Mr and Mrs W had taken out a previous nine-year fixed rate loan, 
in 2010, for £231,000. Ive already said that I accept that Mr and Mrs W had an appetite to fix 
their rate for a long period, and Im satisfied they understood the basics of how fixed and 
variable rate lending worked. But I havent seen any evidence that, in advance of the sale of 
the 2010 fixed rate loan, Mr and Mrs W were given any better information about the possible 
movement of the replacement rate than they were in 2014. Theres no indication in the 
transcripts of the calls in 2013 and 2014 that Mrs W reasonably understood what affected 
the replacement rate.For these reasons, I believe that if Ts directors had been fully informed, they would have 
made a different choice regarding their fixed rate. Im satisfied that they valued the protection 
of the fixed rate and would have chosen to fix most of the borrowing for the full duration, but I 
think they would have had a reasonable concern about the inflexibility of the fixed rate over 
the long term. In order to leave scope to deal with possible repayments and business 
uncertainties over the long term, I believe Mr and Mrs W would have chosen to take part of 
the borrowing on a fixed rate with a shorter duration.
Putting things right
I conclude that a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint would be to put T in the 
position it would have been if, at the outset, three quarters of the lending (£1,912,500) was 
put on a fixed rate for 25 years, and one quarter (£637,500) was put on a fixed rate for seven 
years. I believe this achieves a reasonable balance of flexibility and interest rate protection. 
One effect of this outcome would be that the fixed rate on the £637,500 lending would have 
expired early in 2021 and the loan would now be on a variable rate.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs W have suggested that if the lending is 
to be restructured part-fixed and part-variable, then 50:50 would be much closer to the ratio 
they would have chosen if theyd been fully informed, because of the prospect that T may in 
time be able to reduce its debt. Ive considered this point carefully, but Im not persuaded to 
change my view. I accept that T would have required some flexibility to reduce its debt, but 
this has to be balanced with the companys clearly expressed appetite for certainty over its 
interest costs over the long term. Mr and Mrs W have acknowledged that they understood 
the advantages of long-term planning by fixing interest rates. They had a family succession 
plan for the farm and, with the borrowing taken over such a long period, I think they would 
have seen the possibility of future interest rate rises as a serious risk to the business and 
would have wished to control that risk. I therefore still believe that the restructure which 
leaves one quarter of the borrowing on a variable rate is a fair and reasonable outcome of 
this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W have also stressed that the banks repayment demand regarding FRL2 came 
as a complete surprise. As a result, they now believe that, given the break cost risk, they are 
trapped for the duration of FRL1 and the bank could unilaterally decide what T should repay 
and thereby force it to pay a break cost. But this argument returns to Ts loss of confidence 
in the bank to honour its contractual commitments for the duration of the loan agreement. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs W were alarmed by the banks actions regarding FRL2, but that 
matter has already been settled and I cant reasonably require a change in Ts lending 
simply because the directors have lost confidence in the bank. I think its fair and reasonable 
that my decision should assume that both parties will comply with their contractual 
obligations under their loan agreement. I also believe that the ending of the fixed rate on a 
portion of the loan will give T greater flexibility to deal with any temporary business 
difficulties in the future.
For the above reasons, I dont depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For this complaint I can make a money award requiring the bank to pay compensation of up 
to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I consider that fair 
compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the bank to pay the balance.Determination and award: I uphold this complaint and I consider that fair compensation 
requires Lloyds Bank PLC to carry out the steps I specify below. I order the bank to do this - 
up to a maximum financial effect of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the financial effect of my award exceeds £160,000, I recommend that 
Lloyds Bank PLC still carry out in full the steps I specify. This recommendation isnt part of 
my determination or award. It doesnt bind the bank. 
The specified steps
Lloyds Bank PLC should put T in the position it would have been in if it had borrowed the 
same total amount of £2,550,000 but with a fixed interest rate for seven years on £637,500 
and a fixed interest rate for 25 years on the remaining £1,912,500. This should reflect the 
following practical considerations:
The replacement lending should run from the original start date.
From the end of the seven-year fixed rate on the £637,500, that part of the lending 
should revert to a variable rate.
The bank should not charge T any break costs for restructuring the lending as 
required by this decision.
The bank should reimburse any difference in payments between the existing and the 
replacement product.
The bank should add compensatory interest at 8% simple per annum to the 
reimbursed payments from the date the cost arose to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman