DRN-3233715
The complaint
Mr E complains that National Counties Building Society (NCBS) gave notice to close his 
account. He doesnt consider this action to be fair.  He wants his account to remain open or 
to be compensated for the detriment he believes would result from the account closure.
What happened
Mr E opened an account with NCBS in 2004. He moved to Jersey a few years later and 
informed NCBS of his new address. His account remained open and NCBS communicated 
with him at his Jersey address. 
In March 2021, Mr E received a letter from NCBS saying that this account would probably 
need to be closed. The letter said that NCBS accounts were for people who lived and paid 
taxes in the UK but that it had for several years allowed people who had moved outside of 
the UK to continue to hold and operate their account. It said following the UKs departure 
from the European Union it had reviewed its position and decided it couldnt continue to offer 
this.
Mr E contacted NCBS saying that he still pays taxes in the UK and that the UKs departure 
from the European Union didnt impact the UK / Jersey relationship. Mr E received a final 
response letter in April 2021 saying that although the departure from the European Union 
didnt impact Jersey directly the running and monitoring of accounts for customers who live 
overseas had become more complicated and NCBS would no longer allow non-UK resident 
accounts to be kept open. 
Mr E referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated that there hadnt been a change in 
the UK / Jersey relationship and noted that accounts for Crown employees were being kept 
open. He said that closing the account would cause him administrative inconvenience, loss 
of interest and potentially higher risk depending where he moved his money to. He 
calculated compensation of £400 for this.
NCBS says that a review was carried out in late 2020 of the accounts held by customers 
who resided outside of the UK. Following this and the considerations arising from the UKs 
withdrawal from the European Union is was decided that accounts for non-UK residents 
would be closed. It says its terms and conditions set out that customers needed to be 
resident in the UK (excluding the Channel Islands and Isle of Man) for tax purposes and that 
more than two months notice of the closure was given. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that NCBS had provided adequate 
notice of the account closure and was acting in line with its account terms and conditions.
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that NCBS ability under the terms and 
conditions to close his account had to be exercised in a proper way that included giving an 
accurate reason and not exercising the power irrationally. He didnt accept this had 
happened and didnt think he had been treated fairly as accounts for other overseas 
customers had been kept open. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr E wants his account with NCBS to remain open and he has explained 
the detriment he considers would arise due to its closure. However, in this case, I do not find 
I can say that NCBS has done anything wrong, or acted unfairly towards Mr E, by saying it 
will be closing his account. I will explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es account state that in order to open an account the 
customer must be resident in the UK (excluding the Channel Islands and Isle of Man) for tax 
purposes or, if not resident, be a Crown employee serving overseas or married to or in a civil 
partnership with a Crown employee serving overseas. Mr E opened his account and then 
moved to the Channel Islands. This puts him outside of the terms of the account. 
Mr Es account was allowed to continue to operate after his move to the Channel Islands and 
I can understand why he wants this to continue. NCBS has explained that while it had 
previously allowed accounts to continue to operate it had undertaken a review given the 
UKs departure from the European Union and decided this would no longer continue to be 
the case. I do not find I can say that it has acted outside its terms and conditions by doing 
this. 
The terms and conditions state that NCBS can close all or part of your account at any time 
without giving any reason, but [it] will give you at least two months written notice... The letter 
dated 8 March 2021 notifying Mr E of the closure of his account gave three months notice. 
So, NCBS was acting within its terms and conditions by giving more than two months notice 
of the account closure. 
Mr E says the terms and conditions should be acted on in a proper and rational way and he 
doesnt believe that a rational reason has been given for his account closure. In this case 
NCBS has explained that it reviewed its services for non-UK resident accounts and the 
impact of the UK withdrawal from the European Union. So, while I understand the point Mr E 
has made about the UK / Jersey relationship not changing, I can also appreciate that based 
on its review NCBS has decided to close non-UK resident accounts. 
I note Mr Es comments about accounts remaining open for certain overseas customers. I 
have only seen reference to Crown employees. This is a decision for NCBS to make and I 
do not find that by allowing certain defined groups (which were included in the account 
opening requirements of the terms and conditions) it means that Mr E has been treated 
unfairly. The action to close Mr Es account is being taken in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and the reason for this has been explained. Therefore, I do not find 
I can say he is being treated unfairly.
Overall, while I understand the frustration this issue has caused Mr E, I find that NCBS has 
acted within its terms and conditions and given Mr E adequate notice of the account closure. 
This was a commercial decision and I think it has done enough to explain its position to 
Mr E.
Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman