DRN-3548061
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of their travel 
insurance claim. My refences to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had travel insurance through a bank, insured by UKI. They booked and paid 
for a family holiday for ten people abroad travelling from 19 July to 2 August 2020. The 
holiday included flights and separately booked villa accommodation.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On 
17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
The airline cancelled their flights and Mr and Mrs R cancelled the accommodation. They 
incurred cancellation costs totalling £3,943.90 which they claimed on their policy.
Initially UKI rejected the cancellation claim. On review it accepted but partially settled the 
claim. UKI said the policy only covered the financial loss suffered by people insured on the 
policy. The booking invoice showed the booking was for ten people - six adults, three 
children and one infant. So UKI paid 20% of the total cost as only Mr and Mrs R were 
insured on the policy. UKI also offered Mr and Mrs R £50 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience for giving them incorrect information about their claim.
Mr and Mrs R complained to us. They said no one was to blame for Covid-19 and UKI had 
unfairly penalised them. Theyd paid for everyone and their guests werent aware of the 
holiday booking so couldnt have taken out insurance to cover their costs. And UKI had told 
Mrs R that even if the other members of the party had taken out insurance they wouldnt 
have been covered as they had no financial loss. Also, UKI had caused them a lot of stress 
by rejecting the claim for the wrong reason and then suggested they contact the credit card 
provider for a refund who wouldnt pay either. They hadnt received the £50 compensation 
UKI had offered. Mr and Mrs R want UKI to pay the full claim and the compensation.
Our investigator said UKI acted fairly in paying a portion of the claim. But she thought UKI 
should have calculated Mr and Mrs Rs portions using nine people instead of ten people as 
the infant slept in a free of charge cot in his/hers parents room. Our investigator thought the 
infant hadnt added to the costs so it was unfair for UKI to consider that the infants portion of 
the accommodation costs was equivalent to the other nine guests. She also said UKI should 
pay the £50 compensation it had offered.
Neither party agreed so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Mr and Mrs R still said UKI should pay the full claim. UKI said the infant should be included 
in the number of guests when calculating the portion of costs for Mr and Mrs R. In summary 
it said the accommodation slept ten and the accommodation providers considered that ten 
people would be staying at the property. Even if the infant just needed a cot bed, which was 
free, all ten people would have had the same basic benefit of being accommodated at the 
villa and using utilities. Each person's use of additional facilities at the accommodation would 
vary but that was impossible to calculate and the policy terms didnt say calculations would 
be made on that basis. As to the £50 compensation, it had sent a cheque to Mr and Mrs R 
but as that hadnt been cashed it would reissue the cheque.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
Industry rules and guidance say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the policy 
terms, the relevant law, the evidence from both parties and the circumstances of the claim to 
decide whether UKI acted fairly and reasonably.
The policy terms and conditions say under the who is covered heading:
This policy provides cover for the account holder only. You can extend the cover to 
include your partner, any dependent child or a guest by purchasing a family or guest 
upgrade.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs R had bought a family or guest upgrade to their 
policy.
The cancellation section of the policy sets out a list of specific things which UKI doesnt 
cover. One of these is:
The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your 
portion of any costs even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
I think the policy terms make it clear that UKI will only cover the costs of policyholders who 
are insured by the policy. It clearly excludes the costs of people who arent insured under the 
policy, even if a policyholder has paid their costs as a gift.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs point that the guests werent aware of the booking so couldnt 
have taken out insurance cover. And its possible that if the guests had taken out insurance 
the insurer/s might not have paid their portions of costs, but I need to consider the actual 
circumstances of the claim and that situation didnt happen.
I think UKI has clearly specifically excluded cancellation costs which have been paid as a 
gift. So I think UKI acted reasonably in only paying Mr and Mrs Rs portions of the 
cancellation costs even though they paid the full costs as a gift.
I also think UKI was fair to include the infant when calculating Mr and Mrs Rs portions to be 
20% of the cancellation costs. The holiday confirmation letter from the accommodation 
provider says the accommodation sleeps 10 and the number of guests is stated as six 
adults, three children and one infant, so ten in total. The property damage waiver is stated as 
being for ten people and the providers FAQs show the cost of the waiver was calculated at 
£5 per person, so the total cost of £50 included a charge for the infant.
The providers letter does say the infants cot and highchair were provided for free and 
I accept what Mr and Mrs R say about the infant sleeping in the same room as his/her 
parents. But I dont think its fair to say that none of the accommodation costs should be 
apportioned to the infant, the accommodation cost was for ten people and ten people stayed. 
I think UKI fairly settled the claim by paying the portions of cost for the two of the ten people 
who were insured under the policy.I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Rs position as theyve been left out of pocket when the 
holiday was cancelled through no fault of their own. But I think UKI settled their claim fairly 
so Im not directing it to pay anything more. 
UKI accepted it made errors in its handling of Mr and Mrs Rs claim. I think the £50 
compensation it offered to recognise their distress and inconvenience due to this was a 
reasonable amount. UKI says it issued a cheque to Mr and Mrs R on 25 August 2020. As the 
cheque hasnt been cashed UKI has agreed to reissue the cheque, which is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said it had nothing to add. Mr and Mrs R didnt think my decision was fair. They 
emphasised that if their guests had known about the holiday and taken out insurance the 
guests insurer/s wouldnt have paid as the guests had no financial loss. They had the full 
financial loss but UKI had only paid 20% of the loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I do understand Mr and Mrs Rs point that its 
possible if their guests had taken out insurance the insurer/s might not have paid the guests 
portions of costs. But I need to consider the actual circumstances of the claim and that 
situation didnt happen. And I think UKI has clearly specifically excluded policy cover for 
cancellation costs which have been paid as a gift. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint. I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably in only paying Mr and Mrs Rs portions of 
the holiday cancellation costs even though they paid the full costs as a gift. And I think UKI 
fairly settled the claim by paying 20% of the costs claimed which represented Mr and 
Mrs R's share of the costs. I think the £50 compensation UKI offered to recognise Mr and 
Mrs Rs distress and inconvenience due to its errors in handling their claim was a reasonable 
amount. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman