DRN-3787510
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car acquired with finance from NNIB Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance (NNIB) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with NNIB.
Mr K experienced issues with the car. It broke down and was returned to the dealership. Mr 
K was provided with a courtesy car, which also had some issues. Ultimately the dealership 
agreed to take back the car and settle the agreement.
Mr K complained to NNIB seeking a refund of payments hed made when the car was off the 
road. NNIB didnt uphold the complaint. It said the rejection had been agreed and the matter 
was closed.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said I was satisfied that Mr K had 
been provided with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality and that rejection was the 
appropriate remedy. I said that because Mr K had been provided with a courtesy car whilst 
his car was off the road, I didnt think there was any basis for refunding Mr Ks monthly 
instalments. However, I said it was fair to recognise that Mr K had been caused distress and 
inconvenience as a  result of being supplied with a  car which wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
and as a result of being supplied with a courtesy car which had issues. I recommended that 
compensation of £500 was paid to Mr K to reflect this.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
NNIB didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr K responded and said he felt that he should be refunded the monthly instalments hed 
paid for December  February because hed requested to reject the car in December and 
shouldnt have had to continue paying for a further two months. He said he would have 
borrowed a car during this time until he could purchase a new one rather than use the 
courtesy car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of the points that Mr K has made. I understand that this has been a very 
frustrating experience for him and that he feels that the rejection shouldve been accepted 
sooner than it was. However, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that there was 
clear case for rejection of the car in December. At this stage, the car had broken down and 
was with the dealership for assessment. It was only when that assessment was completed 
that rejection was accepted. And I cant overlook the fact that a courtesy car was provided to 
Mr K throughout, which he used. In the circumstances, I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, NNIB Group Limited trading as Northridge must pay compensation of 
£500 to Mr K for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NNIB Group Limited trading as Northridge 
must take the action Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman