DRN-2108993
The complaint
Miss D asked Revolut Ltd to make three payments for her. She realised shed given the 
wrong account details so asked them to recall the funds. Miss D is unhappy that Revolut Ltd 
instead corrected the account details and transferred a payment to the account. She wants 
Revolut Ltd to reimburse her the sum they incorrectly transferred and to pay compensation.
What happened
Between 20 and 22 October 2019, Miss D asked Revolut Ltd to make three transfers. These 
were for $2, $4,198 and $1,160, all three were for the same recipient, a travel agent, and 
were for a trip she had arranged while overseas.
 
On 25 October at 17:17, she contacted Revolut Ltd on their online chat service and 
explained that she had arranged to pay money to a travel agent but they hadnt received the 
funds yet, she asked Revolut Ltd to confirm the funds had been sent. She received some 
general messages asking for further information. Miss D then sent a screenshot of the 
payment for £1,160 and followed this with a message at 17:41 which said We discovered 
the account number is wrong. Please can you recall the funds. Account number should be 
**********. They missed a digit. It appears the original account details provided by Miss D to 
Revolut Ltd had a digit missing.
 
At 18:06 Revolut Ltd said they would ask the relevant team to check if it was possible to 
recall the transfer. They sent another message at 19:52 which said it wasnt possible to 
recall the transfer, however their team had amended the account number and the transfer 
should now reach the correct account. 
Miss D had decided to pay for the trip directly with the trip organiser and has provided a 
receipt which shows that her husband made a payment of $5,300 by credit card on 25 
October.  
Miss D then found out that a payment of $1,160 had been made so she contacted Revolut 
Ltd on 1 November and said she didnt want them to change the account as her husband 
had paid for the trip by credit card. She explained that she had been told by the intended 
recipients bank that the original funds would have bounced but now that Revolut Ltd had 
changed the account details and sent $1,160 again, it meant the travel agent had received 
$1,160 extra because they had already paid by credit card.   
I can see that Miss D then asked Revolut Ltd to recall all three payments made. There was 
then ongoing discussions between Miss D and Revolut Ltd through November during which 
Revolut Ltd said they had made requests for a recall and were waiting for the bank, where 
the funds were received, to get approval from the account holder to return the funds. At the 
same time, Miss D was trying to contact the travel agent who was originally ignoring her 
emails. They then responded and said they hadnt received the $1,160. 
On 6 December, Revolut Ltd sent a message to Miss D which said that the recipient bank 
had confirmed the funds had been paid into their account holders account on 31 October. 
The sum which had been paid was $1,140 but Revolut Ltd said that it was most likely that 
intermediaries had taken fees. There were further discussions between Miss D and Revolut 
Ltd during which they said they couldnt take the matter forward as the account holder wasnt 
returning the funds. Miss D was also told to contact the police as Revolut Ltd felt the account 
holders refusal to approve the refund was fraud. Miss D contacted the police and provided 
these details to Revolut Ltd. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss D and asked Revolut Ltd for their response. They 
told us that their Transfers Investigations team always advise customers to go with an 
amendment rather than a recall because its faster. And because of this, customers usually 
prefer amending payments instead of recalling them.
They told us that they tried to act in the best interests of Miss D by requesting an 
amendment. They also felt that the lack of precision in Miss Ds instructions should be seen 
as a contributing factor towards the issue. They also said that Miss D didnt respond when 
they told her about the amendment on 25 October. They said if Miss D had been more 
precise in her instructions and communicated her wishes in a timely manner, it wouldnt have 
taken the same amount of time to proceed with the recall.
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to  
Miss D and Revolut Ltd on 20 July 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
 
This complaint comes down to what Revolut Ltd understood Miss Ds instructions to 
be from her message at 17:41 on 25 October. The message asked Revolut Ltd to 
recall the funds but there was no further request beyond this. In my view, Revolut Ltd 
should only have taken the action they did if there was a clear request for them to 
resend the funds but using the correct account details. There was no such instruction 
from Miss D.
 
The online chat history shows that the agent from Revolut Ltd who spoke with Miss D 
on 25 October did understand Miss Ds request because they told her they would 
check if it was possible to recall the transfer and then later said it wasnt possible to 
recall the transfer. The action taken here shows that Revolut Ltd did understand Miss 
D wanted to recall the payment and acted in line with this by first checking the 
position internally and then confirming the position to Miss D. I do therefore intend to 
take the view that Revolut Ltd understood what Miss D wanted. So, the next point to 
consider is whether Revolut Ltd acted fairly and reasonably by then taking steps to 
resend the payment.
  
The message sent by Miss D did provide the correct account number so I can see 
why Revolut Ltd took this as an instruction to resend the funds to the correct account. 
However, I feel that should only have been done if there was a clear instruction for 
them to resend it. I say this because the message from Miss D can be viewed in two 
ways. It can be seen as an instruction to recall and resend because Miss D had 
provided the correct account details. It can also be seen as a recall only but with Miss 
D providing the correct account details just to let Revolut Ltd know why a problem 
might have occurred with the original funds. 
By seeing it as an instruction to resend the funds, as was the case here, the 
consequences of getting it wrong are that a payment will be made to a party when 
Miss D didnt want that, which would then lead to a process of having to recall this. 
The consequences of seeing it as a recall only, and getting it wrong, are that the 
funds wouldnt have been resent and another party wouldnt have received the funds. 
I understand the second scenario would have led to a payment not being made for a 
service but, had this been the case and Revolut Ltd later found out that Miss D did 
want them to resend the funds, then it would have been reasonable for Revolut Ltd to argue that there was no positive request for them to do anything other than recall the 
funds. In addition to this, Revolut Ltd say that the outcome for recalls is highly 
uncertain depending on the circumstances. 
This being a consequence, which Revolut Ltd accept, is even more reason for them 
to have checked their understanding of Miss Ds request with her before resending 
the funds. The consequences of resending the funds was therefore greater than not 
resending the funds. 
     
I believe Miss Ds intention was for the funds to be recalled and not resent. I say this 
because it's clear from the receipt she provided she had already decided to pay for 
the trip separately. Revolut Ltd werent to know this because Miss D didnt tell them, 
but the message she sent only had one clear request, that was her asking them to 
recall the funds. Miss D didnt then say what else she wanted Revolut Ltd to do with 
the funds so it would have been reasonable for Revolut Ltd to have recalled the 
funds and wait for any further instructions from Miss D.
   
I can see that Revolut Ltd say there was a lack of precision in Miss Ds instructions. I 
understand why Revolut Ltd treated Miss Ds message as a request to resend the 
funds. I have addressed this above, and why I feel Revolut Ltds actions werent 
reasonable, but their comment about lack of precision shows that they accept there 
was detail that was missing from Miss Ds request. I agree with this and therefore this 
was all the more reason to check with Miss D before taking any action in the matter. 
The message about the recall should have led Revolut Ltd to check their 
understanding. I feel no action should have been taken until they had heard back 
from Miss D to confirm what she wanted. 
      
Revolut Ltd say they were trying to do whats best for Miss D because a recall takes 
longer to sort out than an amended payment. I do understand this and see why they 
feel they were doing what they thought was best for Miss D by making an 
arrangement which meant the matter could be sorted quicker. It does however bring 
us back to the point that the lack of a clear instruction shouldve led to no action 
being taken apart from a recall. And Revolut Ltd, knowing the consequences of 
getting it wrong, should have realised it would lead to a position which wasnt in Miss 
Ds interests. 
   
Revolut Ltd say that Miss D didnt respond when they sent a message at 19:52 letting 
her know what steps they had taken. I have seen the online chat history which shows 
this message was sent two hours after Miss Ds last message. Miss D has said that 
she wasnt on the online chat at this point and she also feels it was clear from her last 
message what her instructions were. I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss D to 
stay on the online chat for over two hours, particularly when she was on her 
honeymoon. Following Miss Ds last message, which set out the recall instruction, 
Revolut Ltd sent six messages between 18:03 to 21:01, I feel it should have been 
clear from the lack of response that Miss D was no longer present in the online chat. 
In light of this, Revolut Ltd, should have waited for further instructions from Miss D or 
tried to make contact with her to check their understanding of her request.
I therefore intend to uphold this part of Miss Ds complaint that Revolut Ltd acted 
unfairly and unreasonably by resending the payment of $1,160. 
 
I have also looked into Revolut Ltds actions once they became aware of the problem 
with the payment. This was brought to their attention by Miss D on 1 November and I 
have seen the online chat started at 16:17 and finished at 19:30 on that day. In messages sent by Miss D she says It is our honeymoon. Lots of stress very 
unhappy. and Honeymoon should be relaxing, not dealing with banking nonsense. 
Its clear that Miss D was upset and frustrated at what had happened and 
inconvenienced by having to discuss this with Revolut Ltd for over three hours on 1 
November, while being on honeymoon.
 
I have seen that Revolut Ltd did take steps to try and recall the $1,160 but this didnt 
prove successful as the account holder wasnt giving their approval to their bank for 
this amount to be sent back. During this time, Miss D was further inconvenienced by 
having to make contact with the account holder, the party who they paid by credit 
card for the trip, an overseas police force and also Revolut Ltd. This continued from 
November 2019 to January 2020. I do understand the reasons why Revolut Ltd 
asked Miss D to make the enquiries she did but the error which led to this was made 
by Revolut Ltd and they shouldve looked into refunding the $1,160 and then taking 
any steps necessary to recover this sum themselves. 
  
So, subject to any further comments from Miss D or Revolut Ltd, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above. 
 
Following my provisional decision, Miss D has replied to say she doesnt have anything 
further to add and Revolut Ltd havent replied.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Revolut Ltd did make an error in resending the $1,160, so they 
should refund this amount to Miss D. The payment made was in US Dollars so the refund 
should be US$1,160. I can see that processing fees were applied to the refund of $4,198 but 
I havent seen any evidence which shows that the same fees wouldve been applied to the 
$1,160. So, Revolut Ltd should refund the full amount. I think, had the error not occurred, 
then this wouldve been refunded to Miss D on 13 November which is the same day the 
other payments were refunded.
 
That said, I understand Revolut Ltd might want to recover this sum themselves and can see 
that they have information which they would need to seek recovery. If however, there is 
further information they need then Miss D should help provide any further details. 
Revolut Ltd should also pay compensation to Miss D. This reflects the shock to her when 
first realising that the payment had been resent and the worry, upset and inconvenience 
caused to her in having to deal with the issue while on honeymoon. This also takes into 
account the further inconvenience to her in having to deal with the issue for three months 
with Revolut Ltd.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Revolut Ltd must:Refund the sum of US$1,160 directly to Miss D together with simple interest on this 
amount at the rate of 8% a year* from 13 November 2019 until the date of settlement; 
and
Pay compensation to Miss D in the sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Revolut Ltd 
must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman