DRN-2702916
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Pi Financial Limited (trading as Money Foundations) gave her 
negligent advice to switch her Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) into another SIPP. The 
advice facilitated investment into a high-risk product - the Optima Worldwide Group (OWG) 
bond. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Legal Partnership (LP) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd, trading as Money Foundations (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  stockbroker
Horizon Stockbrocking (HS)  discretionary investment manager
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Mrs M was advised by another financial adviser (DM) to switch her pension to a SIPP in 
order to release some tax-free cash. She says after the drawdown DM advised her about 
better investments for her remaining funds and introduced her to an individual connected to 
OWG Investments Ltd who also worked for LP. She was then told this needed to be 
arranged through an independent adviser and she was subsequently introduced to Pi.
Theres a letter from Mrs M to Pi dated 10 February 2014 which said:
I would like to transfer my existing Self Invested Pension Plans.into a new Self Invested 
Personal Pension Plan, in order to allow me a to access a wider range of investment with a 
lower charging structure. Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and 
arrange the transfer accordingly. Please note that  have a separate investment adviser who 
will be arranging the investments to be held within the SIPP and therefore I do not require 
any advice from you concerning this or the suitability of a SIPP platform.
The adviser replied by letter dated 12 February 2014 which said:
Thank you for your letter of 10th February 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your 
current Self Invested Pension Plans into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). I 
confirm I am happy to complete your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of 
the market to find the most appropriate SIPP for your requirements.

I will have no input into the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this and therefore will only be responsible for arranging and 
transferring your funds into the SIPP.
On 18 February 2014, various documents were completed and signed. This included: 
a Client Agreement
a SIPP application form
a fact find 
a Knowledge and experience assessment which showed Mrs M didnt really have 
any investment experience other than having a pension which she had received 
advice on.
A risk assessment showed she was risk averse when it came to investments
Pi recommended a new SIPP with JH for Mrs M and she switched her pension from her 
existing SIPP -which had only been recently established- to JH. Funds of around £35,000 
were subsequently invested through Strand into OWG bonds. 
Strand went into liquidation in 2017 and the OWG bonds have since been given a nil value 
by JH.
Mrs M made a complaint to Pi in 2019 about the advice she received from them which they 
rejected.  One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it should 
be upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Mrs M had been suitable and Pi should 
compensate Mrs M for her losses.
Pi disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. I also considered their 
submissions on similar complaints. However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to 
be the key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of this complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Mrs M instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Mrs M with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited 
nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable.
Pi didnt provide Mrs M with advice to switch her SIPP or on the investment in OWG. 
Mrs M had already decided what she wanted to do before she approached Pi. 
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Strand and HS who 
were also regulated firms. They are responsible for Mrs Ms losses and not Pi who 
only played a very limited role here. 
DM who was also a regulated adviser was the one giving Mrs M the original advice to 
invest in OWG, so the firm he was working for at the time should be held responsible 
for this advice.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mrs M investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mrs M would have relied on the advice or whether she would have acted the 
same way she did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mrs M did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated 
in the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mrs M 
with regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mrs M. This is also clearly evidenced in the recommendation letter where 
advice and recommendation are mentioned throughout, and it says JH will offer the most 
suitable contract given [Mrs Ms] stated objectives.
Im satisfied that recommending a suitable SIPP provider can be considered to be advising 
under Article 53 RAO. Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a 
personal recommendation to Mrs M when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the 
obligations in COBS 9 were engaged.was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mrs Ms instructions. 
Mrs M had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and she told them she 
didnt require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch between 
SIPPs or where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mrs Ms objectives and that she was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mrs Ms recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was to choose her 
own investments which may include direct investment in shares. Pi was aware that more 
specifically she intended to invest through Strand and HS because they said they had 
conducted due diligence on the firms. Theres no evidence in this particular case whether Pi 
knew Mrs M was intending to invest in OWG, however even if they didnt, in order to give 
suitable advice they needed to obtain this information.
I consider the risks of Mrs M transferring her existing pensions and the risks of her intended 
investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mrs M wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mrs M was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mrs Ms wider circumstances including how her 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
From the knowledge and experience assessment it was clear Mrs M didnt really have any 
investment experience, so they should have queried what Mrs M wanted to invest in that 
couldnt be catered for in her existing SIPP (which at this point was recorded to be invested 
solely in cash). Particularly as the risk assessment which was completed showed Mrs M to 
be risk averse.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlyinginvestments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser 
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi says Strand 
would have given Mrs M advice on her investments. However, Mrs M opened an account 
with Strand on an execution-only basis and I cant see any evidence that they were intending 
to provide Mrs M with investment advice.
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mrs Ms 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch between 
SIPPs, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the underlying 
investment strategy. I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mrs M to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mrs M were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty 
to meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi to consider the 
wider suitability of Mrs Ms intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether she 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mrs M.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mrs Ms case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mrs M on the suitability of the James Hay SIPP, 
Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension 
switch and where Mrs M intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mrs M with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mrs M was 57, had no recorded savings or other investments and beyond her pension had 
no other investment experience. 
The OWG bond was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are 
not regulated. The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us on another complaint) 
confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections 
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors 
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Mrs M completed that she didnt have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which 
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of her retirement funds. Pi have also confirmed to this service previously that they consider the OWG bond to be 
unsuitable for retail investors, so I dont think its really in dispute that Mrs Ms intended 
investment was unsuitable for her.
Given Mrs Ms lack of investment experience and her risk averse attitude, Im also not 
persuaded she was a credible self-investor. I cant see any persuasive reasons why Mrs M 
needed to change her pension at all, given that she had a SIPP which would have given her 
plenty of options to invest. 
Pi knew - or ought to have known - that the intended investment into OWG was too high risk 
and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Mrs Ms circumstances. Despite this, they 
recommended a SIPP and arranged the paperwork to facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mrs M. They should have 
explained that her intended investment was too high risk and that given this was as large if 
not all of her retirement provisions, she couldnt financially bear the risks with her retirement 
funds. 
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
which facilitated an investment which was clearly not suitable for him. They didnt pay due 
regard to Mrs Ms interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mrs M as per their regulatory obligations. Therefore I do 
not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mrs M were fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
would Mrs M have transferred her pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Mrs M would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what 
Pi told her. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume 
that Mrs M was given this brochure - which is something I dont know - she might have been 
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that LP might have 
influenced Mrs M in the background and could have persuaded her to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
recommending her not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any 
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Mrs 
M had no real investment experience so Im not convinced she would have been able to 
properly understand the risks she was taking with her entire pension here. 
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mrs Ms overall 
financial position. She didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to her pension, 
which was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, 
as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had clearly explained they couldnt 
recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for her circumstances, 
the transaction wasnt in her best interest and she couldnt afford to risk her pension in this 
way, I think she would have decided not to proceed.
Given that Pi should have been aware that there was a risk Mrs M was being influenced by 
LP and potentially not given full and clear information about what she was about to do, they 
should have established what she had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
Im not persuaded the evidence suggests Mrs M was so strongly motivated to make the 
transaction that she would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert 
advice. I think if Pi had been given her clear information about how risky the OWG investment was and that she could lose a significant amount of money, she would have 
listened.
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mrs M would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended
against the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for her. I think, on balance, 
Mrs M would have remained in her existing SIPP and invested her money there.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on 
Strand/HS providing a suitable recommendation for Mrs M. 
The account Mrs M had with Strand was execution-only. So they werent intending to give 
Mrs M any advice. 
I also dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm (F1) 
receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity on 
behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and Strand/HS were F2. However, 
Pi didnt receive any instructions here from these firms. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mrs M would be invested in. If they had done so, 
they would have known her intended investment in OWG was high risk and unsuitable for 
her.
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on 
Strand/HS providing Mrs M with a suitable investment, when they knew or ought to have 
known she was about to invest into an unsuitable product.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mrs M unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mrs M 
more likely than not would have remained in her existing SIPP. Having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mrs M for any losses she 
suffered by transferring into the JH SIPP and investing into OWG.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mrs Ms knowledge and experience, objectives and financial 
situation. Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying 
investment in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investment was evidently unsuitable for Mrs M.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the 
decision, I think Mrs M wouldnt have been in the SIPP or OWG bond investment at all if Pi 
had met their obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently she wouldnt have 
suffered the investment losses she did. I therefore consider the losses Mrs M suffered from 
the high-risk investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.I also considered DMs involvement here who was working for a regulated firm and also for 
LP. Pis records show DW introduced Mrs M to Pi in his capacity of being a representative of 
LP. Based on Mrs Ms testimony it was DM who originally introduced the idea of OWG to 
her. So its possible that DM gave Mrs M unsuitable advice without which Mrs M might never 
have been introduced to Pi. So I can see Pis argument that DW might hold responsibility 
here too.
However, I can only consider the complaint in front of me which is against Pi. And as 
explained above, Pi could have prevented Mrs Ms losses by giving her suitable advice 
notwithstanding what had happened previously. So I think its fair Pi compensate her for her 
losses in full. If Pi feel that other parties actions have contributed to these losses, they are 
free to pursue this directly with them.
OWG might distribute funds to customers at some point, however its unclear if and when 
this will happen. So in the circumstances I think its fair for Pi to compensate Mrs M now. Ive 
included ways to ensure Mrs M is not overcompensated in the redress below. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mrs Ms losses my aim is to put her as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Mrs M would more likely than not have stayed in 
her existing SIPP and would have invested differently. Its not possible to say what 
precisely she would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs Ms circumstances and attitude to risk when she invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mrs M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation 
is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume that Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs M 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mrs M £ £300 to compensate her for the worry and concern she would have felt 
when she realised she possibly lost all her retirement funds
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs M asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
JH SIPPStill 
exists, 
but 
illiquidaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
I understand Mrs Ms OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market. This means it can be complicated to establish its value. JH has already 
given it a nil value. Pi should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment the actual value of the OWG investments should 
be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Mrs M 
provides an undertaking to pay Pi any amount she may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
Mrs M might have received a compensation payment into her SIPP from the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) after the liquidation of Strand. This would have 
been to account for a remaining cash amount which was held by them. This payment will 
be included in the actual value, so no further adjustment is needed to account for this.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Pi should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mrs M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs M was risk averse
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to compensate Mrs M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman