DRN-3651934
The complaint
Mr C complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) hasnt reimbursed him the cost of repairing his
car under a motor insurance policy he has. Mr C also complains that QIC has taken the
decision to cancel his policy which has also led to financial losses.
QIC is responsible for Mr Cs complaint as it is the underwriter of the policy, however, I
understand that another party has been dealing with the complaint to date. In this decision, I
will refer only to QIC as theyre the responsible party.
Mr C is being represented in bringing his complaint, however for ease in this decision, I will
refer to Mr C throughout.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to 
the same outcome as our Investigator, however, I provided some more detail in the decision. 
I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to 
consider before coming to my final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In August 2021, Mr C contacted QIC to make a claim on his policy for some accidental
damage that was caused to his car. When Mr C reported the incident on the 16 August
2021, he explained that his father (a named driver on the policy) was dropping someone off
at the train station when he drove over a high curb. Mr C said this happened on 12 August
2021 at around 5pm. QIC logged the claim at this time and made a note of the details.
During the course of the claims investigation, QIC noticed that the car Mr C was claiming for
didnt have a valid MOT, and had been registered with a Statutory Off Road Notification
(SORN), which means it couldnt be driven on the road unless it was being taken directly to
an MOT test centre. So, on 18 August 2021, QIC queried this with Mr C during a phone call.
Mr C said he thought the car did have a valid MOT and that he would check this with the
garage.
On 2 September 2021, Mr Cs representative contacted QIC to provide details about where
and when the MOT was booked. During the call, the representative said the MOT was
booked in for Friday 6 August 2021 at 4pm. Mr Cs representative confirmed that this was
the date the accident happened and said that the car was taken to the MOT test centre, but 
the test centre told Mr C to drive it around before the test due to the emissions and then to
return to the test centre. The car wasnt returned to the test centre because this is when the
accident occurred.
On 13 September 2021, Mr C forwarded an email to QIC from the repairing garage, which
stated that the car had been in the garage since 9 August 2021. It said it hadnt had any
contact from QIC in this time and it didnt think it should take this long to get authorisation for
the repairs, and so it told Mr C it would be charging £70 per day storage costs until repairs
are authorised or the car is collected. Mr C says that he paid for the repairs himself because
he didnt want to incur a storage fee.
On 17 September 2021, QIC emailed Mr C to ask some questions about the following main
points:
Clarification on the circumstances and date of the incident relating to the claim
Undisclosed past claims
Undisclosed modifications to one of the vehicles on the policy
Mr Cs occupation. QIC found that Mr C was the director of a company that provides 
car hire. QIC found that some of the cars it has on cover appear for hire on a 
website.
Mr C responded to the email, however, QIC asked for more information as it said that the
responses Mr C provided were vague and, in some instances, didnt answer the question
posed. Mr C didnt respond to the further questioning.
On 29 October 2021, QIC sent Mr C a letter confirming that it was cancelling his policy in
seven days. The letter said that the decision to cancel the policy was due to undisclosed
claims, undisclosed modifications, and a lack of response to the questions it had asked. QIC
confirmed in the letter it would issue Mr C with a pro-rata refund, but it would retain the
brokers cancellation fee and commission.
QIC didnt uphold any part of Mr Cs complaint about claim delays, cancellation of the policy,
and that QIC hadnt yet provided Mr C with an answer about whether it will repay him the
repair costs.
In order to settle this complaint, Mr C would like QIC to repay him the repair costs, and to
reimburse him for the cancellation fee and retained commission charged by the broker.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr C, but they didnt uphold his complaint. They relied
on information in the policy documents to determine that Mr Cs claim had been dealt with
fairly, and the policy cancelled in line with the contract of insurance. So they didnt think QIC
needed to do anything more for Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree with this. His main points were:
The insurance was paid in full.
Mr Cs father was the only other named driver on the policy.
The car required an MOT and was booked into the garage on day of accident.
Under UK law you may drive the car 30 miles round trip to get it an MOT.
The insurance company confirmed it was booked in for an MOT.
Mr C took a ruling from his solicitor who confirmed to QIC the questions asked.
QIC continued to ask irrelevant questions which were not related to the car or the 
accident.
Because Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to
me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. I appreciate thatthis will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons for this below.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint appears to be about three main issues. Ill cover these off
separately.
Cancellation of the policy
QIC says it cancelled Mr Cs policy because he didnt disclose a previous claim to it when
asked, he also didnt disclose modifications to one of the vehicles covered under the policy
and because Mr C didnt cooperate with QIC when asked questions about the incident and
other factors that it felt could affect its underwriting decision.
The policy document states:
We or your authorised Broker have the right to cancel this policy at any time where there is
a valid reason for doing so by giving you 7 days notice in writing. A cancellation letter will be
sent to the latest address we have for you and will set out the reason for cancellation.
The policy terms provide examples of different examples of valid reasons to cancel a policy,
none of these fit the circumstances of the cancellation in this case. However, the policy
terms also state that valid reasons for cancellation are not limited to those examples.
Mr C didnt fully cooperate with QIC in its enquiries, and in my view, this is a valid reason to
cancel the cover. And Ill explain why below.
I can see QIC asked questions about the modifications to one of the cars on cover which
hadnt been disclosed at inception  this question wasnt answered by Mr C. I think it likely
QIC would have needed to know an answer to this question so it could determine if it was
prepared to insure the risk  given that it wasnt aware the car had been modified.
QIC also had concerns about how the cars on cover were being used and who the
registered keepers of the cars were. I find this concern to be reasonable given that QIC had
found information to suggest the cars on cover were advertised as available for hire online,
and Mr C was the director of this company. I can also see that QIC requested a copy of the
V5 document from Mr C  but based on what Ive seen, I dont think he provided this.
I dont find it unreasonable that QIC cancelled the policy for the reasons Ive stated above.
QIC were entitled to ask questions to determine the risk of the cars on cover. Because Mr C
didnt fully respond to QICs enquiries, it couldnt be satisfied that the risk was one it was
prepared to cover, so I dont think cancelling the policy was unfair or unreasonable.
I appreciate Mr C says that the questions QIC were asking him werent relevant to the
incident or the car involved in the incident. But during QICs investigations into the incident, it
discovered information that was relevant to the policy as a whole  I dont find the questions
it asked to be irrelevant to the policy  and I dont think it was unreasonable of QIC to ask
questions to investigate that.
I have seen that Mr C is unhappy that he paid for the cover in full and so he feels he should
be covered for the full policy term. Just because a premium is paid upfront, it doesnt mean
that QIC are required to keep the cover in place for the whole time  especially if it becomes
aware of potential changes in the risk. QIC provided Mr C with a pro-rata refund of the
premiums he paid for the cover  less costs the broker charged for cancellation and the
retained commission  I dont find this to be unreasonable in the circumstances. And the
policy document states that a policy cancelled outside of the cooling off period may incur a
fee.
Repair costsIts worth noting here that QIC hasnt yet made a decision as to whether or not it will pay out
on the claim. So, this provisional decision wont be deciding on this point, but I will look to
see if what QIC has done so far is fair, and I think it is.
QIC asked Mr C several questions about the incident which led Mr C to claim on the policy
and other questions relating to the policy. Mr C provided some short responses to these
questions, and following this, QIC had further questions. Mr C said he wasnt going to
provide any further information to QIC.
QIC are entitled to ask any questions it feels are relevant to the incident itself or relating to
the insured risk. Having considered the questions posed to Mr C about both the incident and
other risk factors relating to the policy, I dont think the questions QIC asked Mr C were
unreasonable  nor were its follow up questions.
Based on what QIC had been told by Mr C and his representative, the details of the incident
were very unclear. Initially Mr C told QIC that the incident happened on 12 August 2021
when his father had been driving the car to drop a friend off at the station.
QIC queried why there wasnt a valid MOT for the car at the time of the incident and Mr C
told QIC that he thought there was one. QIC also found that the car had been registered as
SORN  which means it couldnt be used on the roads unless it was being driven to an MOT
test centre.
Later, on 2 September 2021, Mr Cs representative provided an entirely different version of
events to QIC. The representative said the incident happened on 6 August 2021. The car
was driven to the MOT garage, the garage said that Mr C should drive the car about due to
the emissions, and the accident happened while the car was being driven at this time and so
no MOT was ever carried out. The garage in question confirmed that an MOT was booked
on that day but didnt confirm any other details.
When QIC questioned this with Mr C, he said that his representative must have provided the
wrong date. But QIC pointed out that the garage must have also got the wrong date if this
was the case  so the incident date remains unclear. In addition to this, Mr C didnt answer
any questions about why there was a contradiction in how the incident occurred. I think it
was important for QIC to determine this in order for it to decide whether the incident Mr C
was claiming for was covered under the policy.
Given that Mr C wasnt prepared to answer additional questions, relevant to the incident and
the cars on risk, I dont think QIC have been unreasonable in not investigating the claim
further  or to date, not having reimbursed Mr C the cost of repairs.
If Mr C decides to provide a reply to QICs questions, then Id usually expect them to
reassess whether theyre prepared to pay the claim or not. If QIC decide not to reassess the
claim, then theyll need to explain to Mr C why theyve chosen that action.
Claim delays
Mr C first reported the incident to QIC on 16 August 2021 and the claim is still ongoing,
which is a long time. However, I dont find these delays to be solely down to QIC.
Before repair work can be authorised, QIC are entitled to make checks to ensure that it
would cover the claim. I can see that QIC found that there was no valid MOT for the car at
the time of the initial reported incident and it found that the car had been registered as
SORN. QIC asked Mr C to speak to the MOT centre to get evidence of the MOT. Mr Csrepresentative didnt provide the MOT test centre information until 2 September. QIC sent Mr
C an email asking further questions on 17 September, and then additional questions on 28
September, which Mr C didnt answer.
Based on what Ive said, I dont find that unreasonable delays have been caused by QIC,
and so I wont be asking them to do anything further here.
Mr C responded to the provisional decision and made the below main points:
He was extremely unhappy to find that his claim hadnt been upheld.
The insurance was in place at the time of the incident, and the car was being driven 
to an MOT test centre at the time and the garage asked him to drive it around for 
emissions  he has said that this can be confirmed by the garage.
The wrong date of incident was initially provided because to QIC because Mr C 
wasn't involved in booking the MOT and was away when the incident occurred. 
The vehicle hadnt ever been hired out and was insured for personal use. 
The insurer was slow in responding and were looking for a reason not to pay out on 
the claim. 
QIC didnt respond to the provisional decision, so I have assumed it has nothing further too 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, it is still my decision not to uphold this complaint. 
I have taken on board Mr Cs comments in response to the provisional decision. The 
comments he has made appear to refer to QIC not paying out on the claim. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, QIC hasnt yet made a decision as to whether or not it 
will pay out. So, I cant make a finding that QIC has unfairly declined the claim, because it 
hasnt yet made this decision. 
I do however think it was reasonable of QIC to ask and get sufficient responses to the 
questions it posed before deciding whether to pay out on the claim or not. Because Mr C 
didnt provide QIC with a sufficient response, I dont think it was unreasonable of QIC not to 
continue to investigate things further. So, if Mr C does want QIC to continue investigating the 
claim, he will need to respond to QIC. 
It isnt my role to make the decision that QIC should or shouldnt pay out on the claim. I can 
only look to see if the actions they have taken so far are fair  and for the reasons Ive 
already explained, I think QIC has treated Mr C fairly. 
I appreciate that Mr C still feels that QIC were slow to respond to him, but for the reasons I 
have already stated in my provisional decision, I dont think this part of Mr Cs complaint 
should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman