DRN-3063708
The complaint
Mr J complains of issues with a car he acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement with 
Moneybarn No 1 Limited(trading as Moneybarn). He would like to negotiate a lower price to 
buy the car outright
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done do I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
When issues arise with a car within six months of an agreement, as is the case here, 
we usually say its a business responsibility to investigate and to resolve any point of 
sale issues. In this case Moneybarn did what I would have expected it to do. It 
actually arranged two independent inspection reports. I have read both carefully. 
Both conclude there were faults with the car but not ones that could be said to be 
present or developing at the point of sale. They were due to general service wear 
and deterioration. These reports are independent which means they are not 
undertaken or written by Moneybarn itself but by approved independent inspectors. 
So, I think its reasonable to rely on them. I am persuaded that there is no evidence 
of any issues for which Moneybarn is responsible.
Mr J has said that he bought the car on the basis that it had been fully serviced but it 
hadnt been. Unfortunately, he hasnt been able to give us any evidence to show 
what was advertised or if there was any agreement over service or not. So, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the car was mis represented to him.
Its unfortunate that Mr J has experienced problems with his car. But as the car is a 
used one  he might reasonably expect more wear and tear than with a new car. But  I 
have no evidence of either the car being mis represented to him or of faults for which 
Moneybarn is responsible. So I cant reasonably ask Moneybarn to reduce the price 
of the car for Mr J to buy as he would like
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
