DRN-3284547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy about an early repayment charge (ERC) they had to pay when 
they changed the interest rate product attached to their mortgage with Nationwide Building 
Society before the end of its term. They were made aware that they would have to pay an 
ERC when they spoke to Nationwide, but are unhappy that they werent told that the amount 
of the ERC would reduce if they waited a few months. 
In settlement of the complaint, Mr and Mrs W would like half of the ERC they paid refunded, 
to place them in the position they would have been in had they waited until the ERC had 
reduced to 1% before they exited their existing interest rate product.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took a mortgage with Nationwide which started in May 2016. They attached a 
five-year interest rate product to it. The mortgage offer detailed that if they repaid the 
mortgage or exited the interest rate product before the end of its term they would have to 
pay an ERC. It would be calculated as a percentage of the outstanding balance of the 
mortgage and was stepped, starting at 5% and reducing by 1% each year. Due to when the 
mortgage started, the reductions happened on 1 June each year.
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs W approached Nationwide because they were concerned about 
what effect the Covid-19 pandemic would have on interest rates. They were concerned that 
by the time their then current interest rate product ended the following year, interest rates 
would be much higher. Nationwide arranged for them to speak to a mortgage consultant. A 
new product was recommended that fixed the interest rate on the mortgage at 1.94% for five 
years.
A mortgage offer for the new interest rate product was issued to Mr and Mrs W at the end of 
March 2020. It gave details of the rate that was being applied, its term and the monthly cost. 
In addition, it was explained that an ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid or the rate 
exited during the term. The amount of the ERC was stepped and started at 5%, reducing by 
one percent on each mortgage anniversary. The product was applied to the mortgage on 
1 May 2020. 
Subsequently, Mr W said that he spoke to an independent mortgage broker about another 
matter. During that conversation the subject of the Nationwide mortgage arose and Mr W 
reported that the broker told him that Nationwide should have highlighted that the mortgage 
anniversary was approaching and that the ERC on the existing product would reduce at that 
point. Mr and Mrs W complained to Nationwide that this hadnt been done and so they 
couldnt make an informed choice about whether to delay taking out a new rate by a few 
months, and pay a smaller ERC.
Nationwide responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that, given the priorities 
Mr and Mrs W expressed, the advice it gave them was appropriate. It highlighted that the 
reduction in the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer they had been given in 2016. 
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with Nationwides response and referred their complaint to 
us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs W 
didnt accept the investigators opinion. Mr W expanded his explanation of the concerns he 
had when he approached Nationwide in 2020. He said that when expressing concern that 
interest rates would increase significantly, he wasnt talking about this happening in the 
immediate future, but rather his reference point was the end of the existing product term in 
2021. Mr and Mrs W remained of the view that Nationwide should have highlighted that the 
amount of the ERC would reduce in just over two months, and offer to delay the discussions 
because that would save them money. While some financial impacts of the arrangement 
were explained, and they had decided to accept those consequences proceeding, the impact 
of the timing on the ERC was not explained and they were unable to make an informed 
choice.
The investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ws further comments, but she wasnt persuaded to 
change her view of the case. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigator. They said the 
mortgage adviser shouldnt have assumed that Mr W knew what he was talking about and 
should have probed further into his thoughts and understanding. The fact that Mr W had 
made up his mind about the situation didnt cancel out Nationwides duty of care toward 
them. They remained of the view that in not going over the details of the existing interest rate 
product, Nationwide made a considerable omission. They said that had they been reminded 
about the details of the ERC on the existing product and had still decided to go ahead, they 
wouldnt be complaining. Mr and Mrs W asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have told us that they are unhappy that Nationwide didnt remind them about 
the details of their existing mortgage product when they told it they wanted a new one. They 
are correct that it didnt do so. However, I am not persuaded in the circumstances that it did 
anything wrong in not doing so. 
Firstly, I am satisfied that the documentation Mr and Mrs W received when they took out the 
original interest rate product in 2016 clearly showed that the ERC was stepped and reduced 
each year. While it showed a drop in the rate on 1 May each year, this was based on the 
assumption the mortgage started in April 2016. Mr and Mrs W would have known their 
mortgage didnt start until the middle of May and so the mortgage anniversary would be 
later, but reasonably they would have known the ERC would reduce annually. 
The mortgage adviser immediately informed Mr and Mrs W that if they exited their existing 
interest rate product they would have to pay an ERC and how much it was at that point. She 
then attempted to explore Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage arrangements as a whole. Mr W made 
it clear that he and Mrs W didnt want that and simply wanted to attach a new fixed rate to 
the mortgage. In doing so, he highlighted his and Mrs Ws professions; professions which 
would generally give them a greater awareness and understanding of financial services 
products. He went on to explain that this meant, when it came to their finances, they had a 
quite extensive knowledge and they were not regular customers. The adviser followed 
Mr Ws instruction and ceased trying to consider their wider arrangements, and moved onto 
the costs involved with the potential new mortgage arrangements. 
In this type of circumstance, I wouldnt usually expect an adviser to take consumers through 
the details of their existing mortgage, unless they indicated that there were things they didnt 
understand. That would have been the role of the mortgage adviser when that mortgage was sold. In addition, in this particular case, Mr and Mrs W made it clear that they were more 
than aware of the detail of their existing arrangements and didnt want to discuss them at 
that time. 
Mr and Mrs W were clearly aware that they were going to have to pay an ERC to do what 
they wanted before they met with the adviser, and they didnt raise any concerns about the 
amount they were told they would have to pay. This, along with their comments to the 
adviser about their knowledge and profession, would indicate that they were likely aware of 
the detail of the ERC attached to their mortgage. 
There were then discussions about the costs of the alternative five-year products, including 
whether they would be cost-effective. Until the adviser suggested adding a product fee to the 
mortgage, Mr and Mrs W had decided to take an option that they were told wasnt cost 
effective and it is clear that they were willing to take this risk in order to mitigate the future 
risk of interest rate rises. Toward the end of the discussions the adviser took Mr and Mrs W 
through details of the interest rate product they wanted. This included explaining that there 
was an ERC attached to it and that the amount of the ERC reduced each year of the 
product. As this was the then current equivalent product to the existing one, had 
Mr and Mrs W not been aware of the reducing nature of the existing product ERC, I would 
have expected them to have raised questions at this point. None were raised. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Nationwide did anything wrong in not pointing out, when 
Mr and Mrs W asked to change their interest rate product, that the ERC would reduce in just 
over two months. In addition, even if that had been pointed out, I am not convinced that 
would have made a difference to the decision Mr and Mrs W made, as they were clearly 
willing to move forward with their plans, even if they were not considered cost-effective. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman