DRN-1626516
 
The complaint
Miss A has complained that her motor insurance policy was unfairly cancelled after she 
provided all the documents requested by Carrot Risk Technologies Limited (Carrot).
What happened
Miss A took out a policy with Carrot on 2 January 2019. Carrot requested several documents 
from Miss A which included images of her online counterpart driving licence, photo licence, 
and her car odometer.
Miss A uploaded the requested documents on 5 January 2019.
Carrot wrote to Miss A on 30 January 2019 requesting additional documents be uploaded as 
the previous ones were not acceptable. Carrot has told us that as the requested documents 
were not received by the deadline given of 15 February 2019 it cancelled
Miss As policy.
Miss A has told us that she did upload the documents before her policy was due to be 
cancelled. To support this she has shown images taken on her phone time stamped before 
the cancellation date.
Carrot has confirmed further documents were received on 14 February 2019 but not all the 
documents that were requested. Carrot also explained Miss A was unable to provide a copy 
of her App log to support the documents had previously been uploaded. 
Our investigator considered Miss As complaint and thought the images provided by her that 
were time stamped showed it was most likely she had attempted to upload the documents 
that had been requested. Our investigator also didnt think the information stored on Carrots 
system evidenced Miss A hadnt uploaded the documents. So she thought Carrot had 
unfairly cancelled Miss As policy, and that the complaint should be upheld.
Carrot disagreed. It considered the images provided by Miss A and explained that they did 
not include an image of her online counterpart driving licence, therefore the policy was 
cancelled correctly. Miss A was also given the standard notice that her policy was going to 
be cancelled. So it wasnt required to give Miss A any more time.
Since our investigator reviewed Miss As complaint she has sent in further evidence showing 
she also had images of her online counterpart on her phone before the policy was cancelled, 
and she says she uploaded these through the App as Carrot had requested. Our investigator 
asked Carrot to comment on these images but it hasnt provided anything more for us to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss A uploaded documents requested by Carrot when she first took out her 
policy. When Miss A was asked again to upload further documents by the 15 February 2019 
she also uploaded further documents.
I have looked at the system information provided by Carrot but I dont think this shows
Miss A didnt upload the documents she said she had. Miss A has also provided information 
that shows she had the documents requested by Carrot on her phone before her policy was 
due to be cancelled, including the online counterpart. I think it is unlikely Miss A would have 
gone to the effort of obtaining all the information requested by Carrot and only uploaded part 
of it.
Miss A has also explained that she was unable to show the information in the App as she 
deleted this after using it to upload the document, as at that point she assumed everything 
was resolved. I dont think this is unreasonable, and I do think Carrot should be able to show 
clearer records of the information that was gathered.
With the above in mind I dont think Carrot has shown it cancelled Miss As policy fairly.
Putting things right
To put things right Carrot should:
Update the conciliation record to show the policy as being cancelled by Miss A.
Charge only a pro-rata amount for the insurance policy, refunding any difference it 
has charged Miss A including any setup and cancellation fees.
Pay Miss A £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused her by 
cancelling her policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Carrot Risk Technologies Limited to put things right by 
doing what Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman