DRN-2046323
The complaint
Miss W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically includes 
payment protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and 
critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out 
as the consumer wishes. 
Miss W was sold such a policy in 2010 during a meeting with Halifax.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already provided Miss W with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the cover was mis-sold. She disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
Miss Ws complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Miss W may genuinely and honestly 
believe that the policy was mis-sold to her. Halifax still has some, but not all, of the sale 
documentation left for me to see. However, businesses dont have to retain records 
indefinitely and this isnt particularly unusual.
Ive started by thinking carefully about whether Miss W ever agreed to take the policy out. 
The evidence suggests she did, because Ive seen a demands and needs document which 
shows that the cover was discussed, probably in some detail, during a mortgage review 
meeting. And Miss W herself acknowledges that she would have had to authorise the 
monthly premiums to be drawn from her bank account to pay for the elements of cover she 
was sold. 
I also see Miss W already had a mortgage for quite a few years before this mortgage review 
meeting took place. By definition therefore, she would have known this type of protection 
wasnt compulsory with a mortgage and she would have been aware of the choices available 
to her at the point of sale. 
I think theres plenty of evidence that Halifax correctly obtained her consent.
Next, I looked to see if the policy was suitable for Miss W because Halifax recommended 
this to her as part of an advised sale. Its the PPI element Im specifically looking at here 
because the CIC and life cover are completely different types of protection.
Miss W may well already have had some sickness and redundancy protection with her job at 
the time and I can see she why she might imply this made the PPI unnecessary. However, 
whilst I understand the point being made, Im afraid I havent seen anything that shows the 
cover wasnt suitable for her circumstances. For example, I think the mortgage was a very 
significant and long-term financial commitment for her and secured against her home. The 
consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI 
cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 12 months if shed 
needed to claim so I dont think Halifax recommending it to Miss W was wrong. 
She also seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Miss W also would have known what the cover 
was costing and what elements of the TMPP she had agreed to. My experience of these 
sales is that the breakdown of each element was fairly comprehensive and set out clearly 
enough for consumers to see. She would have been sent relevant policy schedules for each 
element of the cover. 
I therefore think she probably had enough information on which to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss W and Id like to reassure her that Ive read carefully 
through all the information she has kindly sent through to us. But to uphold her complaint Id 
need to think it was more likely she either never gave her proper consent or that there were 
other significant flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence and I think its much 
more likely she tailored the cover to suit her needs of the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman