DRN-3190595
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to remove a default from his account.
What happened
The facts here are not in dispute. In summary a number of years ago, a default was applied 
to Mr Ws Lloyds account. He was advised that the default would be removed but this didnt 
happen. 
The default affected Mr Ws credit rating and he was unable to get a mortgage or any credit 
to buy equipment for his business. Mr W called Lloyds in June 2021. Lloyds apologised and 
confirmed that the default should have been removed in January 2020. It apologised and 
offered Mr W £500 to put things right. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this as he didnt feel it was enough due to the stress hed 
experienced and the effect the default had on him getting credit. 
Our investigator felt that the offer Lloyds had made was fair. Mr W appealed. He said he 
knew that he was being declined for credit but this didnt mean he automatically realised that 
the default was still on his account. He felt that Lloyds should have done what it said it would 
do in the first place.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an unfortunate situation. Lloyds should have back dated the default on Mr Ws 
account when it said it would and its failure to do so impacted Mr W. I accept that this was a 
very stressful time for him. But my role isnt to punish financial businesses. Here I can see 
that as soon as Lloyds was made aware of the issue it rectified it, offered an apology and 
compensation and contacted the credit reference agencies. I think that is fair. 
Mr W said in response to our investigators view that he thinks he did call Lloyds a few times, 
however there is no note of this on Lloyds log. There is no fault at all on Mr Ws part but Im 
satisfied that Lloyds would have rectified the issue as soon as it was notified. This is what 
happened in June 2021. Ive considered the amount of compensation offered and in all the 
circumstances Im satisfied that £500 is fair compensation for the impact Lloyds error had on 
Mr W.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle this complaint and for the 
reasons given I find this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC pay Mr W £500, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman