DRN-2178540
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) handled the renewal of his 
car insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr D had a car insurance policy through Sainsburys, an insurance intermediary. Theyre 
responsible for helping Mr D with his renewal but arent the insurance provider (also known 
as the underwriter).
Sainsburys wrote to Mr D on 19 December 2019 asking for some documentation to be 
provided in relation to his insurance. Mr D found this peculiar as he was renewing through 
Sainsburys, so they already knew some of the information. Sainsburys said if they didnt 
receive everything in the next seven days, they may have to cancel the policy.
Mr D spoke to Sainsburys on 27 December 2019, they told him the documents were 
required for validation purposes and had been requested by the underwriter.
As documents still hadnt been received by 31 December 2019, Sainsburys contacted the 
underwriter for guidance on next steps.
By 2 January 2020 some documents had been provided and they were forwarded on to the 
underwriter. As not all of the documents had been provided, and some considered 
unsuitable by the underwriter, Sainsburys wrote to Mr D again on 7 January 2020, asking for 
what was outstanding and repeating the message that if not received in seven days the 
policy may be cancelled.
On the same day, Sainsburys wrote to Mr D to say his policy was due to be cancelled on 17 
January 2020.
Mr D contacted Sainsburys on 11 January 2020 to ask what was happening, and he was 
told he still needed to provide more documents. Mr D provided some further documents 
(although not all) on 13 January 2020, with them sent on to the underwriter two days later.
Mr D contacted Sainsburys on 21 January 2020, he was told the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The following day, the underwriter informed Sainsburys that proof of no claim 
discount hadnt been received so the cancellation would still stand.
Accordingly, Sainsburys sent a second cancellation notice confirming the policy would be 
cancelled on 1 February 2020. However, Mr D provided proof of no claim discount which 
was accepted on 30 January 2020, so his policy wasnt cancelled.
Mr D raised his dissatisfaction throughout and Sainsburys provided him with their final 
response letter. They did not uphold Mr Ds complaint, they said they were acting for the 
underwriter who was entitled to request validation documents. Although they did accept that 
sending two letters on 7 January 2020 couldve caused confusion.
Unhappy with that, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here looked 
into the matter and found Sainsburys caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience in 
the way they had handled things. The investigator recommended Sainsburys pay £100 
compensation to Mr D.
Sainsburys did not agree, they said other than sending two letters on the same day they felt 
theyd acted appropriately and in line with the underwriters instructions.
Because the matter is unresolved it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Sainsburys has said it was acting under the instructions of the underwriter, but 
when gathering information from Mr D, they are acting for him, as the intermediary he asked 
to arrange his policy.
I would first advise that theres nothing wrong with Sainsburys asking for documents, and 
this was done on the instruction of the underwriter which had changed from the previous 
year.
I can understand why Mr D found this to be unnecessary, bearing in mind he was already a 
Sainsburys customer. I think it was Sainsburys choice to make the request without giving 
any context first, and it was Sainsburys choice to send two letters on the same day.
I think this was unhelpful and confusing to Mr D which couldve been avoided.
Further, while Sainsburys said Mr Ds policy would be cancelled on 17 January 2020, they 
didnt follow through with this. While I appreciate this was because Mr D had tried sending in 
further documents, and to allow him further grace, I cant see that he was told this had been 
revoked. Mr D says this left him believing he was uninsured between 17 and 21 January 
2020, the latter date being when he was told his policy was still active.
I know Mr D couldve contacted Sainsburys for clarity on whether or not he was insured, but 
that doesnt mean it was fair of Sainsburys to change the position without informing him  so 
they added to the confusion being caused.
And Sainsburys also failed to inform Mr D that his proof of no claim discount had been 
accepted. As above, Mr D couldve checked if he was in doubt, but Sainsburys had issued a 
second cancellation notice that was revoked. And I believe, as his intermediary, they ought 
to have confirmed to their customer that the underwriter had now validated the policy and the 
cancellation would no longer stand.
Overall, I believe Sainsburys should have handled this matter better than it did and that in 
not doing so it caused unnecessary frustration and confusion to Mr D.    
Putting things right
For the reasons explained, Sainsburys should pay Mr D £100 compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to put things 
right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman