DRN-1724606
Complaint
Miss B says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
unaffordable loans to her.                          
Background
This complaint is about twenty-two high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Miss B from April 2016 onwards. Miss Bs last loan was provided in June 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought she shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 5 to 22. Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint 
was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss B was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 5. I say this because by this stage Miss B exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans not too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them were even provided 
when Miss B already had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Indeed loan 5 was 
provided while there were outstanding balances on loans 2, 3 and 4. 
Sunny continued lending to Miss B even when this pattern was repeated and in 
circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more 
likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Miss B had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 5 to 22;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
any adverse information recorded about loan 5 should be removed from Miss Bs 
credit file. The number of loans provided means that any information recorded as a 
result of loans 6 to 22 is adverse. So all reference to loans 6 to 22 should be 
removed from Miss Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss B complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman