DRN-4143320
The complaint
Mrs M complains AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly provided her with a loan.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mrs M with a £4,800 personal loan in November 2015. The loan had 
instalments of around £160 across a 60-month term, with a total repayable value of around 
£9,530.
Around June 2022 Mrs M complained to AvantCredit saying it had irresponsibly provided her 
with the loan. She said it hadnt completed reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure 
the loan would be affordable to her across the full term. AvantCredit didnt uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint issuing its final response in July 2022.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. She said AvantCredits checks 
werent reasonable and proportionate; but in any event the information it had obtained ought 
reasonably to have led to it concluding the loan was unsustainable for Mrs M to maintain; 
and therefore she concluded it hadnt made a fair lending decision when granting this loan. 
AvantCredit didnt agree with our investigators outcome. It said Mrs M would have been able 
to consolidate the majority of her exiting credit accounts with this loan, and therefore reduce 
her monthly payments towards credit commitments. It said the checks it completed were 
reasonable and proportionate; and that it calculated Mrs M would be able to sustainably 
afford the loan. It therefore maintained its argument that it made a fair lending decision.
Our investigator reviewed the additional information AvantCredit presented but it didnt 
change her outcome. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.  
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website.
AvantCredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Mrs M. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time 
AvantCredit lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks 
needed to assess Mrs Ms ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, 
without causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
considering things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well as the 
borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for AvantCredit to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
AvantCredit has said it completed an income check and identified Mrs Ms monthly income 
to be around £1,100; and that it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate 
Mrs Ms regular monthly expenditure, taking into account the average regular expenditure 
based on people with similar circumstances. AvantCredit also says it completed a credit 
check and obtained details about Mrs Ms credit accounts and credit history. 
AvantCredit says the information it obtained through these checks caused it no concern, or 
indicated that further checks were warranted; and as such it argues its checks were 
proportionate and that it went on to make a fair lending decision based on these checks. 
Ive carefully considered AvantCredits arguments and having done so, Im not persuaded it 
did complete reasonable and proportionate checks; or went on to make a fair lending 
decision in this instance.
I say this because the credit file obtained by AvantCredit shows Mrs M had 12 open lines of 
credit at the point of this application, totalling around £6,000. The lines of credit were spread 
across credit cards, mail order accounts, home credit loans and unsecured loans/instalment 
loans. Eight of these accounts and more than half of Mrs Ms total indebtedness, around 
£3,350, had been obtained within six months of this loan.
So, in the very recent past Mrs M had opened a high number of credit accounts, and had 
more than doubled her total indebtedness, which could be further increased through her 
revolving credit facility limits. As such Im not satisfied AvantCredits checks were 
proportionate given what it knew about Mrs Ms financial situation. I consider the increase in 
credit  and available credit  within such a short space of time, together with the types of 
credit accounts obtained ought to have been of concern to AvantCredit. And I therefore 
consider reasonable and proportionate checks ought to have led to it obtaining a full 
understanding of Mrs Ms financial situation; by verifying her actual income and expenditure, 
as well as obtaining details of her existing credit commitments; to ensure this lending would 
be sustainably affordable for her.
Ive not gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have 
shown AvantCredit at the time of its lending decision. This is because I consider, based on 
the information it had already obtained, that AvantCredit ought reasonably to have identified 
that further lending, no matter its purpose, wasnt sustainable for Mrs M.
I consider the information within the credit file AvantCredit obtained at the point of the loan 
application suggests Mrs M was already showing signs of financial distress. As Ive set out 
above, Mrs M had opened a high number of lines of credit within a short space of time, and a 
number of these lines of credit were home credit loans and what appear to be short term 
unsecured loans/instalment loans. 
Our investigator noted that a number of the lines of credit AvantCredit suggests Mrs M would 
have consolidated were close to being repaid. Indeed, from the credit file information 
AvantCredit obtained it suggests that all three of the home credit loans would have been 
repaid within around nine months of this loan being approved, had the contractual payments been maintained. So, by consolidating these home credit loans Mrs M would have been 
extending the repayment terms of these loans by a minimum of around 51 months. 
The same is also true for one of the unsecured loans. From the information AvantCredit 
obtained at the point of the lending decision it appears that this loan would be repaid within 
around 14 months of this application; so, Mrs M would be extending the repayment term of 
this lending by around 46 months. 
I dont consider Mrs M looking to extend the terms of these existing credit commitments over 
such terms to be of benefit to her. While I accept the home credit loans would have likely 
attracted a higher rate than this loan, these were being borrowed over a significantly shorter 
term. This loan had an APR of 37.1% and Mrs M would be repaying nearly £4,800 in interest 
towards this loan over the full term, roughly double the total amount advanced.
AvantCredit has said it didnt obtain details of the existing lines of credit Mrs M was looking 
to consolidate with this loan, but it has retrospectively calculated what this may have looked 
like. I accept this loan, although not at a value high enough to enable Mrs M to consolidate 
all of her existing debts, would cover the majority. However, AvantCredit didnt identify this 
information at the time, so in its own words it is assumptive and somewhat speculative 
whether Mrs M would have consolidated as it has suggested. 
Taking into account the consolidation as AvantCredit has set out, Mrs M would still be paying 
around 35% of her monthly income towards repaying credit commitments on a monthly 
basis. Ive come to this figure by calculating reasonable repayment terms for the revolving 
credit AvantCredits proposed consolidation would still have left needing to be paid, as well 
as taking into account repayment of the unsecured loan and payments towards this loan. 
This is still a significant proportion of Mrs Ms monthly income and I consider an 
unsustainable level, especially given Mrs Ms recent credit activity. 
Given Mrs Ms recent pattern of borrowing, strongly suggesting a higher dependence on 
credit to meet her regular expenditure and existing credit commitments, Im not satisfied that 
she would have been able to sustainably maintain payments towards this loan without 
having to take out additional borrowing. The use of short term unsecured loans and 
instalment loans, together with home credit loans, and the recent opening of revolving credit 
accounts (with a utilisation at around 80% at the point of this application) paints a picture of 
someone who wasnt managing their finances well as was reliant on credit. 
It therefore follows Im satisfied AvantCredit didnt make a fair lending decision when 
approving Mrs M with this loan.
Putting things right
As Mrs Ms had the benefit of the lending, I think its fair that she repays the principal amount 
borrowed. But Mrs M has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been 
provided. So, I think Mrs M has lost out and AvantCredit of UK, LLC should put things right 
by taking the following action:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any payments 
made by Mrs M should then be deducted from the new starting balance
a. If the payments Mrs M has made total more than the amount she was originally 
lent, then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her, 
along with 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the 
date they were paid by Mrs M, to the date the complaint is settled
b. If after the adjustments have been made there is still a balance to pay AvantCredit of UK, LLC should discuss arranging a suitable/affordable payment 
arrangement with Mrs M for the remaining balance
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of this loan, 
once any outstanding balance has been repaid
I understand the debt was sold to a third party in 2020. Therefore, AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should ensure the above direction is taken by either liaising with the third party or by buying 
back the debt.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit of UK, LLC to deduct tax from this interest. 
AvantCredit of UK, LLC should give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about AvantCredit of UK, LLC and I direct it to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman