DRN-1741778
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the fact that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) turned part of his 
travel insurance claim down following an injury he suffered whilst on holiday abroad. 
What happened
Mr B went on holiday with his wife in November 2018 but unfortunately, he had an accident 
and broke his elbow only a few days into the holiday. After receiving initial treatment from 
hospital Mr B says he was told by the doctor that treated him that he should return to the UK 
for medical treatment. Mr B then bought new flights and returned to the UK with his wife 
eleven days earlier than planned.
Mr B made a claim to UKI for his medical expenses which came to £200 and for about 
£1300 in travel expenses. UKI agreed to pay the £200 but didnt pay the travel expenses 
because it said Mr B hadnt contacted it to get its authorisation before cutting the holiday 
short. It also said it asked Mr B for medical evidence that showed that it was medically 
necessary for him to cut his holiday short (i.e. to curtail it) but he hadnt provided any. 
Mr B wasnt happy and complained to UKI. UKI  didnt agree to pay for the travel expenses 
for the reasons above but said it had delayed in handling the claim. UKI apologised for this 
and offered Mr B £100. 
Mr B wasnt happy with UKI's response and brought his complaint to our service. He told us 
he had tried calling UKI five times whilst abroad but the line was always engaged. He said 
he was acting on medical advice when he cut his holiday short and wouldnt have otherwise 
wanted to return early. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
thought UKI had acted reasonably in declining the curtailment claim. He also thought that the 
£100 offered was reasonable in respect of the delays so he didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided not to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment to him but Ill explain my 
reasons for doing so.
I have to decide whether UKI acted reasonably in the way that it dealt with Mr Bs claim for 
curtailment. Ive looked at what Mr Bs policy says about this when a trip has to be cut short 
in an emergency. It says that UKI will pay up to £5,000 per insured person for certain 
expenses (for example travel and accommodation costs) that have been paid if a trip has to 
be cut short for a number of reasons including injury. The policy also says that the insured 
must provide documents in support of a curtailment claim such as a medical certificate from a doctor and any other supporting documents UKI may ask for. It also says: You must call 
our emergency assistance service immediately and before you make any arrangements. 
And that We wont pay for any claim for costs as a result of having to cut short your trip that 
were not authorised by our emergency assistance service before you returned home
I think the above terms are relatively common when it comes to travel insurance policies so 
theyre not unusual and I also dont think theyre unfair. I think its fair that UKI would want to 
be made aware, where possible, of a policyholders intention to cut their holiday short in 
advance and that it would want to see medical evidence in support of such a claim. So I 
think, UKI can rely on these policy terms. 
Mr B has said that he tried to call UKI several times before returning to the UK but there was 
an engaged tone and so he was unable to speak to it. From what I have seen, UKI does not 
have any records of this and Mr B hasnt been able to provide any evidence of these calls 
either. On the basis of what I have been provided with there isnt enough for me to say that 
Mr B had authorisation from UKI before curtailing his holiday and returning to the UK. 
But regardless of whether Mr B had UKIs authorisation or not or whether he called UKI prior 
to his return, UKI indicated it may have still considered the claim if Mr B had been able to 
provide evidence from a doctor to show that he wasnt travelling against medical advice. I 
think this is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr B has said that he had an x-ray and was verbally advised by medical 
professionals to return to the UK to complete treatment. And I note he says he contacted the 
relevant hospital who told him they dont provide the medical information UKI asked him 
for. Ive seen a report from the hospital with Mr Bs diagnosis but it doesnt state whether he 
had been advised to travel back to the UK or not. In the absence of any further evidence, 
from what Ive seen Mr B hasnt been able to provide the evidence UKI asked for in order to 
show that it was medically necessary for him to cut his holiday short. 
Based on the above, I think UKI was acting within its policy terms when it turned down Mr 
Bs curtailment claim. 
I appreciate Mr B said he wasnt complaining about delays but Ive considered the £100 
offered to Mr B by UKI and I think that in the circumstances this is reasonable. As I said 
above UKI has settled part of the claim for medical expenses incurred, and so I wont be 
asking it to do any more. 
I appreciate Mr B will find this decision disappointing but for the reasons Ive given above I 
dont think this is a complaint I can uphold. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman