DRN-3145479
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as K has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limiteds 
errors in providing a like-for-like vehicle caused it financial losses, as well as inconvenience, 
following a claim on its commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Mr K, a director of K, has brought the complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
K held a commercial vehicle policy with Markerstudy. K claimed on its policy after one of its
vehicles was damaged in an accident. K didnt want its vehicle to be repaired until it was
assured of being provided with a like-for-like hire vehicle from the third partys insurer.
However, Markerstudy accepted the third-party wasnt at fault for the accident which meant 
K wouldnt be provided with a hire vehicle from the third-party insurer.
K also wasnt entitled to a like-for-like hire vehicle under the terms of its own policy.
However, Markerstudy agreed to provide a like-for-like hire vehicle while the repairs were
completed as a gesture of goodwill.
There were then a number of errors by both Markerstudy and the hire company which meant 
there was a three-day period when K was without the like-for-like vehicle. K complained to 
Markerstudy as it said the errors had caused it inconvenience as well as the financial loss of 
having to make other arrangements for deliveries on those days.
Markerstudy accepted they had made errors but said that, as the vehicle had only been 
offered as a gesture of goodwill, they wouldnt compensate for any loss. Markerstudy said 
they werent responsible for the actions of the hire company and offered K £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Markerstudys response, K brought its complaint to our service. It provided 
details of the losses it said it had incurred. This included around £800 in employees time 
trying to sort things out, as well as paying other companies to make the deliveries on its 
behalf.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 October 2021 where I explained why I 
didnt think Markerstudy needed to do anything further. 
I said that under its policy, K was entitled to a courtesy vehicle while its vehicle was being 
repaired. The terms and conditions of the policy say the aim of this is to keep K moving in 
the event of an accident and not to provide a like-for-like vehicle. So, I said that under the 
terms of its policy K wasnt entitled to a like-for-like vehicle. I understood from Markerstudy 
that K could have bought additional cover to guarantee a like-for-like vehicle if required. 
However, in order to resolve the claim, Markerstudy had agreed to provide a like-for-like 
vehicle as a gesture of goodwill.
I said that it wasnt disputed that errors occurred or that the errors led to a period when K 
was without a like-for-like vehicle. Therefore, I said I wasnt going to comment on those 
points further and would instead focus my decision on whether Markerstudy needed to do 
anything more to compensate for their errors. However, I thought that Markerstudy were 
responsible for the actions of the hire company who were acting as their agent in providing 
the vehicle.
Having considered what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I didnt think it would
be fair and reasonable for me to require Markerstudy to reimburse K for costs that occurred 
due to their errors, when those errors only occurred due to a gesture of goodwill in the 
context of K not having the cover it needed. I said that if K had the cover which provided a 
like-for-like vehicle, the circumstances would have been very different, and Markerstudys 
errors would then have been a breach of its obligations under the policy. But those werent 
the circumstances in this case.
Separately, I also hadnt seen enough to persuade me that all of the delivery invoices
provided by K were as a result of Markerstudys error. I said this because, the invoice for the
deliveries scheduled for 15 June 2020 is dated 12 June 2020 which was three days before
the courtesy vehicle was due to be delivered and before K was aware there wouldnt be a
vehicle on that date. Therefore, I thought it was unlikely this delivery was booked in as a 
result of Markerstudys error. 
Our investigator had asked K about this, but K said it was unable to provide more details 
about when deliveries were booked due to the length of time that had passed. Due to
this inconsistency, I said I couldnt fairly conclude that it was most likely that the other
invoices were for vehicles that were booked as a result of Markerstudys error either.
I did think Markerstudy and their agents errors caused K inconvenience and K has
provided a breakdown of what it thinks is appropriate to put things right. But given that the 
errors stemmed from a gesture of goodwill and that I wasnt persuaded by all of the invoices 
K provided, I said I didnt intend to require Markerstudy to increase its offer. I therefore 
intended to find Markerstudys offer of £150 sufficient compensation for the inconvenience 
they caused.
Neither K nor Markerstudy provided any further comments in relation to the merits of this 
complaint. Markerstudy confirmed that they were the correct insurer after some documents 
had indicated that another insurer was responsible. Our investigator let K know that 
Markerstudy is the correct insurer for the complaint to be brought against and I have 
amended the name of the insurer throughout the background to Markerstudy for ease of 
reading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither K nor Markerstudy have provided any further comments, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. I therefore remain satisfied that the £150 Markerstudy 
have offered is sufficient to compensate for what went wrong. 
My final decision
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited have offered K £150 compensation. I think this is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited should pay K £150 if they havent already done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman