DRN-4275315
The complaint
Miss P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund her money 
she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Miss P was looking to invest money and found an advertisement online for a company that I 
will call B. They claimed to be specialists in crypto trading and as this was of interest to Miss 
P, she completed a contact form. B contacted Miss P and she was convinced to transfer 
funds and make debit card payments into two crypto exchanges and then once there, the 
funds were used to buy crypto. The crypto was then transferred to B. The investments that 
were made appeared legitimate. Miss P was then convinced by B that investing more would 
maximise her potential profit.
Miss P made the following payments from her HSBC account as set out below. These funds 
were then sent on to B.
Transaction Date Payment type Merchant Amount
1 24/05/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £10,000
30/05/2022 Credit Skrill Ltd credit 986.63
2 02/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £15,000
3 08/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £15,000
4 09/06/2022 Debit card Binance £10,000
5 10/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £15,000
6 10/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £10,000
7 13/06/2022 Bill payment Binance £5,000
8 22/06/2022 Debit card Skrill Ltd £5,000
9 22/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £8,000
10 23/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £10,000
11 24/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £5,000
12 24/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £5,000
13 27/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £997
14 27/06/2022 Bill payment Skrill Ltd £996
Miss P later attempted to withdraw her funds from B but she was told that she had to make a 
tax payment. She looked into this further and at this point Miss P realised that she had been 
scammed. Our Investigator considered Miss Ps complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
She thought the first payment should have been significant enough to trigger HSBCs fraud 
prevention measures, and it should have stepped in at this stage to ask probing questions 
about the payments.
Our Investigator felt that, had HSBC stepped in at this time and asked relevant questions, it 
was likely HSBC would have been able to see the payments were most likely part of a scam 
and prevented any further loss. HSBC disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Miss P and HSBC set out what happened. What is in dispute is whether HSBC should 
refund any of the money Miss P lost because of the scam. 
Miss P has accepted she authorised the payments she made to B, so the starting point here 
is that Miss P is responsible for making the payments. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The first transaction I believe should have been considered unusual. It was a larger 
transaction than Miss P usually made and she had not transferred money to crypto 
exchanges before. I therefore think this payment should really have prompted HSBC to 
intervene. 
At this stage, HSBC should have stepped in and asked Miss P in depth questions to find out 
what the payments related to. Had HSBC stepped in at this point, I think its likely Miss P 
would have explained the reason she was suddenly making this payment.
I say this because when HSBC did intervene on 7 June 2022  Miss P, whilst clearly busy, did 
give honest answers to the questions that the member of staff provided. She said she was 
sending funds to crypto exchanges to then forward the money on to an investment firm. Had 
she been asked further more probing questions, HSBC would likely have discovered that 
what Miss P was doing had all the hallmarks of a typical investment scam.
 
HSBC has explained that Miss P was not happy with the questions being asked on 7 June 
2022 and this suggests she would not have been forthcoming during an earlier call. But Miss 
P was at a stables and was clearly trying to deal with a horse whilst on the call. So I think 
Miss Ps displeasure with the call was more because of the timing of the call rather than 
because of what was being discussed. Also, despite this, she did answer honestly the 
questions that she was asked.
 
So overall, I am satisfied that HSBC should have intervened earlier than it did. Had it done 
so, and asked sufficiently probing questions, I think it likely would have uncovered that Miss 
P was probably being scammed and it could have warned her about this.
Im satisfied that a warning to Miss P from her trusted bank would probably have alerted her 
to the common issues arising in relation to cryptocurrency scams. I think this in turn, would 
have revealed the truth behind Bs representations. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that 
this would probably have stopped Miss P in her tracks. So, but for HSBCs failure to act on 
clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, I dont think its likely that Miss P would 
have continued to make the additional payments.
 
HSBC has mentioned that Miss P selected the reason large purchase when making the 
first payment when its online system prompted her to enter a reason for the transaction. 
HSBC says that this shows that Miss P intended to mislead it. But I dont think that this 
counts as being deliberately misleading. Technically speaking Miss P was making a large 
purchase of a cryptocurrency. I dont believe this demonstrates that Miss P would not have 
been forthcoming during a call.Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their actions. In this case, I do not think that Miss P was to blame for what 
happened and I havent seen anything to suggest that she had foreseen the risk of this sort 
of harm occurring, or indeed any harm. I do not think Miss P could have foreseen the risk 
that the company she was dealing with were in fact scammers and the trading account she 
was viewing was likely to be a simulation. I also cant see there were any credible warnings 
in place about B at the time Miss P started making the payments. So, in the circumstances, I 
do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Miss P should share 
blame for what happened.
I note that HSBC has said that the loan that Miss P took out to fund transaction 9 was 
probably taken out with Miss P selecting an incorrect reason for taking out the loan. I have 
looked at the loan documentation and it does not say the purpose for the loan. I can see that 
the loan company in question does allow other as a loan purpose, so overall I dont think 
there is enough for me to say that Miss P misled the loan provider. So I dont think a 
deduction is appropriate given the overall circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should do the following:
Refund all of the transactions. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). Interest should not be added to the 
£15,000 she borrowed from her brother and £5,000 she borrowed from her mother.
Miss P took a loan to fund disputed payment 9. So in addition to refunding that 
payment, HSBC should pay the interest accrued, at the loan rate, from the date the 
loan was taken to the settlement date (or date the loan was paid off).
In addition, upon evidence from Miss P, HSBC should add 8% simple interest per 
annum on the repayments she has made towards the loan, as but for HSBC's error, 
Miss P would otherwise have had that money.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as HSBC Bank, to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman