DRN-3952960
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont reimburse a credit card payment he says was 
made under duress. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr S says that in March 2020 he was about 
to leave his house for an urgent hospital appointment when he was approached by bailiffs 
from a company Ill refer to as P. He was told that he had an outstanding debt relating to a 
parking ticket which he needed to pay, otherwise his car would be seized. 
Mr S says that he was under pressure as he needed his car to get to hospital. So, he made 
the payment of £393 using his Lloyds credit card. But he says he made clear that he didnt 
agree with the debt and that he was under duress. Mr S says that his car at the time had 
been cloned and hed had other instances of problems arising from this. 
Mr S asked Lloyds to refund him saying this was a case of fraud and they declined to do so. 
In summary they said that Mr S had authorised the payment in question, so they didnt 
consider it to be fraud. They also considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(s.75) but said there was no evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by P. 
Lloyds said Mr S should take this up with the council who issued the original ticket. 
Mr S complained and when Lloyds maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Ive no reason to doubt what Mr S has said about his car being cloned. But my 
consideration here isnt about the actions of P or of his local council, its about whether 
Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. 
The starting point is that Mr S will generally be liable for payments made using his card that 
he has authorised. I can quite understand why Mr S made the decision he did back in March 
2020 to avoid having his car seized when he had an urgent appointment to attend. And I 
appreciate he said he was pressured and felt under duress. But for a payment to be 
authorised it just requires that the cardholder knows a payment is being made, and that the 
payment has been authenticated through the agreed process (in this case chip and PIN). 
And in these circumstances, by Mr S own admission, he made the payment. And I dont 
think the pressure / duress Mr S says he was under means this was an unauthorised 
payment  I consider this to be an authorised payment. This means that Lloyds didnt do 
anything wrong when processing the payment following Mr S using his card and PIN. 
Mr S says that the payment was fraudulent because the council had no business asking him 
for money in the first place. Normally a fraudulent payment is one that hasnt been 
authorised by the cardholder. And whilst I accept Mr S may be in dispute with the council 
about this, for the reasons stated above, I cant conclude that he didnt authorise the 
payment or that it was fraudulent. 
I also dont think there were any options (including s.75) where Lloyds could have 
successfully recovered the payment. Ive not seen any evidence to support that P didnt do 
what Mr S paid them for, that being the clearing of a debt against his name. And whilst I 
appreciate Mr S may feel that the debt wasnt his to pay, I agree that this is something hed 
need to take up with the entity who instructed P (who I understand to be the local council). 
Mr S also says that s.75 applies because P misled him saying there was a debt, when there 
was none. I dont agree that this amounts to a misrepresentation. P would most likely have 
had valid instructions from the council, and I dont think the payment would have been 
presented as being for anything other than clearing the debt. Again, it seems that if Mr S 
wasnt responsible for the parking ticket that caused this situation, this is something he 
should take up with the council. 
Overall, I dont think there is a reasonable basis upon which I can tell Lloyds that they should 
refund the payment. And despite my natural sympathy for the difficult situation Mr S finds 
himself in, Im not going to tell Lloyds to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman