DRN-1157752
 
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy he is being charged a fee for breach of contract by Omni Finances (UK) Ltd 
trading as Safe Claims Ltd (SCL) for a mis-sold packaged bank account (PBA) claim made 
over two years ago.
Mr Z is represented by Mrs Z for this complaint, but for ease of reading I've referred to Mr Z 
throughout my decision.
What happened
On 15 May 2017, Mr Z signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing SCL to pursue a 
PBA claim with his bank. The LoA said Mr Z's bank should deal direct with SCL. Mr. Z said 
he specifically chose, SCL as he was Polish and SCL was a Polish business.
On 23 May 2017, SCL sent the LoA to Mr Z's bank but it wasn't accepted. Mr Z's bank said it 
had sent its response to Mr Z. The letter didn't expand on the content of their response.
SCL said it asked Mr Z for the information he'd had from his bank. And that he'd be charged 
£150 fee for breach of contract if he didn't send it the letter his bank had sent him. SCL said 
Mr Z didn't send the information and so had charged its breach of contract fee.
Mr Z said he'd responded to all requests he'd had from SCL but anything he'd 
sent he'd disposed of a year after sending. And SCL hadn't been in touch with him until May 
2019, nearly two years later. Mr Z said he couldn't understand what the fee was for. 
SCL referred Mr Z to sections in its terms and conditions it said justified the fee. Mr Z 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked SCL to provide the relevant sections of the terms and conditions in a 
format that we could understand, but this wasn't sent to us. Our investigator said SCL 
couldn't charge its fee as it hadn't been able to show why it was charging the fee, and it 
hadn't been in contact with Mr Z. She also said SCL should pay Mr Z £50 for the trouble and 
upset this had caused him.
SCL hasn't responded so Mr Z's complaint has been referred to me as an ombudsman to 
decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
SCL hasn't responded to our requests for additional information. So, Ive considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  Having done, so I'm upholding this complaint, I'll explain why.
Mr Z in signing the LoA in May 2017 instructed SCL to pursue a claim for him with his bank.  
And although SCL has only sent the terms and conditions in Polish, I think Mr Z had agreed 
to providing all relevant information to SCL so that it could act as his representative.SCL said its fee was for a breach of contract as Mr Z  hadn't sent it the response he'd had 
from his bank. Mr Z's bank told SCL in June 2017 that it had responded to Mr Z, but I've not 
seen any evidence SCL asked Mr Z to send this information. I can see an invoice was sent 
for the £150 fee, dated August 2017, and several payments reminders were sent, the last 
being 25 September 2017. But I've not seen any evidence SCL contacted Mr Z again 
until May 2019. 
Mr Z said he'd replied to all requests for information when asked by SCL. And as 
SCL stopped sending further requests  or reminders after September 2017,  I've no reason 
to doubt this.  As I'd have expected SCL to have continued to try to find out Mr Z's bank's 
response or to recover its fee. But there was silence for several months. So, I think this 
would have led Mr Z to think his claim had been closed. And after 12 months had passed, 
safe for him to dispose of the paperwork relating to his claim. 
I haven't seen any evidence of work done by SCL before Mr Z signed the LoA in May 2017. 
SCL did send this LoA to Mr. Z's bank shortly afterwards but as outlined above this 
was rejected by them as they'd already responded to Mr Z. As I've not seen evidence of any 
other work SCL did I can't see what SCL did that was of any value to Mr Z's claim. 
Putting things right
So I don't think its fair or reasonable for SCL to charge its fee. And I think chasing Mr Z for a 
fee after several months without contact has caused Mr Z trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And I require Omni Finances (UK) Ltd trading as Safe Claims Ltd 
(SCL) to pay £50 to Mr Z for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2019.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman