DRN-4014736
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity)
denied her the opportunity to purchase units in certain funds through their platform.
What happened
Mrs W has said that she tried to buy units in a certain fund on Fidelitys platform in     
January 2021. Fidelity didnt allow this and so she complained, receiving a response on     
27 January 2021.
Mrs W then complained further in August and November 2021, about other funds that she
had not been able to invest into. Fidelity provided further responses following these
complaints, stating in August 2021 that that fund was also restricted for direct clients. They
responded in November 2021 explaining how they came to the decision to restrict
investment into certain funds for direct clients.
Mrs W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service in December 2021.
Fidelity objected to us looking at the initial complaint issues raised in January 2021 and that
particular attempt to buy shares. They said that Mrs W had brought that complaint too late.
An investigator looked into it and didnt think that the January issues had been brought to us
in time. She did however, think that this service could look at the purchase attempts and
complaint points raised in August and November 2021.
Mrs W didnt agree, she said that she had been unwell and this had stopped her from
bringing the complaint sooner. She also said that the complaint wasnt properly addressed
until the August and November 2021 replies. The case was passed to me and I determined 
that we could only consider the August and November complaint points. 
The investigator has considered these and didnt think we should uphold the complaint. She 
said that she felt Fidelity had made a reasonable business decision to restrict these shares 
for direct clients. She felt that the explanation given for the decision theyd made was fair. 
The case is now back with me to decide on its merits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ws frustration. She wants to be able to purchase the shares and units 
she wants, on the platform she uses. And I appreciate that as an experienced investor, she 
wants to be able to determine herself, if they are appropriate. 
However, Fidelity are not required to make all funds available for purchase on their platform. 
I agree that they have a duty to ensure funds available on their platform are appropriate and 
suitable for retail clients.
In regard to Mrs Ws complaint in August 2021 and that specific fund that wasnt made 
available to her, I have also considered whether they acted fairly here. Fidelity have said that 
the fund was reviewed by their own Asset Range Governance Committee (ARGC). They 
have said that this group meet monthly and have authority derived from the Fidelity board to 
determine the appropriateness of a fund for their platform. They have also said that 
customers such as Mrs W are able to refer funds to this group for consideration. 
In this particular case, the ARGC determined that this fund was only suitable for their Funds 
Network (FNW) platform, for advised clients. Whilst they havent given the exact reasons 
why this decision was made for this fund, they have explained the factors the ARGC 
consider. These include a high ongoing fund charge, the complexity of an asset, and the 
assets target market (detailed in their European MiFID template). The ARGC have clearly 
determined that for this particular fund an advisor is required to explain or assist with one or 
more of these factors. Whilst Mrs W may not require that, Fidelity have made a decision 
based on their direct client base as a whole and I think that is reasonable. 
In summary, Fidelity are entitled to make a legitimate business decision as to what funds 
they make available on their platform and for what classification of customer. Further, I agree 
they have a duty to ensure they are available appropriately. In this particular case, I think 
they have acted fairly and given a reasonable explanation as to how the decision was 
reached.  
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman