DRN-3337543
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down his claim under his 
van insurance policy for flood damage to his van.
What happened
Mr L has said that his van got stuck in the mud on a track and he had to leave it there in 
October 2019. The area it was in then flooded and Mr L has said flood water got into the 
van and damaged the gearbox and engine. He wasnt able to recover the van for around 
six weeks. But, after hed done this, he told his insurance broker about the issue and said 
he may not claim under his policy and just pay to have the van repaired. In the end, he 
decided to claim on his policy and submitted his claim to Ageas in April 2020. Mr L 
reported the damage to the van as occurring on 1 November 2019.
Ageas arranged an inspection of the van and the inspecting engineer provided a report. 
Ageas also obtained rainfall readings for a short period at the end of October and start of 
November 2019. Its internal notes showed it had noted there was no period of heavy rain 
or flooding in the period up to the point the damage occurred. Ageas then turned down 
Mr Ls claim. It said the engineer hadnt found any evidence of flood damage to the van.
Mr L complained to Ageas, but it wouldnt alter its decision on his claim. Mr L asked us 
to consider his complaint against Ageas. One of our investigators did this and 
concluded Ageass decision to turn down Mr Ls claim was reasonable.
Mr L diudnt agree with our investigator. He provided a further report on the damage and 
thought the evidence supported his argument that his van was damaged by flood water. 
He thought this meant Ageas should accept his claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy covers accidental damage to his van. This means if it was damaged by flood 
water Ageas should meet his claim. Ive seen the report provided by the engineer Ageas 
appointed and I dont think it is anywhere near comprehensive enough to support Ageass 
decision to turn down Mr Ls claim. The instruction listed by the engineer at the start of it 
doesnt refer to Mr L reporting damage to the gearbox and engine. This meant the 
engineer didnt comment on whether the gear box was damaged and, if it was, what the 
cause of this was. And he didnt comment on whether there was any damage to the 
engine, for example the wiring in it. All he commented on was the air filter, which he said 
was debris free and dry. I appreciate he did say he couldnt find any evidence of flood 
water being in the cab of the van, but I dont think there is any compelling evidence to 
demonstrate there was no damage to the gear box or wiring at the time Ageass engineer 
inspected it. This is because there is no specific comment in his report on the state of the 
gear box or the wiring. Also, the fact there was no water in the oil or air filter would be 
because the engine was never turned over whilst the van was in the flood.
Im also surprised by Ageass notes about the lack of heavy rain or flooding in the 
period leading up to the loss. I say this because it was clear from what Mr L had said 
that he couldnt be that specific on when the damage actually occurred. And there is 
extensive evidence on the internet of flooding in the area the van was left in during 
November 2019.
Mr L has provided a report from a local garage, which inspected his van in March 
2021. It has listed the following issues:
Vehicle will not run/start due to fuse box and wiring damage.
Front disc and pads and rear disc and pads severely corroded.
Gearbox gear selection not functioning.
Rear tail lift not working.
Under further investigation differential oil contaminated with water.
Items not checked due to vehicle unable to start/run - engine and other 
electrical components.
The garage concluded by saying that in their opinion the vehicle is beyond economical 
repair due to severity of flood damage.
I think this report is based on a much more comprehensive inspection and assessment 
than the one carried out by Ageass engineer. Ageas hasnt really disputed the garages 
findings. It has instead said that it is so long after the incident Mr L reported that further 
damage could have occurred to the van in the meantime.
I have noted Ageass comments. However, it is not Mr Ls fault that he wasnt asked to 
provide a report from a garage on his van prior to March 2021. Also, it is not his fault that 
the instruction given to Ageass engineer wasnt detailed enough and that he didnt carry 
out a full and complete assessment of Mr Ls van. So, I dont think Mr L should be 
penalised for the fact that the report he has provided is so long after the incident he has 
claimed for. In addition, the garage has identified flood damage and I think it is right to say 
that this couldnt have happened after Mr L made his claim, because of the places the 
vehicle has been stored since this time.
In view of what Ive said, I think there is sufficient evidence to show Mr L has a valid 
claim under his policy for damage to his van. And I think Ageas should settle this. It 
seems from what the garage Mr L asked to inspect his van has said that its not going to 
be economic to repair it. And Mr L has told me he has not bought a replacement vehicle 
as yet. This means
 under the terms of his policy  Ageas will be obliged to pay the market value of Mr Ls 
van at the time it was damaged less the policy excess. I think based on the extent and 
type of
the damage, the length of time the van has been left since it was damaged through no 
fault on Mr Ls part and what his garage have said, it is fair and reasonable for Ageas to 
write the van off and pay the market value, less the excess. It will then take possession of 
the damaged van. I appreciate Ageas might think the van can be economically repaired, 
but this seems highly unlikely to me and it would always have the option of having this 
done and selling it if it wanted to. So, it wouldnt then lose out.
The market value as defined in Mr Ls policy is the cost of replacing the van with the 
same make and model and same mileage. I can see from the valuation guides that the market value of the basic version of the van, without logos on the box, in November 2019 
was £7- 8,000. However, its been over two years since Mr Ls van was damaged. And 
as, in my opinion, Ageas incorrectly turned down Mr Ls claim due to an inadequate 
investigation, I think it is fair and reasonable for it to pay what it would cost Mr L to buy a 
replacement now, less the policy excess of £300. Ive checked the trade guides used for 
valuing vehicles and the current replacement cost is £9,227.
Mr L has said the box on his van has been vinyl wrapped, so that all his company logo and 
information is on it. And  because the tail gate is integral to this and the electrics on this 
are damaged, it wont be possible to move the box across to a new van. So I think it is fair 
and reasonable for Ageas to pay the cost to Mr L of having the box on his replacement 
van vinyl wrapped with his logos etc. This is because it represents part of the like for like 
replacement and is therefore part of the market value, as defined by the policy. Mr L has 
said he thinks the vinyl wrap cost about £2,000. But he will need to either provide a receipt 
to show what he paid for this or an estimate for having it done. And then I will award this 
amount in addition to the market value of a basic replacement.
Because Ageas turned down his claim Mr L was forced to pay for his van to be collected 
from Ageass salvage agent. Im not sure why it ever needed to go to them for it to be 
inspected, as it could easily have been inspected locally to Mr L or at his address. 
However, he should not have had to pay to bring it back. He paid £480 for this and he has 
provided a receipt, so I think Ageas should reimburse this amount with interest at our 
normal rate of 8%.
Ive also noted Mr L has had to pay to store his van, as he had no room to keep it as his 
address and he couldnt leave it parked on the road without it being taxed and insured. 
Hes provided a bill for storage up to 1 February 2021 of £1,140, which seems 
reasonable. And I think Ageas should either pay the garage thats been storing the van 
directly when they arrange collection or give Mr L the money to pay whatever the storage 
costs are by this point.
Ive also noted Mr L hired another van for the period 3 August to 17 October 2020. Hes 
explained this is because he had two vehicles. This meant when his claim was turned 
down, because he couldnt afford to replace the damaged van, he used his other vehicle 
to continue his business. But this broke down in August 2020 and he couldnt afford to 
replace it at the time. Because, he didnt have his second van, ie the one that was 
damaged, he had to hire a replacement vehicle for a short period of time. Im satisfied 
with Mr Ls explanation on this and it is clear this cost flowed directly from Ageass 
incorrect decision to turn down his claim. The cost of hire was £2,695 and Mr L has 
provided a paid invoice for this. And I think it is fair and reasonable for me to make Ageas 
cover this cost, plus interest at 8%.
I also think the inadequate inspection and consideration of Mr Ls claim, which led to it 
being turned down without proper justification, has caused him distress and 
inconvenience. Hes been without his vehicle to use for his business for nearly two years 
from when he reported it as damaged. Hes said the damaged vehicle brought in a lot of 
business because his company was advertised on it and when he left it parked in different 
locations people noticed this. So hes potentially lost business, but its not really possible 
to quantify this. Mr L has
also had the inconvenience of having to operate a business with one vehicle instead of 
two. So, I think a substantial payment for the inconvenience of not having this vehicle is 
warranted. Plus, there should also be some compensation for the distress Mr L 
experienced in having his claim unfairly refused. Ive provisionally decided £1,000 is fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint 
and make Ageas Insurance Limited pay the following:
£9,227 - plus the cost of the same vinyl wrap being added to the box as on Mr Ls 
existing van, in settlement of Mr Ls claim for his damaged vehicle.
£480 for the cost to Mr L of recovering his vehicle, plus interest at 8% per annum 
simple from 18 August 2021 when he settled it to the date of actual payment1.
£2,695 to cover hire costs, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from 17 October 
2020 to the date of actual payment.
The storage costs Mr L has incurred for storage his damaged vehicle up to the date 
Ageas collects it from the garage which is storing it.
£1,000 for distress and inconvenience.
I gave both parties until 9 March to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr L has come back and has commented on the award I made for distress and 
inconvenience. Hes said he would not want to go through what he went through for a lot 
more than Ive awarded. Hes also mentioned that, due to the van that was damaged 
being in storage, hes lost money through not having it for the advertising, let alone all 
the other duties. And hes asked me to take this into consideration. Mr L has also said 
hes paid the storage costs up to the date of the invoice hes provided. 
Mr L has also provided an estimate for the vinyl wrapping of the new vehicle he gets to 
replace the one that was damaged. This is for £2,145 plus VAT.  
Ageas came back to say it did not have any more comments or evidence to provide. 
I then asked Mr L to confirm the VAT status of his company. Hes said it is not VAT 
registered. With this in mind Id already told Ageas Id probably increase what I awarded 
for Mr Ls van to £10,000, to reflect the fact the valuation Id based my award on in my 
provisional decision didnt include VAT. But, I also had in mind Id managed to obtain a 
valuation from a further trade guide, which suggested that Mr L would need to pay 
around £10,000 to replace his van including VAT. 
Ageas hasnt provided any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate having the claim turned down was very stressful and inconvenient for Mr L and 
that he may have lost income as a result of his van being in storage. However, it is very 
difficult to know for sure whether Mr L did actually lose income, as there are a number of 
things that could have affected his business. And in view of this - and the fact we are an 
informal dispute resolution service - I think to make sure Mr L gets a fair and reasonable 
outcome it is more appropriate in this particular case to just award compensation for distress and inconvenience. I appreciate Mr L thinks he should get more than £1,000. But, I consider 
this to be a significant award and remain satisfied it is appropriate in his circumstances. 
As I have already explained, the amount I suggested Ageas should pay after the deduction 
of the £300 policy excess for Mr Ls van didnt reflect VAT. But, Ive also managed to get a 
valuation from another guide at £8,790, including VAT. So  taking an average of the two 
guides  I think a fair amount for the van is £10,000. This means after the excess is 
deducted, I think Mr L should receive £9,700 for the basic van. And  as hes provided an 
estimate for the vinyl wrap of £2,574, including VAT, I think Mr L should receive £12,274 in 
total in settlement of his claim for his van.
I see no reason to alter what I suggested Ageas should pay Mr L for recovery, hire costs and 
storage. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Ls complaint and make Ageas Insurance Limited pay the following:
£12,274 in settlement of Mr Ls claim for his damaged van. This on the basis the 
damaged van becomes Ageass property.
£480 for the cost to Mr L of recovering his van, plus interest at 8% per annum simple 
from 18 August 2021 when he settled it to the date of actual payment1.
£2,695 to cover hire costs, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from 17 October 
2020 to the date of actual payment.
The storage costs Mr L has incurred for storage of his damaged van up to the date 
Ageas collects it from the garage at which is storing it.
£1,000 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Ls complaint and I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
him what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Ageas Insurance Limited must tell Mr L if it has made a deduction for tax. And, if it has, how much 
its taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Mr L if asked to do so. This will allow 
Mr L to reclaim the tax from  Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.