DRN-4324324
The complaint
Mr B complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly refused a claim he made on 
his personal accident insurance and also that it didnt make it clear that a condition he 
suffers from meant he couldnt make a successful claim.
What happened
Mr B has a personal accident policy which is designed to pay out varying amounts of money 
if hes injured in an accident. Mr B had a fall and subsequently had a knee replacement. He 
made a claim for benefits related to his stay in hospital. Covea considered the claim but said 
it need not meet it because the accident hadnt been the reason for the knee replacement.
Mr B complained but Covea didnt change it position, so he asked us to review his complaint.
Our investigator thought Covea had assessed Mr Bs claim fairly because the medical 
evidence provided by Mr Bs doctor said the only reason for the surgery was osteo arthritis  
not the accident.
Mr B says thats unfair because no one told him he wasnt covered for pre-existing illness 
and that the accident made his condition worse, so Covea ought to meet his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr B has been through a difficult time and trust hes now recovered.
Im afraid I cant uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator gave. 
Mr B has a personal accident policy. Thats a type of policy meant to help after an accident. 
Mr B claimed for a daily amount to cover his stay in hospital  about £177 a day.
The policy terms and conditions say a benefit or part benefit will be paid if an accident 
worsens a pre-existing condition. In this case that would mean that Mr Bs fall made his 
already existing arthritis worse and led to the surgery. 
Covea says that in these circumstances they ask for a medical opinion about how much the 
accident affected the pre-existing condition. Mr Bs doctor responded to say that the only 
reason for surgery was the osteo arthritis. Osteo arthritis is a disease that worsens over 
time, and theres no suggestion from the doctor that this only developed after the fall. I think 
its reasonable for Covea to rely upon the medical opinion when deciding whether to meet a 
claim or not. Here there is no medically confirmed link between the accident and the 
subsequent operation, and I think Covea has applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
fairly.
Mr B says hes been paying for the policy for many years and no-one ever told him he wasnt 
covered for pre-existing conditions. But Mr B has a personal accident policy. Policies like this 
dont normally cover medical costs or pay benefits for illness, including pre-existing ones.  
If Mr B thinks he was sold a policy that didnt suit his needs he may be able to complain to 
the business that sold it to him. However, that wasnt Covea, so I cant comment on that in 
this decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman