DRN-4445446
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way AXA Insurance UK plc has handled a claim he made under 
his buildings insurance policy following a water leak.
Reference to AXA includes agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr P got in touch with AXA in April 2021 about a damp problem in his basement. 
AXA investigated and found a leaking pipe below the floor. I understand Mr P 
arranged to have this repaired by a different insurer in June. AXA then took steps to 
dry the affected area and schedule the building repairs.
By December 2021, AXA said there was a problem with the tanking, unrelated to the 
water leak, which wasnt covered because it was a pre-existing issue. So Mr P would 
have to deal with it himself. It thought the tanking was allowing water in, which meant 
the basement couldnt be dried, so AXA stopped the drying work. AXA said the 
building repairs would cost around £4,000, less the excess.
Mr P spent around £6,000 having the tanking put right in March 2022. He told AXA 
he was concerned there remained a leak and the pipework had corroded, which may 
lead to further leaks. AXA said Mr P should look into that himself. He employed a 
leak detection company who said there was a second leak  and the first one had 
only been temporarily repaired. It also noted moisture may be trapped in the structure 
of the building. The second leak was repaired.
AXA offered to settle the claim based on its earlier building repair valuation of £4,000, 
less a second excess due to the second leak. It didnt offer to pay for the leak 
detection or second pipe repair.
In July 2022, AXA agreed to visit Mr P to consider the claim further  but that didnt 
go ahead and he complained. He asked AXA to pay to deal with the pipework on the 
basis it was damaged by the original leak, pay for the tanking, as well as the costs 
hed incurred for leak detection and repairing the second leak.
AXA apologised the meeting was cancelled without informing Mr P and offered £100 
compensation. Mr P got back in touch with AXA after this to find out what the next 
steps were for the claim. When he received no response, he complained again. AXA 
didnt respond, so Mr P referred this complaint to this Service.
By January 2023, he began carrying out work to reroute pipework to avoid any 
further leaks in the basement, and make good the building damage, at a cost of 
around £25,000.
Our investigator thought AXA should reconsider the claim as it hadnt shown it would 
be fair to decline it. She also asked it to pay £300 compensation. AXA agreed to this. 
Mr P questioned whether this would meaningfully move things forward. And as hed 
carried out the work required to put things right, he asked for his costs to be met. He 
provided invoices for the work.
AXA considered the invoices Mr P provided. It said there wasnt enough information 
to explain what work had been done and why. It offered to settle the claim for around 
£4,000, based on its initial estimate of the costs involved.
Our investigator looked at things again. She said AXA should meet Mr Ps costs in 
full, plus interest, as she thought the claim was covered and hed been left to resolve 
the problem without AXAs input. She maintained it should pay £300 compensation.
AXA reiterated it didnt have enough information to make a fully informed assessment 
of the claim, but it was prepared to consider the claim further. It also noted there 
were relevant policy limits that may impact the settlement.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by escape of water, subject to an excess. It also 
covers the cost of tracing and accessing an escape of water, up to £7,500 per claim 
and repairing the cause of the leak, up to £250 per claim.
Theres no dispute the building suffered damage as a result of a water leak in April 
2021. AXA has accepted the claim and made an offer of around £4,000 to settle it. 
Thats based on the building damage as it was in September 2021. At that time, the 
property hadnt been fully stripped out and dried, theres since been a second leak, 
and Mr P has subsequently had work carried out. So I dont think that figure is 
relevant any longer. AXA has agreed to consider the costs submitted by Mr P, 
bearing in mind the policy cover noted above.
I know Mr P is concerned that leaving AXA to consider the claim involves the risk it 
will prolong things further and the communication problems he encountered may 
continue. I understand his concern given the way the claim has been handled so far, 
but I think thats the fair thing to do in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr P would like AXA to pay his cost of repairing the tanking, at around £6,000. I 
would only expect it to do so if the tanking was damaged by the escape of water or 
its repair was necessary in order to ensure a lasting and effective repair of the 
escape of water damage. AXA says the tanking damage was a pre-existing issue, 
but the only evidence its provided to support that position is a brief comment about it. 
Id expect to see a report, supported by investigation, to set out clearly and 
thoroughly a professional opinion about the tanking. I havent seen anything like that 
from AXA. However, neither have I seen any evidence from Mr P to challenge what 
AXA has said. So theres simply not enough information about the tanking for me to 
make a finding either way. As a result, I think its appropriate for AXA to consider it.Mr P would also like AXA to pay his cost for dealing with the pipework. I understand 
he had them rerouted as a more cost effective solution than repairing or replacing 
them, given theyre under a concrete floor. Again, I would only expect AXA to do so if 
the pipework was damaged by the escape of water or its repair/reroute was 
necessary in order to ensure a lasting and effective repair of the escape of water 
damage. I havent seen any evidence from either party about this. So, again, theres 
simply not enough information about the pipework for me to make a finding. As a 
result, I think its appropriate for AXA to consider it.
Mr P has also submitted costs for the reinstatement of the building. Any costs directly 
associated with putting right the damage caused by the escape of water should be 
covered. I would only expect AXA to pay any costs associated with making good 
following the tanking work if it pays for the tanking work itself. And the same for 
rerouting the pipework.
Given the lack of evidence, and the significant costs involved, Im not persuaded it 
would treat either party fairly for me to make a finding on these points. But I would 
expect AXA to investigate the points above promptly and fairly, and put a revised 
offer to Mr P to settle the claim.
There are some aspects of the claim that I think can be resolved now and limit the 
aspects that will remain outstanding.
The policy covers up to £7,500 to trace and access a leak. Ive seen that Mr P paid 
two invoices from the leak detection company  for £570 and £615. The first was 
paid on 31 May 2022. Mr P should confirm when he paid the other amount. I 
understand these costs were to locate the second leak, so theyre covered. AXA 
should pay these amounts to Mr P, plus interest as hes been without the money 
much longer than he ought to have been.
The policy also covers up to £250 to repair the cause of the leak. I understand Mr P 
paid to have the second leak repaired, although I havent seen an invoice for it. He 
should provide the invoice and evidence of when he paid it in response to this 
provisional decision. If so, Ill require AXA to pay up to £250 for it, plus interest.
If Mr P has any other trace and access and/or pipe repair costs, he should set them 
out in response to this provisional decision, with evidence.
Whilst there was a second leak, AXA said this didnt cause any additional damage. 
So I dont understand why it charged a second excess. Unless it can show additional 
damage was caused by the second leak, it should only register one claim and charge 
one excess. This should be taken into account when settling the claim.
Mr P has raised a concern that the first pipe repair was unsatisfactory. That wasnt 
carried out by AXA but by another insurer providing home emergency cover. Any 
concern about that repair or any costs which have flowed from it should be directed 
to the other insurer, not AXA.
AXA has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. That includes progressing the 
claim at a reasonable pace, keeping the policyholder updated regularly and with 
meaningful information, and guiding them through the claim process.
Ive reviewed the history of this claim and thought about the way AXA handled it. Having done so, Im not satisfied it fulfilled that duty. Ill explain why.
The claim is currently around two and a half years old. Yet, as above, AXAs position 
on the key issues is unclear. I would usually expect a claim of this nature to be 
resolved significantly quicker than this. Bearing in mind the scale of the problem and 
the complexity of resolving it, I think six months would have been reasonable. That 
means two years of avoidable delays. During much of that time, the damage 
remained and the basement couldnt be used as normal. It had been decorated to a 
high standard and was used frequently by the family, so that caused disruption to 
them for a prolonged period of time.
During the claim, there has been poor communication from AXA, such as not 
responding to Mr P promptly, giving unclear or contradictory messages. And it 
cancelled the meeting in July 2022 without telling him. Looking over the claim notes, I 
can see many different members of staff worked on the claim at different times but 
seemingly without awareness of the history of the claim. That led to avoidable 
problems. Some left notes saying the claim needed a thorough review, which is fine 
in principle, but that review didnt happen. Because responsibility wasnt taken for 
progressing the claim promptly and fairly, Mr Ps claim experience was significantly 
more distressing and inconvenient than it ought to have been.
AXA offered £100 for missing the appointment. And it later agreed to pay the £300 
our investigator suggested. But I dont think these amounts go far enough to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience to Mr P as a result of AXAs poor handling. I consider 
a total of £1,000 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Any 
compensation amounts already paid can be deducted from this total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P responded to make a number of comments. Ill take each one in turn.
Mr P said the original leak was located and repaired temporarily by AXA  not 
another insurer as Id said. Ive looked again at the file, and I dont agree.
AXA referred Mr P to his home emergency insurer to find and repair the leak. Whilst 
that insurance is part of the overall H branded product Mr P had, the home 
emergency cover is a separate policy provided by another insurer. I cant name them 
here, but its set out in Mr Ps renewal documents. So I remain satisfied that any 
problem related to the first pipe repair isnt something I can hold against AXA.
Mr P said he wasnt asking AXA to pay for the tanking as it was a repair to pre-
existing damage. Hes asking AXA to pay for the pipework and building repairs, 
which cost around £25,000. Im sure AXA will take that into account when 
considering how to settle the claim fairly.
Mr P said hed provided evidence from the leak detection company which showed the 
pipework had been corroded by the two leaks  so its repair or re-routing should be 
covered under the escape of water section of the policy.
Whilst the pictures in the report do appear to me to show corroded pipes, the report 
doesnt say the pipes have been corroded  nor what the cause of any such corrosion might be. I agree with Mr P that the reports mention standing and/or 
trapped water. But a link isnt drawn between the water leaking from the pipe and the 
damage to the pipe. Its possible the pipes were damaged before the water leak. So, 
as it stands, its not clear that the pipework was damaged by the escape of water or 
its repair/reroute was necessary in order to ensure a lasting and effective repair of 
the escape of water damage. But the possibility remains, which is why I think AXAs 
suggestion to consider it further is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr P asked me to reconsider whether it would be fair to let AXA investigate the 
outstanding points and make a revised offer. I remain satisfied it would be fair for it to 
do so in this case. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I think the lack 
of evidence in favour of either party means it would be unfair for me to make a finding 
on this. AXA has offered to consider the settlement further and Im satisfied thats a 
reasonable way forward. But I remind AXA that it must do so promptly and fairly.
AXA also responded with a number of comments, so Ill take those in turn too.
AXA said it had paid £250 toward the pipework re-route. But it didnt think it should 
pay anything further for the pipework as it thought the work to re-route it was a 
preventative measure.
This means its paid up to the policy limit for the repair of a leaking pipe. However, 
the remainder of the cost of the re-route might be covered, at least to some extent, in 
other ways. If trace and access costs were or would have been incurred to carry out 
the repair, theres also cover for that. Or if, as Mr P argues, the pipework was 
damaged by the escape of water or its repair/reroute was necessary in order to 
ensure a lasting and effective repair of the escape of water damage, theres also 
cover for that. I havent seen any evidence to show these possibilities have been 
ruled out, so AXA will need to think about them as part of considering what a fair 
settlement offer would be.
AXA said there was no resultant damage from the second leak, so it wouldnt log a 
second claim. But it would charge a second excess as a second loss was being 
claimed for. It would do this because the policy limits for a repair and trace and 
access apply per claim, not per leak. It said it would typically take a pragmatic 
approach based on what would be more beneficial to the policyholder.
I would like AXA to keep that approach in mind when it considers how to settle the 
claim. Depending on the outcome of AXAs considerations, it should go on to 
consider whether a second excess, which would give rise to a second set of policy 
limits, would be beneficial in this case, and factor that into its revised settlement offer.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I remain satisfied the remedy I 
set out is fair in the circumstances.
The next steps are for AXA to consider the claim settlement, bearing in mind the work Mr P 
had carried out  for around £25,000  the potential ways it could be covered, and the 
possibility of a second excess and set of policy limits. And to make the payments noted.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK plc to:
Consider the claim settlement, as set out above.Pay £570 for leak detection.
Pay interest on this amount at 8% simple per year, from 31 May 2022 to the date of 
settlement*.
Pay £615 for leak detection.
Pay interest on this amount at 8% simple per year, from the date Mr P paid the 
invoice to the date of settlement*.
Pay a total of £1,000 compensation**.
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
**AXA must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman