DRN-2802051
The complaint
Mr M complains about that way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has settled a 
claim under his buildings insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to RSA also includes its agents. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr M noticed that part of the wall in his front garden had collapsed. This 
was following a storm in the area. Mr M made a claim to RSA.
RSA inspected the wall. It agreed that there had been a storm and that the damage had 
occurred during those storm conditions but concluded that the main reason for the wall 
collapsing was a natural breakdown of the materials which had been worsening over a 
period of time  it considered that the whole wall was unstable. So, it refused Mr Ms claim.
In February 2020, Mr M noticed that part of the wall in his front garden had collapsed. This 
was following a storm in the area. Mr M made a claim to RSA.
RSA inspected the wall. It agreed that there had been a storm and that the damage had 
occurred during those storm conditions but concluded that the main reason for the wall 
collapsing was a natural breakdown of the materials which had been worsening over a 
period of time  it considered that the whole wall was unstable. So, it refused Mr Ms claim.
Unhappy with that response, Mr M complained. RSA reviewed the claim again and agreed to 
settle the claim for the collapsed section of the brickwork only which it said was consistent 
with a one-off storm event. It also said the policy didnt provide cover for the cost of replacing 
undamaged items that form part of a matching set if damage occurs to a specific part of the 
item  so it wasnt liable for the remaining part of the wall. RSA initially made a settlement 
offer of just over £600 but increased this to £900 (£1000 less the applicable policy excess of 
£100) at a later date. Mr M disagreed with RSAs decision and said the claim should be met 
in full  a quote was obtained which put the cost for the works to repair the whole wall at 
over £5000.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and 
upheld the complaint. He said RSA had accepted that the damage had occurred as a result 
of a covered event - in this case a storm and that he also had a claim under the accidental 
damage section. But he said the wall was one continuous item with no breaks and therefore 
didnt agree that this should be considered as a pair or set. He also found that the whole wall 
was damaged and therefore there wasnt any undamaged parts being claimed by Mr M. So, 
he didnt think it was fair for RSA to rely on this exclusion. He said RSA should pay to rebuild 
the whole wall. He also recommended that it pay £100 compensation to Mr M for the stress 
caused to him throughout the claims process.
RSA disagreed with our investigators view. It provided a further opinion regarding the 
condition of the wall which said that it believed there was signs that the wall was failing prior 
to the storm event so RSA so it didnt think it needed to settle the claim for the whole wall. As 
no agreement could be reached, the complaint had been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M made his claim for the damaged wall following a storm. His policy provides cover for 
damage caused by storms. There doesnt appear to be any dispute that a storm occurred, 
and that part of the wall collapsed following the storm. RSA has accepted the claim for the 
collapsed section of the wall as being caused by a one-off storm event and has agreed to 
pay for the repair of this section. What I therefore need to consider is whether RSAs 
decision to decline liability for the remaining part of the wall is fair and reasonable.
When considering the claim, RSA has relied upon an exclusion in the policy wording which 
refers to pairs, sets and suites. The relevant term states the following;
We will not pay for the cost of replacing any undamaged items which form part of:
a set (other than a pair)
a suite; or
any other item of a uniform nature, design or colour
when damage happens to a specific part or within a clearly identifiable area and 
replacements cannot be matched.
RSA has said that it is only liable to provide cover for the damaged area of the wall and 
doesnt have to consider repairing the remainder of the wall which didnt collapse in the 
storm. It says the wall has twisted and rotated making it structurally unstable and it believes 
the compromised foundations and pronounced lean of the wall are historic defects. RSA 
says these other parts of the wall would be considered as any other item of a uniform nature 
design or colour and therefore the exclusion detailed above means it doesnt have to pay to 
repair the whole wall. 
Ive thought about this point carefully, but Im not persuaded that the remainder of the claim 
can be declined based on this exclusion. This exclusion is in relation to undamaged items  
but it has been agreed by all parties that the remainder of the wall is now structurally 
unstable, meaning there are no undamaged parts. In addition, the wall is one continuous 
structure and so I dont think it is fair to say that the parts of the wall that havent collapsed 
are another item, as required by this exclusion. So, on that basis Im not satisfied that RSAs 
refusal to pay the full claim based on this exclusion is fair and reasonable.
Having accepted the proximate cause of the wall collapse was the storm, RSA is liable for 
completing an effective and lasting repair. This has been the longstanding approach of our 
service. In this instance, the information Ive seen suggests it wouldnt be possible to 
complete a lasting and effective repair by simply replacing or rebuilding the part of the wall 
with the collapsed brickwork - a view which appears to have been accepted by all who have 
inspected the wall. Im therefore persuaded that RSA needs to cover the costs to repair the 
full length of the wall.
Our investigator recommended that RSA pay Mr M £100 in compensation for the distress 
and upset caused. Mr M has explained how the situation has caused him a great deal of 
stress in trying to get his claim resolved. Any insurance claim will inevitably cause some 
inconvenience, but I do think the ongoing dispute over his claim and the delay to resolving this matter will have had a greater impact. So, Im persuaded that RSA should pay Mr M 
£100 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to him. 
 
Putting things right
RSA need to do the following:
Settle the clam for the full length of the damaged wall in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. If RSA chooses to do so it can provide Mr M with a cash 
settlement to enable him to complete the repair.
Pay £100 compensation to Mr M.
  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Im upholding this complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must put things right as detailed.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman