DRN-4274940
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Omnio EMI Limited holding her liable for transactions she says she 
didnt authorise.
Mrs M held a Vox Money account and card which was issued by Omnio EMI Limited. For 
ease, I have referred to Omnio throughout my decision.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs M noticed several transactions had been made from her account which 
she says she didnt make. She reported this to Omnio, but they held her liable for the fraud.
They said this was the fourth time Mrs Ms account had been compromised within seven 
months and therefore couldnt reasonably refund the transactions. They also made the 
decision to close her account and gave Mrs M 60 days notice. Mrs M complained to our 
service.
Our investigator reviewed things and agreed that Omnio had acted fairly. In summary, she 
said it was more likely Mrs M authorised the payments, and shed already received money 
back from the previous three fraud claims. Our investigator didnt think there was any 
explanation as to how the card details were compromised and says Mrs M is expected to 
take reasonable steps to keep her details safe. Our investigator also argued that some 
payments had been made from a recognised IP address, and as the payments were made 
online and this wasnt out of character for Mrs M, she thought Omnio was fair to hold Mrs M 
responsible.
Mrs Ms representative, on behalf of her, disagreed. In summary, he explained that Mrs M 
was elderly and had health vulnerabilities and he asked for the evidence relating to the IP 
address. He wanted to know what investigation had been done on any third-party individuals 
who could have accessed Mrs Ms details and said he had now taken control of Mrs Ms 
finances to avoid this happening again in the future.
As a decision couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman at our 
service to review. She reached out to Omnio for some further information and they 
responded with an offer of settlement. Their offer was to reimburse Mrs M the monthly fees 
she has been charged since her account has been blocked to date and return the remaining 
funds in her account which equates to £117.20.
In February 2023, the ombudsman issued her provisional decision. In summary, she said:
She felt it wasnt a clear-cut case, and there were indications that Mrs M may have 
carried out the transactions herself; or allowed someone to carry them out on her 
behalf.
On balance she felt it was likely that Mrs M didnt authorise the transactions, asked 
for the money to be returned, along with 8% simple interest per annum.
She was satisfied that it was reasonable for Omnio to close Mrs Ms account
Omnios offer to refund the account fees to return the funds was fair.
As Omnio had held her liable without clear-cut evidence, this will have added to the 
distress caused by the fraudsters. She suggested Omnio pay Mrs M £250 
compensation to reflect this
Mrs M, nor her representative, responded to the provisional decision. 
Omnio did respond and disagreed. In summary, they said;
Omnio doesnt fall within the scope of the Consumer Credit Act. Theyre not obliged 
to refund disputed transactions where its apparent the consumer has acted 
negligently or been taken advantage of. They think Mrs M should recover the 
disputed funds through criminal or civil matters.
There is clear evidence Mrs M hasnt taken reasonable steps to keep her 
personalised security credentials safe. The examples they gave include;
oMrs M would have received a new 16-digit card number, expiry date and 
CVV. Given the overall low values of fraud and pattern of compromise, they 
feel the activity displays someone who was known to Mrs M. Omnio stated it 
was extremely unlikely, if not impossible, a criminal would go to such efforts 
to target one individual with such low values.
oThey believe the fraudster would continue to attempt to use the card  
however the attempted transactions ended shortly after it was reported, and 
this strengthens their thoughts that the person was close to Mrs M.
oThe merchants appear the same on all instances of disputed transactions and 
therefore the perpetrator would have had to login and update the payment 
details on the merchant website.
Mrs M has had four cards with Omnio and only two merchants have been unique to 
all four cards. 
Even if Mrs Ms card details had genuinely been compromised, an unauthorised 
individual wouldnt have access to all of the information so they have concluded only 
someone close to Mrs M could carry out this activity. Omnio believe Mrs M failed to 
keep her security information secure.
Section 10 of their terms and conditions state that customers must keep their anti-
virus software up to date  so if Mrs Ms card details were compromised through a 
virus on one of her devices, she has breached the terms.
My point on the 11 transactions which had been declined is incorrect and they 
believe these relate to subscriptions Mrs M set up and cancelled herself.
The remaining £117.20 has been available for Mrs M to withdraw, however to date 
Omnio havent received relevant bank details so they find it unfair to have to pay 
interest on this amount.
As the ombudsman who issued the provisional decision is unavailable, the case was passed 
to me to decide. I agreed that the complaint should succeed, but my reasoning was different. 
I issued a second provisional decision which said: 
While Omnio have raised further arguments, I havent received any additional evidence to 
persuade me that the disputed transactions in question were authorised by Mrs M. Ive 
explained further below. I dont see its necessary to address each and every point in order 
to meet my statutory duty to determine this complaint.
Omnio are correct in that they are not held to the Consumer Credit regulations as they are 
an electronic money provider and therefore dont issue credit. So, this act hasnt played a 
part in my thinking. However, they are a payment service provider to Mrs M, so the relevant 
regulations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Ive also considered the 
terms of the Omnio account, along with what I consider to be good industry practice. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that Omnio as a payment service provider is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, in line with 
this services approach, including the PSRs, if I find it more likely than not Mrs M didnt 
authorise the transactions, Omnio should refund the disputed transactions.
I dont feel Omnio have provided enough to show Mrs M authorised the transactions herself. 
Omnio have justifiably raised several points that could suggest Mrs M authorised the 
transactions herself  or gave permission for somebody close to her to use her card. 
However, she has denied this. There is a strong argument that somebody close to her is 
making the transactions without her knowledge.
Omnio have argued that its not realistic for a criminal to go to the lengths they have in Mrs 
Ms case for such low values. But that isnt evidence to confirm that Mrs M authorised the 
transactions. Mrs M may have taken advantage of her  and there are several ways this 
could have been done. An individual could have had ample opportunity to take Mrs Ms card 
and replace it without her knowing, which likely would only take seconds if all was needed 
were the card details.
Potentially Mrs Ms card details could have been compromised online. Omnio have said Mrs 
M is under a duty to keep her anti-virus software up to date as per their terms and 
conditions. I have considered this term and I dont think its fair to rely on such a significant 
and onerous condition. Theres also no evidence that Mrs Ms card details were intercepted 
through the result of a virus  although it is possible, the details could have also been 
intercepted through a genuine merchant. The fact is here, there is no evidence to say whats 
happened either way. And therefore, its in my remit to say what I think is most likely in the 
circumstances.
Omnio feel a fraudster would continue to attempt to use the account  and as the activity 
stopped shortly after the disputed transactions were raised, they believe this is enough to 
show somebody close to Mrs M carried out the transactions, if not herself. Again, I dont 
consider this is enough to persuade me however that Mrs M gave permission for somebody 
else to use her card.
Omnio have suggested the 11 declined transactions referred to in the ombudsmans 
provisional decision relate to subscriptions Mrs M set up and cancelled. But based on the 
evidence Omnio have sent, the declined transactions consist of the following:
Date Description Status Money Out
05/07/2021 Argos Ltd, Internet Declined £556.00
05/07/2021 Argos Ltd, Internet Declined £417.00
05/07/2021 Argos Ltd, Internet Declined £219.00
05/07/2021 Argos Ltd, Internet Declined £139.00
05/07/2021 Argos Ltd, Internet Declined £139.00
05/07/2021 Argos Ltd, Internet Declined £139.00
05/07/2021 LIM*ADD BALANCE Declined £10.00
05/07/2021 LIM*ADD BALANCE Declined £10.00
05/07/2021 Just eat Declined £19.67
05/07/2021 Monzo Declined £100.00
05/07/2021 Monzo Declined £100.00
Having considered these transactions again, it looks like the party using the account 
repeatedly had trouble accessing it, with payments being declined  all on the same dates 
as the payments in dispute. Therefore, I dont consider these declined transactions are 
linked to subscription services Mrs M cancelled herself but more than likely an unauthorised individual attempting to use Mrs Ms card without her permission and trying to carry out as 
many transactions as possible without Mrs M noticing.
Mrs M has denied making these transactions or giving someone permission to do so. And 
Ive seen nothing from the merchants involved to suggest she did. Based on the evidence 
available, Im satisfied she more likely than not didnt authorise these transactions. 
Omnio have said theyre not obliged to refund transactions where it is apparent the 
consumer has acted negligently. However, regulation 77 of the PSRs states that 
(4) Except where a payer has acted fraudulently, the payer is not liable for any losses 
incurred in respect of an unauthorised payments transaction
(d) where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract.
Distance contract in this clause generally means a contract entered in to for goods or 
service when not physically present with the merchant  although there are some 
exceptions, for example financial transactions or gambling. The full definition is given in the 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. 
This is clear in the relevant regulations that the negligence doesnt play a part in deciding 
liability for unauthorised payments in relation to a distance contract.
In this case the majority of the payments are marked as internet payments, so are likely to 
be distance contracts. Given the nature of the businesses I do not see it likely these will be 
excepted contracts. As Im satisfied that these payments were unauthorised, I dont see that 
Mrs M should be held liable for them.
The other transactions  which are of an unknown type  seem to plausibly be distance 
contracts. But as I cant be sure, and for completeness sake, Ive considered Mrs Ms 
obligations to Omnio in relation to her security credentials. As mentioned Omnio believe she 
acted negligently with her payment instrument. But in section 77 of the PSRs explain that 
she can held liable for unauthorised transactions if she has failed to in her obligations to 
keep her security details safe either with intent or gross negligence. The terms of the 
account also refer to gross negligence.
Im not persuaded that Mrs M intentionally gave somebody else her payment instrument  
she denies doing so and nothing Ive seen from Omnio persuaded me she did.
So, Ive considered Omnios position that Mrs M has behaved negligently. But to hold her 
liable they need to demonstrate she has been grossly negligent. Our service follows case 
law in believing that the bar for gross negligence is much higher than simple negligence. For 
me to be satisfied that Omnio can hold her liable for these transactions, Id need to be 
satisfied that she not only appreciated an obvious and blatant risk, but also disregarded that 
risk.
Ive considered this carefully, as Mrs M had been the victim of similar fraud several times 
before. There is an argument that reasonably she should have taken more care with her 
payment details and could have recognised a risk of somebody intercepting or copying them. 
But Im also mindful that Omnio issued her with a new card after the last incident, which 
suggests to me they didnt see this as such a significant risk either. Im not persuaded she 
acted with the very significant degree of carelessness that would be considered gross 
negligence. So, if these unknown transactions arent distance contracts, I still dont agree 
that Mrs M should be liable for them.As such I consider that the disputed funds should be returned to Mrs M. As she has been 
without the use of these funds then any refund should also include 8% simple interest per 
annum, from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Ive reviewed the information on the account closure, and like the previous ombudsman Im 
satisfied this was in line with the terms of Mrs Ms account. Omnio havent been 
unreasonable here.
However, I agree that Mrs M should be paid compensation for Omnios handling of her 
dispute. This will have been a very distressing experience for her, but I accept most of this 
distress will be down to the actions of the fraudsters. But I dont see it was reasonable for 
Omnio to hold her liable, when the PSRs are clear the distance contract transactions should 
have been refunded earlier. This left her short of funds, and Omnio were aware she was a 
vulnerable individual.
Omnio have offered to refund Mrs M the monthly fees she would have been charged since 
her account was blocked. This is reasonable in the circumstances. Omnio should refund 
these amounts to Mrs M and add 8% simple interest for the same reasons as explained 
above.
Omnio have rightly raised that they shouldnt be required to include interest to the amount 
held in Mrs Ms account which has been available for her to withdraw. I havent seen any 
evidence to show when Mrs M was made aware the money was available to her  so I 
consider the 8% interest should be paid on the amount held from when it was blocked up to 
when Omnio made Mrs M aware it was available. I dont consider interest should be paid for 
the time Mrs M hasnt supplied her bank details.
To put things right, I was minded Omnio should:
Refund the disputed transactions totaling £1,090.93. Omnio should add 8% simple 
interest per annum to this amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mrs M for the monthly fees she was charged from the date the account 
was blocked. Omnio should add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount from 
the date of the charge to the date of settlement.
Refund Mrs M the £117.20 held in her account. Omnio should add the 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of the block until the date they informed her the 
money could be withdrawn.
Pay Mrs M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of her 
dispute.
Mrs M accepted this as a resolution. Omnio disagreed and responded to say, in summary:
The PSRs allow them to hold Mrs M liable for unauthorised transactions on her 
account if she has failed to in her obligations to keep her security credentials safe 
with either intent or gross negligence.
There were only two merchants used across all the cards Mrs M had reported fraud 
on. The likelihood was either a virus on her computer, or alternatively she had failed 
to keep her security details secure.
The decision acknowledged there may have been ample opportunity to take and 
replace Mrs Ms card, which highlighted to Omnio that she had acted negligently.
That it is not within the Financial Ombudsman Services remit to discount the term 
saying her anti-virus software should be kept updated.
Mrs M had been grossly negligent by failing to keep her card details secure and not 
available for someone to obtain. That it was not justifiable to make assumptions about Omnio not seeing Mrs M as a 
risk when deciding whether Mrs M has been grossly negligent.
The 8% interest awarded was unreasonable as the complaint had been with our 
service for a considerable period.
I have reviewed the evidence afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions drawn in the provisional decision. I 
appreciate Omnio have asked for detailed responses to the complaint points raised in their 
response before a final decision is issued. I have noted the additional points raised by 
Omnio and considered them carefully. 
But my statutory duty is to consider the evidence available to me and determine the 
complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint. Im satisfied I have enough evidence to do so here. 
There seems to be no dispute that Mrs M didnt authorise the transactions herself, nor allow 
someone else to use the card. Im satisfied that these can be treated as unauthorised 
transactions under the PSRs.
The response from Omnio to the provisional decision didnt engage with my findings around 
the distance contracts. So, for the avoidance of doubt Im satisfied with my findings in 
relation to Section 77 on the PSRs. Paragraph (3) does refer to gross negligence, and this is 
what Omnio have relied upon in their response to the provisional decision. 
However, Paragraph (4), quoted in the provisional decision, makes it clear that except 
where a payer as acted fraudulently the payer isnt liable for losses associated with distance 
contracts. This is the section that expressly deals with distance contracts, and there isnt 
provision in this paragraph for gross negligence. This is the long standing approach our 
service has taken in relation to unauthorised distance contracts, and the industry standard 
across the payment industry. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs M has acted fraudulently, or that the payments were for 
excepted contracts. Im satisfied that the payments Omnio have confirmed were made online 
should be refunded to her. For Omnio to deny a refund of distance contracts on the grounds 
of negligence goes against both the regulations and what I consider to be good industry 
practice  and I find this to be unreasonable.
Omnio havent confirmed whether the additional transactions marked as Unknown were 
distance contracts or not. I think its more likely than not they were. But again, for 
completeness Ive considered whether its likely Mrs M was grossly negligent with her card 
details. And, as explained, the concept of gross negligence needs to go beyond simple 
negligence or carelessness. In my view, there needs to be not just acting with a significant 
degree of carelessness, but also a disregard for the risk involved. 
But here, there is no clear indication as to how Mrs Ms card or security credentials were 
compromised. The suggestions put forward by Omnio of access from an account with a third 
party website, or a virus on her computer, Im not persuaded would be grossly negligent. In 
any event Omnio havent produced any evidence to suggest a computer virus was involved 
in any way.Even if a criminal had been able to intercept the card details with a virus or malware, this 
would only allow the thief to carry out payments for distance contracts  which as Ive 
explained above would be refunded under the PSRs without consideration of gross 
negligence. As the PSRs already require Omnio to refund unauthorised distance contracts, 
its disproportionate and onerous to place the obligation of keeping anti-virus software up-to-
date on to the consumer. I dont agree with Omnio that its outside the scope of our service to 
consider the terms of accounts, and whether its fair to rely on them in the circumstances of 
the complaint.
Likewise, if someone had briefly taken her card and copied the payment details, the thief 
would likely only be able to enter into distance contracts. And the expectation there is that 
the payment service provider would refund them. Omnio have offered no evidence that 
further security information, such as the PIN, was used in making these transactions. So, 
Ive seen no compelling evidence Mrs M has been grossly negligent in respect to her 
personalised security credentials. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Omnio have been reasonable in declining to refund the 
transactions in dispute. Im satisfied that the relevant regulations, and good industry practice, 
would require them to be refunded in short order. Its right therefore the transactions be 
refunded.
Ive considered what Omnio have said about the 8% interest award. But Im also mindful 
here that this is money Mrs M has been without the use of. And it should have been quickly 
evident to Omnio that the money should be refunded. So, on that basis Im satisfied its fair 
for Omnio to pay the 8% simple interest award. And its also reasonable for Omnio to pay 
her compensation for the poor handling of her dispute.
The findings in the provisional decision on the account closure and return of fees havent 
been disputed by either party. I remain satisfied with these findings.
Putting things right
To put things right Omnio must:
Refund the disputed transactions totaling £1,090.93. Omnio should add 8% simple 
interest per annum to this amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mrs M for the monthly fees she was charged from the date the account 
was blocked. Omnio should add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount from 
the date of the charge to the date of settlement.
Refund Mrs M the £117.20 held in her account. Omnio should add the 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of the block until the date they informed her the 
money could be withdrawn.
Pay Mrs M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of her 
dispute.
If HMRC requires Omnio to deduct income tax from the above interest awards, then they 
should provide Mrs M with a certificate showing how much was deducted, if she should ask 
for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct Omnio EMI Limited to settle the 
complaint as above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman