DRN-3779975
The complaint
Mr S complains about unsuitable advice from Tuto Money Limited (Tuto ) to transfer his
pension.
What happened
Mr S said he was unhappy with the advice to transfer from his existing plan to a new plan
based on the advice from Tuto. He didnt think the advice was suitable for him.
Tuto said that it didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S wanted higher potential returns and
flexibility re income drawdown. The charges in his existing plan were higher and at that time
he could not transfer internally to a self-invested personal pension with his current provider.
All procedures were followed. The annual review the following year showed the fund value
increased even after the initial charge and management charges.
The investigator said that Mr S was charged almost 10% of his modest pension value for the
advice. Given this there needed to be clear evidence of benefit. While the projections
showed slightly higher growth could be achieved this was not guaranteed and didnt
outweigh the cost of advice. With such a small difference in growth rate it increased the risk
that the initial charges for advice were not earned back by retirement. While the new fund
charges were 0.5% less than his existing plan, they didnt have a significant impact on the
overall fund projection. It posed more risk to pay for the advice and go ahead than to stay
with his existing provider. She didnt think it would be likely that a switch would maximise
pensions growth. Mr S had complained that he had been advised to invest in plans that were
too high risk for his personal attitude to risk and capacity for loss. But the investigator didnt
agree and felt the investment was suitable for him.
While Mr S wanted increased flexibility, he had also said he didnt plan to retire for 14 years,
so there was no immediate need to use the funds and therefore a reason why access to
drawdown was necessary at that time. He could instead have made the switch closer to his
retirement date. If he needed cash urgently there were other options it could have discussed
with Mr S such as borrowing.
She could not see any other good reason to transfer and felt the advice was not suitable for
his situation at the time. She thought Mr S should have been advised to stick to his existing
arrangement which provided similar benefits including income in retirement, instead of
paying for advice.
Tuto didnt agree. It said the new fund had a lower fee  half that of the existing fund. The
investigator had agreed the fund was appropriate for Mr Ss attitude to risk and capacity for
loss. The charge of £995 was its minimum and after 1 year the fund had grown even after
the initial fee and annual management charge. He had a net growth of over 5% so there was
a clear benefit. The difference in fund charges would produce greater effect with time. Mr S
had no capacity for additional borrowing as confirmed in the fact find. It completed a loss
assessment and believed it was around £14.87 and the loss would reduce with time due to
the lower fees. It offered to pay £14.87 to settle the complaint.
Mr S declined the offer.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint. I said the following:-
The Financial Service Authority (now FCA  Financial Conduct Authority that regulates 
advice given by Tuto) published a report and checklist in 2009 for pension switching. The 
FCA were clear that the reasons for switching pensions (as is the case here) need to be 
sound in the context of the individuals circumstances at the time. The potential to be better 
off had to be enough to more than compensate for the risk that the consumer might end up 
worse off. So someone with a low attitude to risk would need to have a greater potential for 
gain without taking more investment risk than a consumer with a high attitude to risk. As we 
know Mr S had a low medium attitude to risk so the potential gains from switching needed to 
be greater to make up for the cost of the switch.
I considered a number of areas highlighted by the FCA in the light of Mr Ss circumstances 
at the time.
The pension report and switching report prepared by Tuto in 2016 said that Mr S was in his
early fifties and a full-time carer for his wife. They had adequate income for their
expenditure. But there was no income and expenditure assessment done and there was
reference to income from benefits  it is unclear whether this was the only source of income 
at the time. It said Mr S had a property worth around £120,000 subject to a mortgage worth
about 60% of its value but did not comment on how long remained on the mortgage term. It
said Mr S had further debt of around £15,000, no savings or investments or other sources of
income and no emergency fund. Overall this showed that Mr S didnt have any safety nets in
the form of savings, other than his pension and therefore his resilience to unexpected
financial challenges was low.
I could see from the papers that his existing plan started in early 2002, was paid up (around 
2012) and was a stakeholder pension plan worth around £10,600 at March 2016. He was 
invested in the providers Managed Pension Fund which the papers said offered a
balanced lifestyle profile. The papers did not list the charges for the old scheme. The
information on the plan details sent to Tuto, note that the provider offers products that allow
your client to access their benefits flexibly.
While charges were not listed, Stakeholder pensions offered low and flexible contributions,
capped charges and a default investment strategy which could be helpful if the member did
not want to make investment decisions. There was a legal limit on charges of 1.5% per year 
in the first 10 years and then 1% after that. As we know the plan was started in 2002 and
became paid up in 2012, 2016 was more than 10 years since the start and I would expect
the charges to be capped at 1% and prior to that 1.5 % (so it was difficult to understand the
suggestion in the report that charges could be 1.6%).
Mr S is listed as having no investment experience but it stated he needed immediate access
to the money so he was prepared to take a risk for a potentially higher return. His risk profile
was assessed as low medium and Tuto said he had a long-term period for investment as he
intended to retire in around 14 years time.
It wasnt clear to me how the long-term investment strategy fit the suggested need for
immediate access. Further Mr S was 50 at the time of the advice so immediate access would
not have been possible for another 5 years when he reached the minimum age to access his
pension, 55.
The objective of the review was said to be for higher potential returns, flexible/incomedrawdown (which Tuto said was not available under the current plan), lower charges and
ability to leave funds to his wife on his death. In a letter dated 16 March 2016 from Tuto to
Mr S it also said its advice was to enable it to procced and move his pension to a more
modern and cheaper plan, which will also allow you to contribute and take flexible benefits
when you are 55.
The FCA guidance suggests various issues should be considered. I have considered some
below, in the light of this context.
Consider a stakeholder
Tuto was obligated to consider stakeholder pensions as an alternative to the new plan
proposed. However Tutos notes do not consider one and say there is insufficient
information. However it may be that as Mr Ss current plan was a stakeholder this
comparison was in effect being undertaken in the review  but the report doesnt say that.
Illustrations
The FCA indicates that illustrations of future growth used to compare the benefits of
switching, should start with the value after all penalties and adjustment had been applied
from the existing plan and should be projected to retirement age. This is because if theres
only a short period before the consumer intends to retire, the projected growth might not
offset the impact of the costs deducted for the advice to switch. But Tutos report suggests
there werent any exit penalties by the old pension scheme. But there were additional
charges payable to Tuto for their advice (£995).
It was important to be clear that the new pension had a realistic chance of growing fast 
enough to overcome those costs in a reasonable amount of time. Growth projections to an 
age later than his proposed retirement age, could have the effect of spreading the costs of 
transferring over a longer time period, and make them look lower on average per year.
I needed to consider how the information was presented and whether it was realistic to 
expect Mr S to remain invested until any later age shown in the report. It wasnt clear to me 
whether the initial fee of £995 had been taken into account in producing the growth 
projections. There was a separate table showing that the total charges were projected to a 
later retirement date of age 75, whereas Mr S had said he would retire ten years earlier at 
65. So there seemed to be a mismatch and the later age of 75 had the effect of spreading 
the charges over a longer period and making the impact seem less. The Tuto report showed 
the estimated impact of charges for year one, was £1024.41. Given the starting plan value 
was around £10,600 this is a significant charge and represented around 10% of his plan 
value at that time. Tutos analysis suggested it could take between 5 and 10 years before 
this cost is recouped.
Ongoing costs
I also needed to consider if the illustrations took into account the future charge structure
including charges deducted to pay for commission or fees of Tuto for making the switch. The
FCA indicated that simply comparing new and old charges was not enough as it needed to
reflect what was lost in the switch. I have therefore considered what was said about the
charges of £995 for the switch report and the annual fee of 0.3% payable to Tuto.
The report by Tuto contained a pension plan comparison of charges. It said that the charges
on the new plan were lower than the old plan. It said the new plan costs 0.8% per annum 
with the existing plan costing 1.5 or 1.6% depending on growth. It then suggested that Mr S 
would save 0.8% per annum. But it said the table did not include the cost of advice in the 
agreed fees section of the report (£995 and 0.3% per annum).
It wasnt clear to me how the old plan charges could be as high as 1.5 or 1.6%, given that itwas a stakeholder plan that was more than 10 years old and charges should therefore be
capped at 1%. Even before it was 10 years old the cap was 1.5% so a charge of 1.6%
should not be possible. But even if I was wrong and the stated charges of 1.5 or 1.6% are
correct, Tuto said that its comparison of the costs of the two plans did not include Tutos
charges (£995 and 0.3%).
Further the charges of 0.8% were made up of the new providers annual management charge
of 0.30% (plus investment related charges of ) 0.5% (assuming investment in the Aviva Ins
Multi-asset Fund III S14 (GB00B8DS2225)). If Mr S was advised to change fund this charge
could change.
With Tutos annual fee of 0.3% in addition to the 0.8%, the total charges in the new plan 
were actually 1.1% not 0.8%. So in reality the difference between the charges in the new 
plan (1.1%) and old plan (suggested to be 1.5 or 1.6) was only 0.4 or 0.5%. If I was correct 
and there was a stakeholder cap on charges in the old plan of 1%, the new plan was actually
0.1% more expensive than the existing plan.
So in summary it wasnt clear to me that the new plan was cheaper and indeed may be more
expensive. Even if it was cheaper the difference in ongoing charges was small at 0.4 to
0.5%. I applied the FCA suggestion that the potential to be better off had to be enough
to more than compensate for the risk that the consumer might end up worse off (due for
example to the initial reduction of around 10% to pay for the switching advice of £995). On
balance I didnt think there was a clear enough potential to be better off either because the 
new plan was actually more expensive than the old one or because the saving was relatively 
small (0.4% to 0.5%) and it would take some time to recover the initial charges of £995 (Tuto
suggests between 5 and 10 years). The chance to better off has to more than compensate
for the risk that the Mr S might end up worse off due to charges and investment risk. On
balance for the reasons given, I didnt think there was.
Flexibility
The FCA had been clear that just because a new plan offered more flexibility, a wider range
of funds than the existing pension and would enable benefits to be taken by way of income
drawdown, did not make the advice to switch suitable, even if these are correct and
attractive features. That is because they may not be needed at that time, so should not be
recommended.
The report suggested that Mr Ss existing pension only offered 12 funds whereas the new
provider pension offered more than a 100 funds. But notes on the old plan reflect a total
return of fund on death and no income drawdown.
But Tuto only advised an investment in one fund so there wasnt any use of the wider range
of funds. The ability for Mr Ss wife to inherit on his death already existed in his then current
plan. Mr S could have switched for flexibility at a much later date closer to or at retirement
and the old plan noted that the provider could provide such options. So it did not seem that
any of these factors provided good reasons to switch.
Attitude to risk
The FCA questions whether the investments recommended are in line with the consumers
attitude to risk. And whether the consumer can afford to take that amount of risk. It suggests
an adviser should not encourage a consumer to take more risk than they reasonably wanted
or could afford to take, in order to make the advice given more suitable.
I do not know the risk profile of the fund in the old pension scheme. Tuto suggested Mr S 
had a low medium attitude to risk and suggested a new fund that matches this profile. But 
the report did not tell me whether that risk profile was suitable for him nor how it compared to the risk profile of the fund in his old scheme. If there was a difference in the risk profile, in 
that the new fund was relatively higher risk, it seemed likely that the new fund would most 
likely have higher growth projections that could make the switch seem more attractive and
make the advice seem more suitable.
As his adviser, Tuto should not simply have recoded his attitude to risk but also asked how
much of his pension and her overall wealth was put at risk. Given what we know about Mr
Ss financial context it seems his pension was his only safety net (once he was over 55).
While one of the reasons to switch was said to be higher potential returns that should not
be at the cost of adopting a risk profile that was not suitable for Mr S given his situation at
that time.
On balance I think Tuto should have challenged Mr Ss adoption of a low medium attitude to
risk given his poor financial resilience and made clear whether there was a difference in the
risk profile of the investment between the new and old scheme.
Ongoing reviews
The agreement with Mr S said that the ongoing 0.3% per annum fee payable to Tuto was to
cover an annual review and ensure the plan remained aligned with his needs and
circumstances.
However after a review by the regulator in this area known as the Retail distribution review,
advisers were required to specifically explain what service they would be providing in return
for further ongoing fees they were going to collect. The regulator also noted that pension
arrangements, may be less likely to need regular reviews if the consumer has been invested
into broadly managed fund(s), especially if they have lifestyle investment included.
I note that the old pension scheme documents says that it was just such a lifestyle
investment, so I assume annual reviews were not needed.
The Tuto report said
Ongoing Review Service - Your financial objectives may change over time due to changes in
your lifestyle or circumstances. We believe it is essential to ensure that your portfolio
continues to meet your lifestyle and investment objectives. Our ongoing review and
management service offers a range of services which include:
 Structured annual reviews to give you piece of mind
 Assessment of your current circumstances and any changes to your plans that are
needed
 Review of your attitude to risk and whether your investments are still suitable
 Review of your investment performance to date
 Ongoing support with correspondence and administration issues
Given Mr S had very limited financial flexibility due to his income and liabilities and given the
existing plan had a lifestyle strategy, it wasnt clear to me that he had a need for annual
reviews, nor the additional costs of having them.
My view of suitability
Having considered each of these areas and Mr Ss context at the time, on balance I didnt
think the advice to switch was suitable.
I said that because as shown above:-The saving in ongoing annual charges was relatively low (if any) compared to the 
costs of over £1,000 for the switch advice and the time needed to recoup that cost 
through growth and cost saving.
he couldnt access his pension for another 5 years, so could not get immediate
access nor did he need flexibility now and could have got it at a later date.
He could already pass the benefits to his wife on his death.
The new plan was either more expensive or only marginally cheaper and the saving
would depend on the fund he invested in.
He didnt need a choice of over 100 funds and was advised to invest in one.
He already had an investment that didnt need to incur the cost of an annual review
as it had a lifestyle approach.
I also thought that there was a need to question whether Mr Ss attitude to risk at low 
medium was suitable for him given his lack of any financial resilience at that time and 
therefore whether the proposed low medium investment was suitable for him at the time. 
This could mean that the growth comparisons presented were misleading if there was a 
difference in risk profile of the new and old investment fund.
I noted that Tuto said that at the first annual review the fund had increased in value so he
must be better off. But that is not necessarily the case. I said that because we do not know
what value was invested at the actual transfer date (only the value at the date of the report)
and we dont know how much his pension would have been worth had it remained invested
in the old pension plan and had he not paid out over £1,000 in charges.
However before I issued my final decision it would be helpful if
Tuto could confirm the following:-
1. The charges in the old scheme given that it was a Stakeholder plan and therefore
resolve whether the new plan was cheaper or more expensive than the old plan.
2. The risk profile of the investment in the old pension scheme.
3. Whether the growth projections used as a starting value reflected the amount that
would be deducted to pay Tutos fees such that the starting value invested was lower
than the amount transferred from the old scheme.
4. The amount of the actual transfer value received from the old plan and the amount
invested in the new plan after deduction of Tutos charges and the date of the
transfer.
5. Confirmation as to whether Tuto completed any further annual reviews after 2017
and if so provide details
Mr S could confirm whether he has withdrawn any money from his pension and if he
could provide details of the current value, investments and details as to whether Tuto
completed any further annual reviews after 2017.
As I had provisionally concluded that the advice to switch was not suitable, I could consider
an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience.I had not set out a basis for calculating financial loss as I wanted to be able to review Tutos
answers to my questions above which could change my conclusions. If I didnt change my
mind I said I would issue proposals for calculating financial loss to both parties before I issue 
my final decision.
Distress and inconvenience
I thought Mr S had been put to trouble due to the unsuitable advice. I thought the impact was
moderate and I proposed an award of £150 would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint.
I proposed to direct that Tuto Money Limited should:-
1. Pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience
2. Such amount of redress as is calculated in accordance with my redress award for 
financial loss.
Mr S accepted by proposed decision.
Tuto said the following:-
It still thought that Mr S had been given good advice. It said 
1. As there were no specified charges in the Standard Life documentation, the systems 
switching report uses the actual quotes and growth rates provided by the old scheme
to extrapolate the approximate charges. These charges are for example purposes only
and have no bearing on the illustration comparisons which are used for the basis of the
advice. It was clear however, that even including its initial charge of £995, the projected
pension fund is higher at low, medium and high growth rates in the new plan
rather than remaining in the old plan. (as detailed on page 7 of the systems FCAs Pension 
Switching Advice Template).
What was not made clear in its suitability report however was that it had a preferential 
charging structure with the new plan for this range of funds and as shown in the systems 
FCAs Pension Switching Advice Template Page 8, the actual fund charge is only 0.1%, 
not 0.5% as is the full rate. So the total charges for the new Aviva plan are a fund charge of 
0.1% and an AMC of 0.3%, a total of only 0.4% p.a. Even when its ongoing advice charge of 
0.3% was added in, the total ongoing charges were only 0.7%. considerably less than the 
1% charge for the existing plan. It said its ongoing adviser charge of 0.3% stopped in 
November 2019 and had been 0% since.
I provided Tuto with a recent annual statement supplied by Mr S. This said the following
These include the following:
- Financial adviser commentary
"The start date of this policy was 17/06/2016
- The Aviva charge for this client is :
First 30,000.00 (%) 0.4
From 30,000.01 to 250,000.00 (%) 0.35
From 250,000.01 to 400,000.00 (%) 0.25
From 400,000.01 (%) 0.15- Core Choice Discount Eligibility?
Yes
The Ongoing adviser charge on the plan is 0.00%
In the period from November 2019 to November 2022 it said that the ongoing advice charge 
was 33.25 and the Aviva charge 127.01.
I supplied a copy of the statement to Tuto as it didnt seem to reflect the position as they now 
suggested it was. It would seem from this extract from Mr Ss plan and given the current 
value is under £30,000, that the Aviva client charge is 0.4% not any lower figure. The 
ongoing adviser charge had stopped as Tuto was no longer retained.
It also said that the Aviva charge shown in the client report should be 0.3% not 0.4% as 
quoted. It said this totalled the £127.01 shown in the annual statement. But this did not 
include the 0.5% fund charge which needed adding on top.
The original report showed an ongoing charge of 0.3% plus the 0.3% and 0.5% charge for 
the provider and the fund.
It would seem to me from the extract from Mr Ss plan and given the current value is under 
£30,000 that the Aviva client charge is 0.4% not any lower figure. The ongoing adviser 
charge had stopped as Tuto was no longer retained.
It said the original suitability report was correct as it shows 0.3% ongoing adviser charge and 
a total of 0.8% (0.3% AMC and 0.5% fund charge) for the overall product charge. Which is 
more than 1% in total.
2. The old Managed fund was a balanced fund so had a medium attitude to risk.
Tuto said this however reduced considerably as the client gets nearer to their NRD and life 
styling automatically switches funds into a risk-free cash fund starting 5 years away from the 
pension plan NRD of 65. This was not what Mr S wanted at all, he wanted flexibility,
accessing the fund as he wished and did not want to buy an annuity on his 65th birthday.
Therefore any analysis of projections would be worse for him if he had not been
moved, but this is not reflected in the analysis.
Tuto offered a comprehensive ongoing review service which included an annual
review of the client circumstances, ATR check and an assessment as to whether the 
investments are still suitable, switching free of charge if necessary. The service would also 
include ad hoc communications, and the taking of client telephone calls, especially at times 
like these when markets are turbulent. The ongoing charge is 0.3%, so costs was 
approximately £30 p.a.
3. The growth projections did allow for the £995 initial fee having been taken at outset and 
the lower amount would have been used for the basis of the comparison.
4. The fund value at the time of the transfer was £10,592.50 and the initial charge had
been allowed for in the comparison quotes, the actual amount invested would have
been £9,597.50. It later said it had found a report on 8 August 2017 which said the actual 
value was £11,142.53 which was after the Tuto charge and on the initial investment of 
£10,592.50 gross and £9,9597.50 net.
5. Annual Reviews No Further Reviews were undertaken.
I asked Mr S to confirm whether he had made any withdrawals from his pension and 
evidence of reviews offered by Tuto since the contract started and for current valuation and charges information. Mr Ss representative said it did not appear there had been any 
withdrawals and Mr S had not provided evidence of any reviews by Tuto. He also confirmed 
he was not a tax payer as he was a full-time carer.
I also sent the proposed redress wording (based on what the investigator had proposed) to 
Mr S and Tuto.
Mr S said he was happy to accept the proposed compensation and that his marginal rate of 
tax was zero as he was a carer for a family member.
Tuto said from its understanding the value of the fund with the provider was currently around 
£12,923.58 and questioned whether that included the initial fee of £995 or whether it 
excluded it. It said this was then compared to the £11,979.58 if he had left it with the old 
provider. I explained that neither figure was correct. For the purposes of the loss calculation 
it was necessary to compare what the value of the old plan would have been had it never 
moved. The value would be at the date of calculation which I suggested would be the date of 
my final decision. This value would not have the £995 deducted as it would never have been 
moved.
This would then be compared to the current value of the new plan on the calculation date 
(the date of my decision). That value would already take into account the £995 that was 
deducted before it was invested and any ongoing charges.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the replies from Tuto but having done so I have not changed my mind . I 
say that for all the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
I note Tuto says that actual ongoing charges were lower as it had an arrangement with the 
new provider. This meant the new scheme was cheaper. But when I questioned it about this 
I did not find their answer clear or helpful nor did it clearly explain how this was reflected in 
the current scheme statements which did not seem to support what they had said. But even 
if I am wrong and as they say there was a preferential lower charge, that was not clearly set 
out in the initial advice report and this is what Mr S relied on in making his decision. So I 
dont think Tuto demonstrated in its original advice that there were sufficient saving on 
charges to make the switch worthwhile either because the plan wasnt cheaper or wasnt 
sufficiently cheaper to justify the switch or because that wasnt explained in the information 
Mr S relied on in making his decision.
I note it says the old scheme investment had a medium attitude to risk profile and the growth 
projections showed it did better at low, medium and high growth rates were assumed. But it 
isnt clear to me why this wasnt clearly explained in the report and why it referred to high 
charges in the old plan. This meant that the report did not clearly demonstrate suitability on 
the basis of cost. This was important and it was based on the report that Mr S made his 
decision.
I note the comments about Mr Ss desire for flexibility and not wishing to buy an annuity at 
age 65. But I have already commented on this in my provisional decision and noted that he 
could have switched at a later date closer to his retirement age and/or before the lifestyle 
investment changes would have started.I note also that Tuto say no further annual reviews were performed after 2017. But Mr S was  
paying for a service he didnt previously need.
It refers to the FCA pension switching suitability assessment template. There is one on the 
file that was completed in 2016 and this sems to show that it was not demonstrably clear that 
the new plan was suitable. But even if I am wrong in that for all the reasons I have given and 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that the advice given by 
Tuto to Mr S wasnt suitable for him.
I can therefore make an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
The investigator proposed the following basis for compensation and both parties were given 
the chance to comment further on it. I have not changed the redress in the light of the 
questions by Tuto as they did not comment on the approach just questioned the figures and 
calculation. 
In order to put things right, within 30 days of this service notifying Tuto Money Limited that 
Mr S has accepted this decision, Tuto Money Limited should:-
1. Pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience and
2.carry out a loss assessment to see what Mr Ss pension value would have been at 
the date of this direction if hed stayed within his stakeholder plan invested as he 
was prior to the transfer.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by Tuto:-
(a) obtaining the notional value of Mr Ss pension (from his previous stakeholder 
provider) as it would have been on the date of this decision and on basis that his 
pension had remained invested in the same funds as it was prior to the transfer (and 
for the avoidance of doubt without deduct the advice fee of around £995) 
and then 
(b) subtracting (from the amount determined in (a) above), the value of the pension with 
Mr Ss new provider on the same date.
If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
If the value is positive there is a loss and Tuto Money Limited should pay that amount into Mr 
Ss pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the loss. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Tuto Money 
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Tuto Money Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, itshould pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age, which is zero, so no deduction for tax should be made.
If Tutu Money Limited does not pay Mr S the amount calculated under (2) above (if any) 
within 30 days of this service notifying it that Mr S has accepted this decision the amount 
payable under (2) above shall be increased by simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple from the expiry of the 30 days to the date of payment to Mr S. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Tuto Money Limited must within 30 days of this service notifying Tuto Money 
Limited that Mr S has accepted this decision,:-
1. Pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience and
2. Pay Mr S such amount (if any) as represents his loss calculated by carrying out a 
loss assessment to see what Mr Ss pension value would have been at the date of 
this direction if hed stayed within his stakeholder plan invested as he was prior to 
the transfer.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by Tuto:-
(a) obtaining the notional value of Mr Ss pension (from his previous stakeholder 
provider) as it would have been on the date of this decision and on basis that his 
pension had remained invested in the same funds as it was prior to the transfer (and 
for the avoidance of doubt without deducting the advice fee of around £995 payable 
to Tuto) 
and then 
(b) subtracting (from the amount determined in (a) above), the value of the pension with 
Mr Ss new provider on the same date.
If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
If the value is positive there is a loss and Tuto Money Limited should pay that amount into Mr 
Ss pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the loss. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief (but for the  
for the avoidance of doubt without deducting the advice fee of around £995 payable to Tuto 
from the amount the notional value of the previous stakeholder pension plan). Tuto Money Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Tuto Money Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age which is zero, so no deduction for tax should be made.
If Tuto Money Limited does not pay Mr S the amount calculated under (2) above (if any) 
within 30 days of this service notifying it that Mr S has accepted this decision the amount 
payable under (2) above shall be increased by simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple from the expiry of the 30 days to the date of payment to Mr S. 
Tuto Money Limited must provide Mr S with detailed calculations to support the amount that 
it pays and to demonstrate that the calculation has been completed correctly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman