DRN-3501779
The complaint
Mr I complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined to pay for repairs to his car 
and that it didnt provide him with a courtesy car after he made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants the repairs paid for, compensation and an apology.
 
What happened
Mr I said his car started making a grinding noise after he hit a speed bump. His garage said 
this incident may have damaged the car and so Mr I made a claim to Admiral. Admiral took 
his car to its approved repairer and then to a manufacturers garage. Both said there was no 
visible damage to the car and that the fault was most likely due to wear and tear. Admiral 
eventually returned the car to Mr I unrepaired and he had to organise repairs himself. 
Mr I was unhappy that Admiral took so long to make its decision to decline the claim after 
initially saying it would repair his car. He had to hire cars for work in the meantime and this 
caused him trouble and upset and about £3,000 in hire costs. Mr I was unhappy with 
Admirals communication and with the service provided by the approved repairer. Admiral 
agreed that its service could have been better, and it paid Mr I £200 in total compensation. 
But Mr I remained unhappy. Admiral later agreed to reimburse Mr I £78 for a days hire. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
reasonable for Admiral to ask for a specialist report on the fault. But he thought neither this, 
nor Mr Is garage, had shown that the fault was due to the incident. The repairs werent 
authorised. So he thought, under the policys terms and conditions, Admiral neednt have 
provided a courtesy car. 
He thought Admirals offer to pay for a days hire due to its delay was reasonable. He 
thought three weeks to obtain the assessment and decide to decline the claim was 
reasonable. And he thought Admirals offer of £200 compensation for its service failings was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr I replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. Mr I provided detailed comments for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the effect this matter has had on Mr Is well-being and employment. 
I can understand that he feels frustrated that it took three weeks for Admiral to decide to 
decline his claim. And I can see that in this time he incurred expenses due to car hire.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that there was a delay at the start of the claim. Admiral said it would collect Mr Is 
car for assessment within 2 days. Mr I said it took five days. But I think this includes a 
weekend. And so I think Admiral collected the car a day later than it had said it would. 
After Admiral collected the car, Mr I said he received a letter saying the car would be 
repaired. And I agree that this created an expectation that this would be done. But Admirals 
approved repairer had doubts that the fault was due to the incident, as implied by Mr Is 
garage. When there is a dispute about repairs, we think obtaining an independent engineers 
assessment is a fair way of resolving the matter. 
And I think this is what Admiral reasonably did by arranging for a manufacturers garage to 
assess the car. The outcome was that the engineer couldnt locate any damage from the 
speed bump incident, though he did note a recent oil leak. He thought the fault was more 
likely due to wear and tear. And this was excluded from cover by the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I think Admiral considered the email from Mr Is garage, its own repairers view and then the 
independent assessors opinion. Admirals engineers also later further reviewed the email 
and images Mr I provided from his garage, but these didnt change its decision. So I think 
Admiral considered all the available evidence and so justified its decision to not pay for the 
repairs as this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Admiral then didnt return the car to Mr I for six days. Mr I said he thought Admiral had 
caused 12 days delay as it hadnt returned the car immediately after it received the 
independent engineers report. But I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to have time 
to consider the report fully before making its decision about the repairs. After this, it took a 
further three working days to return the car after settling the garages invoice. I can 
appreciate Mr Is frustration, but I dont think this was unreasonable. And I can see that 
Admiral chased this up with the garage when it was brought to its attention. 
Our Investigator mistakenly told Mr I that his policy didnt cover business use. But I can see 
that the policys certificate of insurance states that Mr I is covered for his business use, as he 
has told us. 
But this doesnt mean that Admiral should reimburse Mr I for all his hire costs. Admiral didnt 
provide Mr I with a courtesy car as this isnt provided by the policy until repairs have been 
authorised. And the repairs werent authorised, so Mr I wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. 
But I think Admiral should reasonably consider Mr Is loss of use where it has caused 
avoidable delays in the claim. As Ive said above, I think there was one days delay in 
Admiral collecting the car. Admiral offered Mr I £78 compensation for this, which was his 
average days hire rate. So I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Admiral upheld several of Mr Is complaint points:
Delay in authorising the repairs by one day, but this was due to it needing to review the 
garages estimate and so I dont think this was unreasonable,
Creating the impression that the repairs were fully authorized, but this was then further 
reviewed, and so I think Admiral could have been clearer,
Not providing updates on the claim and a call-back so Mr I had to call it, 
The garage hanging up on calls,
Delay with the car being returned, but I can see that Admiral dealt with this promptly 
when it was brought to its attention,
Not telling Mr I it wasnt making repairs until a week after it received the consistency 
report, but I think it needed time to review the report,Not formally logging Mr Is dissatisfaction as a complaint,
Mr I couldnt access his policy documents online,
Mr I had to relay messages between Admiral and the repairer.
Admiral apologised by its service failings. And Admiral offered Mr I £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset its claim handling had caused. I think that was fair and reasonable as 
this is in keeping with our published guidance. 
Admiral didnt offer Mr I any further compensation for the hire costs he had incurred. I can 
understand that Mr I feels frustrated by this. But Mr I made a claim and Admiral needed to 
validate it. I think the length of time it took Admiral to assess Mr Is car, make its decision 
and return his car to his own garage wasnt unreasonable. So I dont require Admiral to 
increase its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman