DRN-2182704
The complaint
C is unhappy with BUPA Insurance Limited because it took disproportionate steps to try and 
validate their insurance policy.  
This complaint is brought by a partnership, but for simplicity, Ill refer to C as making 
submissions for this complaint.
What happened
C has had a group income protection policy for several years. Part of the complaint is that C 
has been a long-standing member of BUPA and so cannot see why it needed this 
information.
In 2019, Cs group policy renewal raised questions for BUPA. C told it that they had changed 
their trading name and there were also changes to the level of cover needed, owing to a 
beneficiary leaving the group policy. 
C said BUPA then proceeded to ask for information that wasnt relevant or necessary. C also 
said that it wasnt until five weeks into the renewal that this came to light and that BUPA 
refused to provide cover for the partnership until the information was forthcoming. C said this 
caused untold levels of stress because BUPA was potentially going to withdraw cover 
altogether and all beneficiaries covered by the group policy would have lost cover for pre-
existing medical conditions.
BUPA said it wanted to verify whether C still met the policy criteria, namely, that it was still a 
trading business. It said the questions asked were relevant for it to determine this. BUPA 
highlighted that in the absence of this information, it still agreed to cover C for the year 
2019/2020 on an exceptional basis  and that this gave C plenty of time to gather the 
necessary information. Although, it warned that should C be unable to provide more detail by 
the following years renewal, then C would not qualify for a group policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Cs complaint. She accepted that some questions asked by 
BUPA may not have been relevant, but she said BUPA was entitled to verify whether C met 
the group policy terms. She concluded there had been no loss as C was offered a policy for 
that year and so was never without cover. 
C didnt agree with her findings and so asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. C 
said theyre an unregistered partnership and so the information BUPA asked to see, audited 
accounts or a partnership agreement werent relevant because they had neither of these 
things. C said they were asked for a letter from their accountant, confirming specific 
information about the partnership, but BUPA then refused to accept it as their accountant 
was also one of the partners.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I say that because I dont think BUPA 
has made an error here. Ill explain why.
I understand C had a long-standing relationship with BUPA and so I see the connection C 
made between that and why they were unhappy with the prospect of potentially losing cover 
after all those years. Having carefully reviewed BUPAs file, I noticed there was perhaps 
more detail motivating BUPAs actions that wasnt clearly explained. And its partly because 
of the tenure of its relationship with C that then prompted BUPA to ask the questions C was 
so unhappy with. 
During the time Cs been with BUPA, the insurance industry has changed significantly, and 
this has left the landscape somewhat different. When C first became members, BUPA was 
given little information about the partnership and it didnt ask any for much detail about Cs 
background or operational set up. But since then, because of changing regulations and more 
responsibility on businesses to ensure they know their customers, insurers, like BUPA, must 
have good understanding of its customer base. 
Thats why BUPA began asking C questions about the partnership and whether it was still 
operating in line with its expectations. To qualify for a group policy, BUPA has a criteria 
which its small medium enterprises must meet. Im not going to list all the detail here 
because its not relevant for the purposes of my final decision. But BUPA essentially wanted 
to make sure that C was still trading to make sure they continued to meet this. 
I think this was where the issues stemmed from as BUPA requested information that it 
perhaps thought was standard for partnerships, like Cs, to have access to. However, C isnt 
set up in the conventional partnership way and so wasnt able to produce what had been 
requested. Further, because one of Cs partners was an accountant, more friction began to 
occur because C challenged BUPAs understanding of partnerships that operated in this 
way.
I think its clear Cs responses caused BUPA some confusion and in turn, took it a few weeks 
to reach a decision on whether C continued to meet its criteria. But I note BUPA still agreed 
to offer cover for the whole policy year whilst it tried to better understand Cs set up. I 
thought this was fair because it ensured C was able to offer group cover for the members, 
even though it was still unsure whether this was something that should continue. And so, 
theres effectively no loss to C here. 
Also, C didnt appear to engage fully with BUPA or seem to understand what information it 
was looking for. C signposted BUPA to a website which it felt adequately satisfied the 
questions being asked about continued trade, but that wasnt enough for BUPA as it wanted 
to know other details too, like the company name and address, and it wanted this to come 
from a more official and credible source. I think it reasonable for BUPA to want to know more 
about this particular element because there had recently been a change in the name C 
traded under.  
Eventually, C was offered a grant from the government following the onset of the COVID-19 
crisis. This was enough to satisfy BUPA that C was still fully operational. I know C shared 
with BUPA its most recent accounts to try and show they were still trading, but this was only 
up until April 2019 and the policy renewed in September that year. And so, there were 
approximately five months left unaccounted for which BUPA was unable to determine 
continued trade.  C shared with us its booking confirmation evidence and I think this would have helped 
demonstrate to BUPA that C was still operational had it been shared sooner. So, whilst I 
accept the validation process didnt run as smoothly as either party would have liked, I think 
BUPA did what it could to help minimise the impact by agreeing to provide cover for the 
period in question. I also note that since then, BUPA has now validated Cs policy and 
continued to offer cover the following policy year 2020-2021. Its for these reasons, I dont 
think BUPA needs to do anything more and so I dont uphold Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman