DRN-2083039
The complaint
Miss L complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd placed a default on her credit file in relation to a 
debt that isnt hers. 
Miss L also complains that she wasnt sent certified copies of the original credit agreement, 
default notices and notice of assignment from the original lender. 
Ms L complains that Lowell is unfairly pursuing her for the debt. 
What happened
Lowell acquired several debts in Miss Ls name. This case relates to a catalogue shopping 
debt.  
The original debt owner says Miss L opened a catalogue shopping account via a credit 
agreement in October 2015. The account fell into arrears and the original debt owner 
defaulted it on 14 August 2018. 
Lowell acquired the debt on 10 October 2018 and a notice of variation was sent to Miss L on 
26 October 2018. Lowell took over responsibility for reporting the default on Miss Ls credit 
file. Over the following months, Lowell attempted to recover the outstanding balance from 
Miss L. 
Last year, Miss L complained and Lowell responded on 18 October 2019. Lowell explained 
that the default was applied by the original lender after the account fell into arrears. Lowell 
said the original lender received the last payment on 28 December 2017 and the account 
defaulted with a balance of £400 on 14 August 2018. Lowell sent Miss L a credit agreement, 
but it wasnt in her name. 
Miss L referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Lowell had dealt with the majority of Miss Ls complaint points fairly, but recommended it pay 
£100 to recognise the distress caused by receiving someone elses credit agreement. Lowell 
asked to appeal and said it hadnt had enough time to investigate the incorrect credit 
agreement it sent out. 
More recently, Lowell issued another final response to Miss L dated 7 August 2020. Lowell 
apologised for sending Miss L someone elses credit agreement and offered her £150. 
Our investigator forwarded Lowells offer to Miss L along with a copy of the original credit 
agreement, an account statement issued by the original lender and copies of the notice of 
assignments. Miss L responded and explained the original debt was opened by an ex 
partner who has now passed away. Miss L asked to continue the complaint so her case has 
been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are number of issues involved in this case and Ill look at each in turn. 
Miss L has told us she wasnt responsible for the original debt. But, as our investigator has 
said, Lowell wasnt party to the way the debt was arranged in October 2015 by the original 
lender. In October 2018 Lowell acquired the debt from the original lender and sent Miss L a 
notice of assignment. I understand Miss L has serious concerns about how the original debt 
was set up, but thats not something Lowell can comment on. Miss L should refer any 
complaint she has about whether the original debt is hers to the original lender. 
Miss L says Lowell has failed to send her the key documents. Our investigator recently 
forwarded Miss L a copy of the July 2018 statement, a copy of the original credit agreement 
and copies of the notices of assignment Lowell and the original lenders sent Miss L. I 
understand Miss L has concerns about the addresses used by Lowell. But Lowell was acting 
in line with the information provided by the original lender, along with information it was able 
to obtain. Im satisfied Lowell used reasonable addresses to try and contact Miss L. 
We have now forwarded Miss L a copy of the original credit agreement which says it was 
accepted electronically by Miss L in October 2015. A statement copy and notices of 
assignment have also been sent. So Im satisfied Miss L has now been given the information 
she asked for when she originally complained. I wouldnt expect Lowell to have copies of the 
default notices and correspondence the original lender was required to send Miss L. 
Miss L says the original lender never reported the default on her credit file and that it was 
Lowell that took that step after it acquired the debt. Again, I cant look at the original lenders 
actions as part of this complaint. But Im satisfied the default date Lowell has reported 
accurately reflects the information it was given when it acquired the debt. Lowell has sent 
evidence to show it is reporting the default date as 14 August 2018. Lowell didnt acquire the 
debt until 10 October 2018 and confirmed the change to Miss L on 26 October 2018 when it 
sent a notice of assignment. I dont know whether the original lender ever reported the 
default. But I would have expected it to stop reporting a default once the debt was acquired 
by Lowell so only one default would show on Miss Ls credit file. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss L but Im satisfied the debt was legitimately acquired from the 
original lender and that Lowell is entitled to try and obtain repayment from her. As a result, I 
dont agree that Lowell has acted unfairly by contacting Miss L about the outstanding 
balance. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ls complaint because Lowell sent Miss L someone elses 
credit agreement and asked it to pay £100. Lowell subsequently investigated this issue and 
agreed it sent Miss L someone elses credit agreement. Lowell apologised and offered Miss 
L £150. I know Miss L is upset at receiving someone elses credit agreement and I can see 
there was a considerable delay in obtaining copies of the relevant documents. But the 
information has now been sent to Miss L and Im satisfied that £150 fairly reflects the impact 
of receiving someone elses credit agreement in addition to the delay. 
Im satisfied Lowells offer of £150 is a fair way to resolve this complaint so Im not telling it to 
increase the settlement or take any further action. As Ive said above, if Miss L remains concerned that the catalogue debt wasnt opened by 
her and that the correct default process wasnt followed, she should refer her concerns to the 
original lender 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lowell Portfolio I Ltd to pay Miss L 
£150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman