DRN-3393911
The complaint
Mr C complains that NIIB group Limited gave him incorrect information about how the 
balance under his loan agreement would be calculated when he handed back his car.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with NIIB.
In October/November 2019 Mr C experienced some financial difficulties and fell behind with 
his payments under the agreement. In July 2020 Mr C contacted NIIB and advised that he 
could no longer afford to make payments. He agreed to hand the car back. The car was 
collected and sold at auction in August 2020.
Mr C says that when he contacted NIIB in July 2020, it told him that his balance under the 
agreement would be calculated in the following way: the amount to pay would be drawn 
down to the voluntary termination amount (£7,871.39) and the sale proceeds would be 
added to what hed paid so far leaving nothing further to pay if this cleared the balance.
Mr C was subsequently told that he owed £2,145.11 under the agreement. He thinks the 
balance should have been cleared when the car was sold, given its expected value. Mr C 
says he hasnt been told what the car sold for at auction.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, NIIB said that Mr C chose to voluntary terminate his 
agreement and that it had explained the likely remaining balance to him.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked at the account notes and said it wasnt 
clear whether the agreement was ended early by voluntary termination or voluntary 
surrender. The investigator said that although NIIB had said that the agreement was 
voluntary terminated, the amount on the account statement didnt show this. The investigator 
said it was likely that Mr C was given contradictory or incorrect information during the call in 
July 2020, which left him with an expectation which wasnt in line with how NIIB would settle 
the agreement. The investigator said NIIB should pay £125 compensation to Mr C for the 
loss of expectation and the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C didnt agree. He said if hed been given correct information about how NIIB would settle 
the agreement, he wouldve kept the car. Mr C said NIIB should be bound by what it said 
during the call as to how the agreement would be settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has said that he was told the agreement would be settled by reducing the balance to 
half of the total due under the agreement, and for the sale proceeds to be applied to the 
remaining balance. Hes also said that based on his estimated value of the car, he expected 
to be left with nothing to pay under the agreement.
A credit agreement can be ended early by voluntary termination or voluntary surrender. In a 
voluntary termination, the car is handed back and there will be nothing left to pay provided 
that at least half the total amount payable under the agreement, plus any overdue payments, 
have been paid. Under Mr Cs agreement, half of the total amount payable under the 
agreement is £7,871.39.
In a voluntary surrender, a rebate on interest due under the agreement is applied. This 
amount varies depending on how early the agreement is being settled. The car is then sold, 
and the net proceeds are applied to the remaining balance under the agreement, leaving the 
consumer responsible for any shortfall. 
Mr Cs description of how he thought the agreement would be settled is a combination of 
voluntary termination and voluntary surrender. Ive reviewed the account notes and the 
account statements to see what actually happened. 
Based on what Ive seen, the agreement was voluntary terminated, although there are some 
items which I would  expect to see on a voluntary surrender, such as an interest rebate. This 
service asked NIIB for further information about some of the reductions applied to Mr Cs 
account, but the explanation provided didnt resolve the inconsistencies. That said, Im 
satisfied that Mr C was put in a better position than he would have been under a voluntary 
termination, because the reductions applied reduced the outstanding balance to a lower 
figure than it otherwise would have been.
Mr C has said that he only agreed to hand back the car because of the information given to 
him about how the agreement would be settled. He says that because the information 
doesnt accurately reflect what happened, NIIB should be held to what it said to him over the 
phone in July 2020. 
This service asked NIIB for the call recording dated July 2020 and for the call notes. Neither 
has been provided. Because I wasnt present when the call took place, I cant be certain of 
exactly what was discussed. Even if Mr C was told that his agreement would be settled in 
the way that he described, this isnt what has actually happened. Bearing in mind what Ive 
said about the two ways in which an agreement can end early, I think its more likely that 
theres been a miscommunication here by NIIB when it explained to Mr C how the 
agreement would be settled.
I appreciate that Mr C feels that NIIB should be held to what he says it told him over the 
phone. However, even if NIIB miscommunicated things to Mr C, this is an error and doesnt 
mean that NIIB can be held to this in a contractually binding way. Because of this, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask NIIB to do anything other than a voluntary termination or a 
voluntary surrender. As Ive already explained, the account shows that the balance is less 
than Id expect to see under either method because of the additional deductions made by 
NIIB.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its likely that NIIB provided inaccurate information to 
Mr C about how the agreement would be settled. I dont agree that this miscommunication 
becomes contractually binding on NIIB. 
Putting things right
Its clear that Mr C has found the experience of ending his agreement early frustrating and 
distressing. I appreciate that Mr Cs decision to end the agreement early was made against a background of financial difficulties. In the circumstances, Id expect NIIB to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr C so that he can pay off the outstanding balance. I also 
think its fair to ask NIIB to pay compensation to Mr C for his loss of expectation and the 
distress hes been caused.
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments that he wouldnt have ended the agreement early if 
hed been given correct information. However, Im not persuaded that Mr C would have done 
anything different. Hed already advised NIIB that he could no longer afford the payments on 
the car. If hed been in a position to continue to make payments (even with the assistance of 
a third party ), I dont think he wouldve contacted NNIIB about ending the agreement early in 
the first place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NIIB Group Limited must pay compensation 
of £125 to Mr C for distress and inconvenience. It should agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr C for the balance under the agreement and remove any negative credit 
information which has been reported since this complaint was raised.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman