DRN-3724455
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to provide him with an 
accurate valuation of his personal pension. And that it also failed to explain the reason that 
his pension valuation decreased significantly.
What happened
Mr A has a personal pension plan with Aviva. He said he aimed to retire at the end of 2021. 
So he contacted Aviva to ask for an accurate pension valuation. But he still hasnt received 
one. I understand that Mr A has yet to access his retirement funds.
Mr A said he received an annual statement in February 2021 which showed the value of his 
Non-Protected Rights (NPR) was £143,072.68. He said he also had Protected Rights (PR) of 
approximately £32,000. He said he followed the value of his funds online over the year. And 
noticed on 2 November 2021 that the total value of his funds was £181,130.53. This was 
made up of £147,483.92 NPR and £33,646.61 PR.
Mr A said he called Aviva in November 2021 to confirm the online valuation so that he could 
put his retirement plan into action. But Aviva couldnt do this on the call. Instead, it told him 
that the value had to be calculated manually, and that this would take two weeks. 
Mr A said he received the valuation on 16 November 2021. This stated that the value of his 
pension was £87,389.08. He said he immediately called Aviva as he felt there mustve been 
a mistake. Mr A said Aviva told him that it would get the value re-checked, but that this would 
take another two weeks. Mr A said that after he complained that hed already waited two 
weeks, Aviva agreed to prioritise his request.
Mr A also noted that the November 2021 valuation looked strange against his February 2021 
annual statement. Some of the funds he invested in had fewer units in November 2021 than 
they did in February 2021, but Mr A said he hadnt made any changes to his investments. He 
also wanted to know what had happened to his PR funds. So he complained to Aviva in 
December 2021. As he hadnt heard from Aviva, he complained again on 22 January 2022.
Aviva acknowledged Mr As complaint on 1 February 2022. And on 20 February 2022 it 
issued its final response letter. It accepted itd made a mistake and said itd sent a cheque 
for £300 to say sorry.
Aviva acknowledged that Mr A wouldve been concerned by the low November 2021 
valuation, given it was considerably lower than previous valuations, and no explanation had 
been given about why this was the case. It said it had asked its actuarial department to 
review  as a priority given Mr A was possibly looking to access his funds - all of the 
previous valuations itd given him so that it could establish the correct figures. 
Aviva didnt provide the clarification Mr A needed. So he complained again. He said that hed 
been reviewing his policy in order to access the funds, as hed planned to retire at the start 
of 2022. But hed now had to put this on hold given the issues with his pension valuation. 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service in April 2022. He said hed not been able to move 
forward with the things he wanted to do due to the financial uncertainty. And that this had 
been extremely stressful. He said he needed an accurate valuation of his pension so that he 
could make future plans. He also want to know what had happened to his PR funds and why 
things had gone wrong.
Mr A said he had to continue working for three months longer than hed originally intended 
due to the uncertainty with his pension valuation. He said he retired in March 2022, partly 
because Aviva had acknowledged something mightve gone wrong. 
Our investigator contacted Aviva to get further information. Amongst other things, he wanted 
an explanation about why Mr As pension value had fallen so significantly. And an 
explanation about why the number of units held in different funds appeared to have reduced. 
He also wanted information about Mr As PR funds. And for Aviva to explain why it had taken 
so long to provide Mr A with an accurate valuation. Aviva didnt provide the requested 
information. 
Based on the information available to him, our investigator considered that the complaint 
should be upheld. Given the limited information he had, he felt that either the historical 
valuations had been inaccurate or the manual calculation used for the November 2021 
calculation was incorrect. He felt it was more likely that thered been an error in the manual 
calculation. But said that even if the manual calculation was correct, and it was the historical 
valuation information that was wrong, Mr A had been making retirement decisions based on 
that information. And hed had no reason to think it was incorrect.
Under these circumstances, our investigator didnt consider that it would be fair to pay Mr A 
the manually calculated amount, even if the value was accurate. He felt that to put things 
right, Aviva should pay Mr A the value which showed in his account on 2 November 2021 - 
£181,130.53 - as this was the date when Mr A had called Aviva to put his retirement plans in 
place. He also felt that Aviva should add 8% simple interest to reflect the fact that Mr A had 
been deprived of the money. Our investigator also felt that Aviva should pay Mr A an 
additional £800 for the considerable stress it had caused him over a lengthy period of time.
Mr A agreed with our investigator. 
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator. It said it needed to further investigate the complaint 
to find out exactly whatd happened. It didnt agree consider that it should pay Mr A the figure 
hed been quoted in November 2021 as it didnt feel that it would be right for Mr A to benefit 
from a mistake. It said it needed to ensure that Mr A was put into the correct position he 
wouldve been in had it not made the error. 
Aviva also felt that the additional compensation payment of £800 that our investigator had 
recommended was excessive, given the £300 itd already paid. 
Our investigator told Aviva that hed arrived at his conclusion because it hadnt been able to 
provide any evidence or explanation about whatd happened to Mr As pension valuations. 
He felt his recommended redress was the most accurate methodology available.
This service shared Avivas response with Mr A. He felt itd shown no remorse for the stress 
itd caused him for almost a year. He felt Aviva shouldve fully investigated the issue months 
earlier. And that if it had, it wouldve saved a lot of time and stress. He was also upset that 
Aviva felt a further £800 compensation for the significant stress itd caused him was 
excessive. He felt that if anything was excessive, it was the amount of time Aviva had 
wasted by not addressing the problem itd caused. He considered that even £1,100 total 
compensation for the stress hed suffered wasnt enough.On 29 November 2022 Aviva sent this service its reasons for disagreeing with our 
investigators view. It acknowledged that itd provided a one-off incorrect figure to Mr A. But 
said that all previous values itd provided were correct. So it felt that Mr A hadnt been 
prevented from requesting retirement options. Aviva also said that it couldnt find any 
reference to Mr A telling it he wanted to take his retirement benefits at the point that the 
complaint was raised. And repeated its point that it felt the additional distress and 
inconvenience payment our investigator had recommended was too high.
Our investigator asked Aviva to provide supporting evidence to back up its claims. He felt 
that this service hadn't been provided with sufficient evidence to show what the true 
valuation was/is and how this differs to the valuations that had been provided to Mr A.
Aviva provided some of the information our investigator requested on 4 January 2023. It 
shared the valuations that had been provided to Mr A. And said that the only date on which 
an incorrect valuation had been provided was the letter dated 11 November 2021. 
Aviva also provided details of the calls itd received from Mr A. It felt that these didnt show 
that itd been made aware that Mr A intended to take his retirement benefits. 
Our investigator asked Aviva for further information. He asked it to explain what the most 
accurate valuation was for Mr A's pension, broken down into NPR and PR. He also asked it 
to explain how Mr A was provided with the incorrect valuation in November 2021. And to 
explain why the valuation from November 2021 onwards wasn't consistent with Mr As online 
account valuation.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr A hadnt directly told Aviva that he intended to take 
retirement when he spoke to them in November 2021. But said that he had no reason to 
doubt Mr As testimony about this. 
Aviva didnt respond to our investigator.
This service shared Avivas 29 November 2021 response with Mr A. He made the following 
points:
- He felt that Aviva had failed to understand that the problem wasnt the error itd 
made, but its reluctance to respond and correct the issue. 
- He said that hed asked for a correct valuation after receiving what he felt was an 
incorrect valuation in November 2021. And that hed felt it would be unwise to 
request his retirement options until the valuation had been corrected.
- He felt there was considerable evidence that hed wanted to access his retirement 
funds around the end of 2021. He gave as an example of this an extract from his 
written complaint to Aviva on 22 January 2022: Coming up to my 65th birthday last 
November and considering about retiring. Mr A also said that Aviva had 
acknowledged his retirement intentions in its final response letter of 20 February 
2021: As you are reviewing this policy with a view to possibly accessing funds. Mr 
A also noted that in his 15 March 2022 letter to Aviva hed written: You are correct 
to assume that I was reviewing my policy in order to access the funds.
- Mr A felt that if Aviva had given him an accurate valuation in November 2021 or soon 
after, he wouldve immediately proceeded to ask for a retirement option. 
- He also felt that Aviva hadnt considered how much stress itd caused him, given it 
had said it felt the distress and inconvenience payment our investigator had recommended was excessive. Mr A said that Aviva still hadnt provided an accurate 
valuation, an apology or an explanation of how it had gone wrong after over a year. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
I gave Aviva a final opportunity to provide evidence to suggest that a different method of 
redress than the one our investigator had recommended would be more reasonable. But it 
didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Mr A intended to 
take his retirement benefits around the end of November 2021. I acknowledge Avivas 
concern that Mr A should be put back as near as possible to the position he wouldve been 
in but for its error, and shouldnt benefit from its mistake. But Im satisfied that Aviva hasnt 
provided enough additional evidence for me to fairly be able to assess the financial impact 
on Mr A in any other way. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Ill first explain why Im persuaded that Mr A did intend to access his retirement benefits with 
Aviva shortly after he contacted it for a valuation in November 2021.
Did Mr A intend to take his retirement benefits with Aviva around November 2021?
Aviva considers that Mr A couldve asked it for retirement options despite being unsure 
about his plans value. It also feels that theres no evidence that Mr A told it he wanted to 
take his retirement benefits when he raised the complaint. Therefore Aviva doesnt agree 
that theres enough evidence that Mr A wouldve taken his retirement benefits in November 
2021 but for the incorrect valuations it provided him with.
Mr A was 65 years old when he asked Aviva to confirm his pension value. He said hed 
made his retirement plans based on the pension values hed accessed online. He said hed 
seen that he had £181,130.53 invested in November 2021. And that this had allowed him to 
tell his employer he would retire from employment in early 2022. 
Mr A said hed asked Aviva for a correct valuation after receiving what looked like incorrect 
information in November 2021. He felt it would be unwise to ask for retirement options until 
the error had been corrected and explained.
Mr A also feels that theres a lot of evidence that hed wanted to access his retirement funds 
around the end of 2021. Ive already detailed the examples he gave in the background 
section of this decision. He said that if Aviva had given him an accurate valuation in 
November 2021 or soon after, he wouldve asked for his retirement options at that time. 
From what Ive seen, and from what Mr A has told this service, Im persuaded that Mr A did 
intend to access his retirement benefits with Aviva around the end of 2021. I say this 
because of his age and his retirement from employment plans.
I acknowledge that Aviva said that the incorrect valuations it provided to Mr A in November 
2021 didnt prevent him from asking for his retirement options. Aviva has accepted that it 
made a mistake with the November 2021 valuation it provided to Mr A. However, it doesnt 
seem to have realised that it also made a mistake within the annual statement it sent to Mr A 
on 18 January 2022. This also showed a much-reduced value of his pension funds - £86,397.99.
I consider it was reasonable for Mr A to wait until he was certain about the size of his 
retirement benefits. I say this because Avivas valuation error wasnt a small one. In fact, 
Aviva had told Mr A that his benefits  both in November 2021 and January 2022 - were only 
worth around half what hed previously expected. 
I can absolutely understand why it was so important to Mr A that he quickly established 
whether he had a pension worth around £90,000 or a pension worth twice that, as hed 
expected. Aviva seemed to have recognised the urgency of this reasonable request from Mr 
A as it noted in its February 2022 final response letter that Mr As request would be 
prioritised on the basis that he was possibly looking to access his funds. 
I consider that this shows that Aviva accepted that Mr A couldnt reasonably make any 
retirement decisions until it had confirmed whether the historical valuation figures were 
correct, or if the November 2021 valuation was correct.
Ive been given absolutely no explanation from Aviva as to why Mr As request wasnt 
prioritised. And its surprising that Aviva still hasnt provided Mr A with any sort of explanation 
for the incorrect valuations it gave him in November 2021 and January 2022.
Overall, Im persuaded that Mr A wouldve taken his retirement benefits in November 2021, 
or shortly thereafter, if hed been given a correct valuation in November 2021. 
As Ive found that Mr A wouldve accessed his retirement benefits with Aviva if it hadnt given 
him an incorrect valuation in November 2021, I uphold this complaint. I next considered 
suitable financial redress.
Fair compensation
Aviva has now confirmed that the November 2021 valuation was incorrect. And that all 
previous valuations reported to Mr A were correct. But it still hasnt provided Mr A or this 
service with any reasons for the incorrect valuations. This is despite our investigator 
requesting further information on more than one occasion. 
This services approach is always to aim to put a consumer as close to the position he 
wouldve been in but for the error. And while I acknowledge that Aviva is concerned that Mr 
A doesnt benefit from its mistake, its not provided me with sufficient evidence to suggest 
that a different method of redress than the one our investigator recommended would be 
more reasonable. 
As I consider that Mr A wouldve requested his retirement options on or around the date he 
requested the valuation in November 2021, I agree with our investigator that Aviva must pay 
Mr A the value which showed on his account on 2 November 2021, the day he called Aviva 
to put his retirement plans in place. I say this because I consider this to be the most accurate 
valuation available at the time that Mr A wanted to retire. 
It wouldve taken a short while for Mr A to have decided on his retirement options and 
completed the necessary paperwork. It also wouldve taken some time for Aviva to follow Mr 
As instructions on his retirement options. But I consider that the retirement process couldve 
been completed by the end of 2021.
Im satisfied that if the valuation error hadnt occurred, Mr A wouldve taken his retirement 
benefits by 31 December 2021. And that the value of £181,130.53 should be paid to Mr A for 
his retirement. Aviva must also add 8% simple interest to reflect the fact that Mr A has been deprived of the use of his money from 1 January 2022 to the date of settlement.
I also considered the distress and inconvenience Avivas error has caused Mr A.
Distress and inconvenience
Aviva said it had already paid Mr A £300 for the distress its error had caused. And felt that 
the additional £800 our investigator recommended was excessive. 
Mr A felt that Aviva hadnt considered how much stress itd caused him. And that it still 
hadnt provided him with an accurate valuation, an apology or an explanation of how it had 
gone wrong after over a year. Mr A felt that Aviva had failed to understand that the problem 
wasnt the error itd made, but its reluctance to respond and correct the issue. He also felt 
that if anything was excessive, it was the amount of time Aviva had wasted by not 
addressing the problem itd caused. Mr A didnt consider that even a total of £1,100 
compensation for the stress hed suffered was enough.
Mr A felt that Aviva shouldve fully investigated the issue months earlier. And that if it had, it 
wouldve saved a lot of time and stress. He said hed found the whole process very stressful, 
particularly given the uncertainty about his pension value and the lack of response from 
Aviva. He said hed been very stressed by the uncertainty of his financial position over the 
past year. And hed had to postpone many of the plans he and his wife had made due to that 
uncertainty. 
From what Ive seen, Avivas error, and its failure to address the issue in a reasonable 
timeframe, has had a considerable impact on Mr A over a long period of time. He had 
planned on retiring from employment at the end of 2021, but had to continue working until 
March 2022. Even then, he was less financially secure than he shouldve been but for 
Avivas error. All of these issues have been made worse by Avivas failure to properly 
investigate the error and to let Mr A know whatd gone wrong. 
Taking all of these points into account, I agree with our investigator that a further £800 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Avivas error has caused him is fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. I do acknowledge that Aviva considers this is too 
much, but I dont agree. Aviva still hasnt explained what happened to Mr A over a year after 
it said it would treat its investigation as a priority. I agree with Mr A that if it had done what it 
said it would do, his additional stress couldve been largely avoided.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr A £181,130.53 for his retirement. It must also 
add 8% simple interest to reflect the fact that Mr A has been deprived of the use of his 
money from 1 January 2022 to the date of settlement.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr A a further £800 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its error caused him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Aviva should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons Ive given above. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman