DRN-1780003
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) will not pay a claim 
under their contents insurance policy for £15,000 of jewellery stolen from their home. Mr and 
Mrs C also feel Ageas took too long to decide whether or not to cover their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C renewed their home buildings and contents policy through Ageas in December 
2017. During May 2017, Mr and Mrs C said they removed jewellery worth £15,000 from a 
safety deposit box and started to store it at home. Mr and Mrs C said they were already 
storing £15,000 of jewellery in their home and the additional items brought the total value of 
jewellery in their home to £30,000. Mr C said their intention was to keep the additional 
£15,000 of jewellery in their home temporarily whilst he tried to find somewhere else to keep 
it. All the items were stored in a locked metal box in Mr and Mrs Cs detached garage.
The Statement of Fact Mr and Mrs C received from Ageas at renewal contained questions 
about the level of cover that would be provided for high risk items, such as jewellery and 
watches. The information was presented as a table with questions in the first column and the 
responses in the second:
Is £15,000 sufficient cover to replace all the high-risk items in the home as new?
Is £1,500 sufficient cover to replace any single high-risk item in the home as new? If 
the replacement value of any single item exceeds £1,500 it must be specified or you 
will not be covered.
 
Yes was recorded next to both questions.
The renewal documents asked Mr and Mrs C a number of times to contact Ageas if any of 
the information in them wasnt accurate. The documents also pointed out that inaccurate or 
incomplete information provided by Mr and Mrs C could mean the policy may not cover a 
claim.
On 20 September 2018, Mr and Mrs Cs garage was burgled and the locked box containing 
the jewellery stolen. They made a claim on their buildings cover for damage to a door to the 
garage and a claim on their contents cover for jewellery worth £30,000, which included some 
items worth more than £1,500. Ageas covered the claim for the door to the garage, but the 
claim for the jewellery was declined by Ageas in full in August 2019. Ageas said if it had 
been aware of the value of the jewellery, it may have declined to provide contents cover or at 
the very least have covered them but with conditions.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Ageas: they were unhappy it declined their claim and took a 
year to let them know the outcome. Ageas rejected the complaint. It still declined to pay the 
claim for the same reasons and said the delay was because Mr C was unable to provide the 
information it requested because he was away for two months. Mr and Mrs C brought the 
complaint to us: they felt Ageas should pay £15,000 towards the cost of the stolen jewellery 
and that Ageas were responsible for the delay - not them.Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and concluded that:
Mr and Mrs C had explained why they were storing the jewellery at home and the 
claim should be paid within the terms of the policy.
The policys terms meant Mr and Mrs C should be paid for all individual  items of 
jewellery up to a value of £1,500 per item, up to a total maximum of £15,000.
 
Our investigator also awarded Mr and Mrs C £100 for their trouble and upset for the time it 
took Ageas to decide the claim. The investigator said that the delay wasnt Mr and Mr Cs 
fault.
Ageas agreed to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, but didnt think it 
should do what the investigator asked about the claim because:
The loss adjusters highlighted concerns about the level of high risk items in the 
property that Ageas had not been made aware of
If it had been fully aware of the value of the high risk items, Ageas would have either 
declined to provide contents cover or only covered the jewellery subject to conditions, 
and the circumstances of the theft did not meet these conditions
Renewal documents made it clear that Mr and Mrs C needed to make Ageas aware 
of any changes in circumstance and that Mr and Mrs C had enough time to do this.
 
Ageas suggested, however, that Mr and Mrs C may be able to claim for theft from an 
outbuilding, but that the claim would be limited to £5,000. Ageas said that this amount is the 
limit for claims from outbuildings that is set out within Mr and Mrs Cs policy.
Our investigator amended his view saying that £5,000 rather than £15,000 should be paid to 
Mr and Mrs C as the theft occurred from an outbuilding. Ageas requested an ombudsmans 
decision because:
Ageas didnt think it should have to pay £5,000 for theft from an outbuilding as the 
high risk limits and conditions within the policy would still apply
Mr and Mrs C had around 18 months before the burglary to either make alternative 
arrangements for the jewellerys storage or to make Ageas aware of it being in the 
home
During this time, the policy was renewed but Mr and Mrs C did not tell Ageas of the 
new total value of the jewellery.
 
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.  
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part by 
requiring Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation for the trouble 
and upset they had been caused by its poor handling of their claim. But I felt it reasonable 
for Ageas not to pay anything towards Mr and Mrs Cs claim for their jewellery. 
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: In reaching my decision, Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA sets out a consumers obligations when 
entering into an insurance contract and what an insurer can do - or not do - if a consumer 
fails to fulfil them. Under CIDRA, Mr and Mrs C needed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation when they renewed their contents insurance. But one of the 
considerations under CIDRA is the questions the insurer asked the consumer at renewal and 
whether this would reasonably lead the consumer to disclosing the information the insurer 
wanted. So, Ive considered whether at renewal:
Ageas asked Mr and Mrs C clear questions
Ageas provided sufficient information about what the policy would cover
The policy documentation provided sufficient information so that Mr and Mrs C ought 
reasonably to have been aware they needed to tell Ageas about the additional 
jewellery and the consequences of not doing so.
 
Im satisfied that Ageas asked Mr and Mrs C clear questions (see above) and they would 
have understood that they needed to tell Ageas at renewal that:
£15,000 would not be sufficient to replace all the high-risk items in the home
that there were unspecified, individual high-risk items worth more than the  £1,500 
limit for individual items in the home.
 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy on high risk items and outbuildings. 
The Home Insurance Policy Booklet is clear that high risk items includes jewellery and 
watches. The renewal documents asked Mr and Mrs C to check that the information within 
them was accurate and up to date, and to let Ageas know straight away if it wasnt. The 
question and answer section of the Statement of Fact was clear in setting out the information 
Ageas held about the total replacement values of high risk items  and in particular that the 
total replacement cost for high risk items concerned all the high risk items in the home.
Ageas also gave a number of clear warnings within the renewal documents about the 
consequences of not providing accurate information:
Failure to supply accurate and complete answers may mean that your policy is invalid and 
that it does not operate in the event of a claim.
If an insurer can show, under CIDRA, that the consumer made a qualifying 
misrepresentation, this decides what it is entitled to do depending on whether the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. If it was deliberate or reckless, 
the insurer can avoid the policy, refuse all claims and keep the premiums. If it was careless, 
the insurer looks at what it would have done had the consumer not made the 
misrepresentation.
Im satisfied from the questions Ageas asked and the responses from Mr and Mrs C that 
there was a qualifying misrepresentation. Ageas appear to have taken the view that the 
qualifying misrepresentation was careless and so, because of CIDRA, has assessed Mr 
and Mrs Cs claim based on what it would have done had the qualifying misrepresentation 
not been made, which it is allowed to do.
Given this, I have reviewed Ageas underwriting criteria for high risk items. Im satisfied that if 
it had been aware of the total replacement cost of all the high risk items in Mr and Mrs Cs 
home, it wouldnt have offered them home contents cover at all or have provided cover subject to conditions. I am satisfied when these conditions are considered against the 
circumstances of the theft, Ageas would have declined the claim.
So, it is reasonable for Ageas to reject Mr and Mrs Cs claim in full. Because Mr and Mrs C 
did not tell it that the total replacement cost of jewellery in the home was £30,000, it was 
unable to tell Mr and Mrs C about the conditions it would need to apply to their cover. 
Fortunately Ageas has decided to decline the claim and maintain the policy, rather than 
avoid it as it could have done under CIDRA. Nevertheless the impact on Mr and Mrs C is 
that there is no claim allowed for their loss.
I appreciate that it can sometimes take insurers some time to decide whether to pay a claim; 
however I feel Mr and Mrs C had to wait a particularly long time to find out if their claim was 
covered and feel they should be awarded more compensation for trouble and upset than 
was awarded by our investigator.
Ageas also said at one point that Mr and Mrs C may be able to make a claim of £5,000 for 
theft from an outbuilding. It later said it wouldnt consider the claim on this basis. I am 
minded to agree that the outbuildings cover would not apply here: a garage is defined by the 
policy terms as part of the home and the terms relating to high risk items concern contents 
within the home, but I feel this misinformation would have caused Mr and Mrs C some 
trouble and upset. It would help if in its response to this provisional decision, Ageas could 
further explain its position on this.
For the reasons I have given, I feel is fair and reasonable for Ageas to decline to pay Mr and 
Mrs Cs claim in full. However, at the moment I think that Mr and Mrs C should be awarded a 
total of £300 for trouble and upset caused to them by having to wait almost a year to find out 
if their claim was covered and for the misinformation from Ageas about the possibility of an 
outbuilding claim.
Ageas has accepted my provisional decision. It did not explain further its position concerning 
the outbuilding cover. I have not pursued this further with Ageas, as I was minded to agree 
the outbuilding cover would not apply and the trouble and upset caused by this confusion 
had already been included in the provisional compensation award of £300. 
Mr and Mrs Cs response did not provide any new information or evidence in addition to what 
Id already considered. In their response, Mr and Mrs C ask whether they have the right to 
make a claim of what is or are insured. My final decision  set out below - is that Ageas do 
not need to pay anything at all towards Mrs and Mrs Cs claim for their jewellery but should 
pay them £300 for their trouble and upset. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, and the responses from both parties to 
my provisional decision. 
Neither of the responses from either party has given me anything new to consider, so I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings for the reasons I gave in that decision. I 
have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs claim in part. Ageas do not need to pay anything at 
all towards Mr and Mrs Cs claim for their jewellery, but Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs C 
£300 for the trouble and upset they have suffered. 
My final decisionI uphold Mr and Mrs Cs claim in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay £300 to Mr 
and Mrs C for the trouble and upset they have suffered but I do not instruct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to pay anything at all towards Mr and Mrs Cs claim for their jewellery. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman