DRN-1438145
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) closed his credit 
card account and has demanded full repayment of the outstanding balance. He wants more 
time to be able to repay the debt.
What happened
Mr C had a credit and charge card with Amex. In early 2019 he began using his cards to 
make significant cash withdrawals and was also late in making payments due. Amex was 
also concerned that some transactions breached the card agreement. It reviewed the 
accounts and wrote to Mr C on 23 April 2019 requesting financial information. 
Amex says as it didnt hear back from Mr C and decided to close both accounts. It wrote to 
Mr C on 30 April 2019 in respect of the credit card. It said he had breached the terms of the 
account, so it would be closed, and the outstanding balance would need to be repaid. 
Mr C says he called Amex on 13 May 2019 asking for more time to make a payment that 
was due on 20 May 2019 on the charge card. Amex said it would consider this and 
subsequently agreed on 20 May 2019 that payment could be made before 24 May 2019. Mr 
C says that as well as this, Amex also agreed that if he made this payment then repayment 
of the full outstanding balance on the credit card account wouldnt be required and the 
account could remain open. 
Mr C made the payment on 24 May 2019. But then received a letter dated 25 May 2019 
saying the credit card account was closed and demanding full repayment. 
Mr C complained to Amex about this. He said it had gone back on what was agreed on the 
phone about giving him more time to clear the outstanding balance and keeping the account 
open. Amex rejected his complaint. It said the decision to close the account had already 
been made on 30 April 2019 due to how the account was being managed and the failure to 
provide information that had been requested. It said it hadnt agreed not to seek recovery of 
the debt in full balance or keep the account open. Amex subsequently referred the account 
to debt collectors.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. He didnt think 
Amex had done anything wrong.  
Mr C didnt agree and raised a further complaint point that interest was still being added to 
the account. Amex has agreed to consider this complaint point as a separate matter and will 
contact him directly about this. 
As Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusion and so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do not uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr C, but I dont think Amex has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. Im only considering Mr Cs complaint about the closure of the account rather 
than any matters subsequently. Based on the evidence I have seen, I think Amex was 
entitled to close the account - the terms and conditions allowed it to in the circumstances 
that were relevant here. Having decided to close the account for the reasons it did, I think its 
unlikely that Amex would have then agreed not to close the account. Ill explain more about 
this below. 
Amex has provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr C about this. These are correctly 
addressed and as Royal Mail delivers the vast majority of posted items, I dont think Amex 
was unreasonable in sending the letters by ordinary post. Also, Ive not seen anything that 
puts Amex under an obligation to send such letters using recorded delivery.  Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied the letters were sent. That said, I dont think the situation would have 
been any different. I say this because Mr C accepts, he had breached the account terms and 
where thats the case, the terms and conditions allowed the business to close the account 
without notice.
While Mr C says Amex agreed it wouldnt seek full repayment from him, Ive not seen 
anything persuasive to support his assertion. Amex says all call recordings are generally 
deleted after six months, so they arent available. It says that the conversations in May 2019 
were with its credit specialists who deal with account reviews. So, it is inconceivable that 
Mr C would have been given incorrect information about its intentions regarding closing the 
account and recovering the debt. 
Its unfortunate that the recordings arent available but what we do have are the system 
notes. Id expect these to capture anything that amounted to a material change. But there 
isnt anything there to show Amex had agreed to do what Mr C says it did.  In my view, as 
Amex had already decided to close the account, I dont think it would, in effect, agree a 
repayment plan without first issuing a demand for repayment, as to do so might prejudice its 
position. In addition to this, Mr C hasnt made any payments to the account since May 2019. 
So, it is the case that Amex and now its agent will continue to seek the full amount unless a 
repayment plan is agreed. As that hasnt happened here, I dont think Mr Cs position is any 
different.  And I dont think what has happened; in the account being passed over for debt 
recovery is any way unusual or unfair. 
As I dont think Amex has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealing with Mr C in relation 
to this matter, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman