DRN-3463472
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him fee-paying 
Additions and Additions Plus packaged accounts in 2003 and 2004 respectively. He has also 
complained that Tech and Travel Packs were added to his account without his consent in 
2017.
What happened
One of our adjudicators explained that were unable to consider the complaint about the sale 
of the Additions and Additions Plus packaged accounts, as Mr H had raised the complaint 
outside of the time limits that apply to complaints referred to our service.
As Mr H did not disagree with the assessment, the adjudicator then issued another 
assessment, where he concluded that the Tech and Travel Packs had not been mis-sold.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about the Tech and Travel Packs, and so 
the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the Tech and Travel Packs 
being added to Mr Hs account. 
In 2016 Barclays decided to withdraw the Additions Plus account  which came into effect in 
January 2017. When it did this, it migrated all Additions Plus accounts to a fee-free current 
account. At the same time, Barclays also added on a Tech and Travel Pack to the account 
but gave all affected account holders the choice to opt out of the Packs being added, if they 
no longer needed the cover they provided. I understand Barclays did this to ensure that 
similar insurance cover was provided for those who were relying on the cover provided by 
the Additions Plus account.
Mr H says that he never agreed to the changes that were made to the account or agreed to 
the Packs being added to his account. However, as the change to the account in January 
2017 was a migration, rather than the sale of a new account, I think that it was not 
unreasonable for Barclays to do this on an opt out, rather than opt in basis. I say this as 
the Packs were essentially introduced to replace similar existing insurance benefits that 
account holders were already paying for under the Additions Plus account.
Barclays was able to make such changes to the Additions Plus account - but only if it gave 
sufficient notice to all affected account holders. This was to ensure account holders had 
sufficient information and time to understand what changes would be made to their account. 
And to ensure account holders understood what options were available to them. I have 
therefore considered whether Barclays gave Mr H sufficient notice of the migration that took 
place on his account.
Barclays wrote to Mr H on 29 September 2016 to inform him that the Additions Plus package 
was being removed, and explained that the account would be changing in January 2017. 
Included with this letter was a summary of all the benefits that will be removed. It also 
explained what benefits will continue, via the Tech and Travel Packs.
Barclays then wrote to Mr H again, this time on 20 January 2017. This letter confirmed that 
Mr Hs account had been changed to a fee-free account that included fee-paying Tech and 
Travel Packs. The letter explained that Mr H will be charged £18 per month, for the two 
Packs and provided a summary of the insurance cover that was included with the Tech and 
Travel Packs. The letter invited Mr H to check whether the account and the benefits were still 
right for him, and if not, to contact Barclays by phone or in branch.
Having looked at copies of the letters that Barclays has provided from its system records, 
they look to have been correctly addressed. So overall, I think its more likely than not that 
they were sent to Mr H. And given the dates of the two letters, I think Barclays gave Mr H a 
reasonable amount of time, so that he could decide what to do, before the changes to the 
account were due to take place.
I note that Mr H says he didnt receive these letters and says that he moved address a 
number of times over the years. Firstly, Ive not seen anything to suggest that the address 
that the letters were sent to was incorrect. And I can also see further letters were sent to Mr 
H each year about the Tech and Travel Packs and the associated benefits that they came 
with. These letters were annual eligibility statements, and they served as a reminder of the 
insurance benefits that came with the Tech and Travel Packs and invited Mr H to check that 
the benefits were still right for him. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Barclays had done what it was required to do in terms of 
informing Mr H about the changes that were taking place on his account and explaining what 
his options were.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Barclays to 
refund the fees Mr H paid for the Tech and Travel Packs on the account, as I cant see that 
Barclays has done anything wrong when the Packs were added to Mr Hs account. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Ive not seen Barclays Bank UK Plc do anything that 
was unfair or unreasonable when it migrated Mr Hs Additions Plus account to a fee-free 
account with a Tech and Travel Pack added. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman