DRN-3889043
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold a critical illness with life cover policy and 
an income protection policy because he was told additional protection was compulsory to be 
approved for a loan.  
What happened
The background of this complaint is already well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in 
detail here. In summary, Mr C sought to take out a loan through Lloyds in November 2010. 
He became concerned he was told he had to have additional protection to be approved the 
loan. He understood the protection was compulsory. So, he complained to Lloyds. 
 
Lloyds responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr C remained unhappy and asked 
our service to investigate. Our Investigator issued a view explaining why he didnt think 
Lloyds had done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree. In summary, he said:  
He was clearly told by the first advisor the loan wouldnt be approved or offered on 
the same terms without the protection policies. Also, the advisors tone and 
demeanor implied it was compulsory. He already had cover and wouldnt have 
accepted advice unless he understood he had to have it.  
Lloyds complaint response didnt focus on the first advisors involvement, and hes 
concerned about the lack of evidence here. Lloyds apology in the response 
suggests some form of mis-selling took place. Also, their responses were 
contradictory.  
He has also questioned the timing of events and the system notes provided by 
Lloyds. 
 
He said incentives for Lloyds advisors may have contributed to mis-selling.  
Therefore, the case has passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made detailed comments in his submission to our service. I want to assure him Ive 
thought carefully about everything he has said. I also want to confirm that where a specific 
point isnt mentioned its not because I havent considered it, but its because I dont think I 
need to refer to it to reach the right decision here.  
Compulsory protection 
Ive considered Mr Cs comments about what the advisor told him. Ive also thought about 
what Mr C has said about the contents of Lloyds response letter. But I also must consider 
Lloyds position that the protection wasnt compulsory, and I cant say for certain what was 
discussed about protection with the first advisor.  
Nevertheless, there is some documentation from the time of the sale of the loan. For 
example, I have a copy of the credit agreement signed by Mr C on 29 November 2010. I 
cant see there is any reference to protection being compulsory in the terms of the loan. 
 
I have also read through the system notes. I can see the notes confirmed the application for 
a loan was accepted by 13:17 on 29 November 2010. Again, there isnt any reference to 
needing protection for the approval in these system notes. Additionally, the notes seem to 
suggest Mr C was approved for the loan before he spoke about protection with a second 
advisor. The note says he was referred to discuss critical illness and income protection. 
Ive also considered the reports produced by the second advisor in relation to the 
recommendation for protection. It does not state or imply Mr C needed the protection for the 
loan. And the advisors report confirmed Mr C had declined receiving advice for protection to 
cover his borrowings. 
 
Moreover, Ive seen correspondence from November 2010 which informed Mr C of his right 
to cancel his policy. There was no reference here to the approval of the loan. But it did give 
Mr C an opportunity to change his mind.  
Taking all of this into account, I must consider what I think is more likely to have happened 
than not. In the circumstances, I find it unlikely that the advisor explained to Mr C the 
protection was necessary for the approval of the loan. I appreciate Mr C will be considerably 
disappointed about my conclusion here, but the documentation and evidence from the time 
doesnt indicate he was told he needed protection to be approved and I cant say the policy 
was mis-sold on this basis. Nevertheless, I would still expect the advice for protection to be 
suitable.  
Suitability  
Ive considered the suitability and protection analysis reports and I can see the advisor 
sought to obtain reasonable information about Mr Cs circumstances including existing 
cover, as well as his personal and financial circumstances. The advisor noted Mr C was 32 
years old, single, under full-time employment and lived with his parents.  
In respect of existing protection, I can see the report notes he would receive sick pay from 
his employer, as well as death in service benefit. The system notes also show Mr C had a 
separate life cover policy providing cover in the event of death or terminal illness. The needs 
identified were for protection for critical illness and loss of income from sickness. Im satisfied 
these needs were reasonably identified and cover would enable Mr C to maintain his lifestyle 
in the event of a critical illness or a loss of income through sickness. He wasnt previously 
covered in these areas. 
 
The report confirmed the advisor recommended a critical illness with life cover policy with 
cover of £44,880 and initial monthly premiums of £23.16. The advisor also recommended a 
more affordable option. Mr C wanted to reduce the monthly payments so accepted a 
reduced level of cover of £40,000 with an initial monthly premium of £20.36. The benefit 
amount and monthly payment was also increasing which meant the policy would keep up 
with the rate of inflation. Im satisfied this policy met Mr Cs identified need because it would 
have helped him maintain his lifestyle in the event of critical illness.  
Mr C was also advised to take out an income protection policy providing a benefit of £750 
per month on an increasing basis. Again, Mr C chose to reduce the cover and accepted a benefit of £550 per month. This meant his initial monthly premium was £15.99. There was 
also a deferment period of 52 weeks which recognised the sick pay he would have been 
entitled to from his employer. It was also increasing to keep up with the rate of inflation. Im 
satisfied this policy met Mr Cs identified need because it would have provided income in the 
event of sickness up until retirement age. 
  
After assessing income, expenditure and liabilities, the report shows Mr C had monthly 
disposable income of £250. The financial report confirmed Mr C had given the advisor a 
budget of £33. The advisor did note Mr C didnt have a contingency fund set aside but did 
advise setting aside some savings and he would have had the capacity to do this despite the 
monthly payments. Therefore, Im satisfied the protection policies were affordable and fell 
around the amount Mr C wanted to spend per month. 
 
Mr C confirmed he already had existing cover and there was no need for this protection. Ive 
reviewed the financial report and I can see the advisor confirmed there was no need for life 
cover based on the information provided. The advisor confirmed the life cover included 
within the recommended policy came at no additional cost.  Also, the advisor confirmed the 
policy was suitable because it would support Mr C in maintaining his lifestyle should he 
suffer a critical illness.  
Mr C has also questioned whether the protection was mis-sold because Lloyds staff were 
incentivised to sell. Lloyds have already confirmed the advisor didnt receive commission 
when selling the product. In any event, Ive not found the protection recommended was 
unsuitable.  
Overall, Im satisfied the protection recommended addressed an identified need for Mr C. 
The policies taken out also appeared affordable. I appreciate there was no specific need for 
life cover, but the advisor confirmed there was no extra cost as it was included with the 
critical illness policy. Therefore, Im satisfied the recommendation was suitable.  
The 2015 review  
Ive seen Lloyds sent a letter to Mr C on 8 September 2015. Lloyds confirmed they wanted to 
check advice given to customers regarding some of the protection products. Lloyds have 
said they didnt hear from Mr C and so closed the case. Mr C has said he called them twice 
and sent a letter. Ive no record of this and neither do Lloyds. So, Im unable to conclude 
Lloyds failed to respond to Mr C.  
Nevertheless, I can see Lloyds completed a full review of the protection in 2019. Lloyds 
didnt find anything had gone wrong with the sale and they confirmed they would have 
reviewed it in the same way in 2015. So, I dont think things would have happened any 
differently had they reviewed matters in 2015. Overall, I cant say theyve done anything 
wrong here.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman