DRN-3148280
The complaint
Mr C complains as a director of P, a limited company, about Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
(Barclays) delay in dealing with its request for changes to its business account and in 
sending statements. 
Ps secretary, Mr M, is acting as representative in Ps complaint. 
What happened
P holds business bank accounts with Barclays. P made a number of requests to Barclays 
relating to its accounts, as well as instructions to make changes. Mr M says these changes 
werent carried out so he complained. More specifically, he complained, P had requested a 
hard copy monthly bank statement for its current account but never received this. Mr M says 
P receives other hard copy documents by post including a statement for Ps premium 
account so he doesnt understand why a statement cant be sent for the current account. P 
complained that Barclays were continuing to write letters addressed to a former director,    
Mr W, even though Mr M had told Barclays Mr W had resigned many years ago. P also 
complained it had requested two cheque books which hadnt been sent and P had sent 
instructions signed by two directors, Mr C and Mr P, but the requests hadnt been actioned. 
P complained it has made a number of requests over approximately two years but these 
havent been actioned.    
Barclays responded and acknowledged a complaint had been raised in December 2019 
relating to viewing rights to the business records and requesting statements. Barclays said P 
were advised Barclays couldnt supply information as Mr M didnt have any authority. 
Barclays said they sent documents to Mr M to arrange for him to have viewing rights and 
closed the complaint. They said P logged another complaint in March 2020 and they were 
unable to deal with the request as they hadnt yet received any official documents requesting 
viewing access for Mr M. This complaint was then closed. 
Barclays said they received authorisation for Mr M to have viewing access to the records 
and this was completed in July 2020. They said the current officials with signing rights are 
shown as Mr C, Mr P and Mr W. They said any two of these three signatures would be 
required to make changes or carry out transactions. Barclays said Companies House 
records show Mr W resigned his directorship but they have no record of any mandate 
documents requesting to have him removed from the account and they cant take a request 
in letter form as it doesnt contain the declarations. 
Barclays said, in order to remove Mr W from the business records, they require a mandate 
change form. Barclays said theyre also aware P wish to add on two new signatories. 
Barclays asked P to ensure Companies House records are fully up to date prior to submitting 
the mandates request. Barclays said they no longer issue mandate stationary and an 
existing signatory, preferably Mr C, needs to call the Mandate Change Team. 
Barclays explained Mr C will be taken through security and a partially completed document 
will be produced and emailed, this then needs to be printed off, completed, signed and then 
returned. 
Barclays explained the statements for the account are issued online and Mr C has online 
access for this. If P wishes to revert back to paper statements, then Barclays will need a 
written request from two signatories. Barclays said that P has previously requested copy 
statements and their records show that duplicate statements were sent out on a number of 
occasions to the address which is shown on Ps records as the business address and Mr Ms 
residential address. 
Barclays explained that the signing rights on Ps account are set up to expect two signatures 
with instructions. The evidence on the account records show that when requesting changes, 
the instructions have either been requested by Mr M, by just Mr C, or Barclays were unable 
to process the request containing two signatures as Mr Cs signature didnt match the 
signature Barclays have stored on their central records. Barclays said it is common for 
signatures to change over time and if Mr C mentions this when he calls to change the 
mandate, hell be given instructions on how to rectify this issue. Barclays dont uphold the 
complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for P. She thought Barclays hadnt made any errors and 
didnt uphold the complaint. P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
Ps account requests 
I can see P write to Barclays in June 2020 with a request to order a cheque book, order copy 
statements and set up a standing order. Barclays confirm they received this letter however 
the letter had only been signed by one signatory. I can see from this letter its been signed 
by Mr C only. Barclays say the mandate is set up on Ps account so that two people have to 
sign together so the request was rejected. I can see Barclays write to P confirming they are 
unable to process the request for bank statements as the written request hasnt been signed 
in line with Ps signing rights. Another letter is sent the same day acknowledging Ps request 
for a cheque book. Barclays say they are unable to proceed with the request as the request 
wasnt signed in line with Ps signing rights. Barclays say, to order a new cheque book, P 
should arrange for someone to visit a local branch and to have the signature/s updated and 
to request a new cheque book. Or alternatively, P can resubmit a written request with all 
parties valid signatures.  
In relation to the request for a hard copy of bank statements, Barclays say they have issued 
copy statements for the accounts on several occasions. Barclays have provided covering 
letters which show the dates they sent the copy statements. This shows they were sent in 
May, September 2019, January and March 2020. Barclays say Ps statements are set to 
online but they can change them to print but that request would need to come from the 
signatories and not Mr M. They say Mr C does have access to online banking for the 
account so he should be able to view the bank statements online. 
Barclays say the standing order request forms were signed by two signatories however only 
one signature matched what they hold on their records, in this case, it was Mr Cs signature 
which didnt match. I can see a letter is sent to P in June 2020 acknowledging its request to 
set up a new standing order. Barclays say they havent been able to carry out the request as 
the instructions included changes which were not signed and theyd like to check with P that the request is genuine before proceeding. Barclays say if P still wish to set up the standing 
order then it will need to provide new instructions. Alternatively, they enclose a form and ask 
P to arrange for it to be signed in accordance with Ps signing mandate and sent back. 
Ive seen the standing order request forms and also compared Mr Cs signature to that on 
Barclays records and I agree it doesnt match. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to not action this request and to seek verification. Barclays do however offer P 
options on how to take this request forward. I accept that signatures can change over time 
and Barclays do offer a solution in their complaint response. They say, if Mr C mentions this 
when he calls to change the mandate, he will be given instructions on how to rectify this 
issue. Barclays say a customer can update their signature with their Mandate Change Team. 
So, taking this all into account, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably here. The 
requests made by P in June werent actioned but this is down to the requests not meeting 
the relevant requirements. In relation to the hard copy statements and cheque book, the 
letter requesting these has only been signed by one signatory  not the two signatories 
required. And, in relation to the request to cancel one standing order and set up another, its 
not unreasonable for Barclays to have asked for further confirmation in view of Mr Cs 
signature.    
I can see from information provided by Mr M that previous requests have been made for the 
cheque book and bank statements. Ive seen letters sent in July 2018, December 2019 and 
March 2020. I can see these letters are all signed by Mr M. Barclays say Mr M is now set up 
on the account with simple servicing authority which means he has view only access to the 
account. Barclays say this request to add him was completed in July 2020 after receiving a 
form to add him to the account. Ive seen a copy of this form which, although signed and 
dated 15 June, was received by Barclays in July. Barclays say, prior to this being completed 
in July 2020, they wouldnt be able to accept any requests from Mr M as he didnt have 
authority on the account.        
Ps signatories 
I understand P is concerned that Mr W still appears on the account and is listed as a 
signatory. Barclays say they havent ever received a mandate change form asking for him to 
be removed from the account. Barclays say the last mandate change form they received 
from P was in 2016 which was to add Mr P to the account. Ive seen this form and it asks 
Barclays to add Mr P to the account. There is a request to remove a director from the 
account, but this isnt Mr W. 
P has provided a copy of a letter sent to Barclays in July 2016 to say Mr W resigned as a 
director many years ago and there are now only two directors, this being Mr C and Mr P. P 
ask for confirmation that Mr P is able to act as signatory. Barclays say they dont have any 
evidence of receiving this letter. They also say, even if they had received it, they wouldnt 
have been able to act on it as its signed by Mr M, who wasnt connected to the account at 
that time so they couldnt discuss the account with him. And, they cant take instructions to 
remove signatories by letter. Barclays explain P need to complete a mandate change form to 
remove Mr W from the account. I think this is correct as a previous director was removed by 
P completing a mandate change form in 2016. So, given that Ive seen no evidence P has 
completed a mandate change form asking for Mr W to be removed, I cant say Barclays have 
been unreasonable in not removing Mr W from the account.  
I do understand Mr M is frustrated at the fact that, even up to June 2020, letters for P were 
addressed to Mr W when Barclays had been notified of his resignation as far back as 2016. 
Barclays say Mr W is still listed as the correspondence title for the account and as a 
signatory as Barclays havent been provided with a mandate change form to remove him. I 
accept that information on the Companies House website shows Mr W has resigned and do understand why it will be frustrating that letters are still being addressed to him. But, 
Barclays have set out the process P needs to follow to remove Mr W from Ps account and 
to prevent letters being addressed to him. We dont have the power to tell a business what 
their processes should be. In this case, I can see Barclays have a process to remove a 
director from an account and I think theyre applying this process fairly to P.   
I do acknowledge Mr Ms point that P isnt a commercial business and the directors are in 
full-time employment so dont necessarily have the time to download bank statements online 
to forward to Mr M. While Mr C downloading the statements is an option for P to get a 
printed copy of the statements, I can see Barclays do offer an alternative, which is for two 
signatories to sign a letter requesting this change.
Following our investigators view, I can see Mr M has responded with specific points relating 
to the service P received from Barclays. He says the standing order form set out two 
instructions; one was to cancel an existing standing order and another to set up a new 
standing order. Mr M queries why Barclays acted on one instruction  the cancellation  but 
didnt action the new standing order. I do understand Mr Ms point but I dont agree Barclays 
have acted unreasonably here. A payment out of an account for a standing order carries 
greater risk for a customer and business if that later proves to be incorrect. Whereas, 
cancelling a standing order doesnt carry the same level of risk of a payment being 
potentially made to an authorised party. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
ask for verification on the instruction to set up a new payment.  
Mr M says that communication from Barclays wasnt helpful and he doesnt feel their 
business team took responsibility for resolving Ps issues. He feels things wouldve been 
resolved much quicker if Barclays had assigned P its own account manager. I do understand 
Mr Ms point but Barclays have explained that, prior to July 2020, Mr M didnt have authority 
on the account so they couldnt action his requests. We dont have the power to tell a 
business what their process should be in relation to account management and whether an 
account manager should be assigned to business customers, but, given Barclays have a 
process, I think its more likely than not an account manager wouldve still set out the same 
signatory requirements in line with Ps mandate. 
I can see Mr M also points out there were queries he raised which to date he still hasnt had 
a response to. Mr M refers to a query he set out in his letter to Barclays in July 2016. I do 
acknowledge this but Barclays say they never received this letter. But, in any event, the 
query Mr M raises relates to Ps account information and at the point he sent this letter he 
didnt have simple servicing authority to access this information. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays not to provide this information. 
Mr M says the mandate change form sent in 2016 excluded Mr W so this shouldve been 
sufficient to remove him from the account. And, he says this was followed up by a letter 
making it clear there were only two directors so Barclays couldve informed P about the 
steps to take. I acknowledge Mr Ms point but, while I agree the mandate change form in 
2016 doesnt make reference to Mr W, hes not included in the section which says Remove 
Authorised Persons from your Account(s), so I cant say it was unreasonable for Barclays 
not to remove Mr W from the account. As mentioned above, another directors details are 
provided in this section, and this director was then removed from the account. This 
demonstrates that Barclays do have a specific process for removing directors from an 
account. And, I believe had this process been followed, then Mr W wouldve been removed. 
In addition to this, the mandate change form has been signed by two directors and, under a 
heading Signing Arrangement it says, Instructions to Barclays must be given by:, a box is 
then ticked which says, Any two authorised persons. So, I think this demonstrates P was 
aware of the signatory requirements when providing instructions to Barclays.   I can see Mr M raises concerns about the length of time taken by Barclays to deal with Ps 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general 
rule, and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt 
be able to look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, 
then we can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer 
experience. In this case, I cant say the issues which P raises about the complaints handling 
are an extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the 
complaint handling part of the complaint.      
In summary, while I understand the impact this has had on P, I cant say Barclays have 
acted unreasonably here. The information shows Barclays have processes which theyve 
applied fairly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman