DRN-4371936
The complaint
Miss C, through a representative, says NewDay Ltd, trading as Opus, irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
Miss C applied for a credit card from NewDay in May 2018. It was approved with a limit of 
£900. She was then given four credit limit increases between June 2021 and May 2022 
culminating in a limit of £5,150. 
Miss C says proper checks were not undertaken by NewDay before issuing her credit card. 
She would like a refund of all interest and charges that were applied to the account plus 
statutory interest at 8%.
NewDay says all its lending decisions were based on reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure the credit was affordable for Miss C. However when Miss C complained to it, it 
refunded interest and fees from April and May 2023, which amounted to £325.24, as a 
goodwill offer. When Miss C brought her complaint to this service NewDay made an offer to 
refund all interest and charges applied to balances above the initial limit of £900. 
However, our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint in full. He said that NewDays checks 
showed Miss C did not have the disposable income to afford the credit card. 
NewDay disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said as Miss C had been able 
to make repayments far in excess of the contractual minimum, it was only fair to ask how if 
she had no disposable income. It has not had sight of her bank statements to understand 
this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the 
credit it offered to Miss C was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the credit limits it offered Miss C, how much she had to repay 
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew 
about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Miss Cs application and each limit increase; if so, did it make fair 
lending decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would 
most likely have shown. I also need to think about, bearing in mind the circumstances at the 
time of each additional advance in credit, whether there was a point at which NewDay ought 
reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Cs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit.
I can see as part of NewDays checks when Miss C applied it considered her income, 
household income, total level of borrowing held elsewhere and monthly repayment costs  
and for the limit increases it also looked at how she was managing both her Opus account 
and her other debt elsewhere. 
I think these checks were proportionate at application given the stage in the lending 
relationship and the among of credit offered, but Im not satisfied they were for the limit 
increases. I think NewDay needed to take steps check Miss Cs income and outgoings 
had not changed significantly as it extended her borrowings. I cannot see that because she 
seemed to be managing a limit of £900 it could be assumed she could manage a limit over 
five times higher sustainably. However I wont comment further on this as I do not think 
NewDay made a fair decision at the point of application based on the information it did 
gather. Ill explain why.
NewDay learnt that Miss Cs monthly net income was £1,245 and her monthly housing and 
living costs totalled £1,400. So even before taking into account the cost of repaying her 
existing £1,700 active debt, she already had no disposable income to allow her to take on, 
and sustainably repay, additional credit. I note there was additional household income but 
this application was for a sole name account, so Miss C was solely liable for repaying the 
debt. And even putting this to one side, NewDay did not take any steps to understand 
household disposable income.
As its checks showed Miss C had no disposable income I find NewDay was wrong to lend to 
Miss C. It did not have the assurances it needed that Miss C would be able to make her 
repayments without borrowing to repay, or suffering some other financial harm.
NewDay argues that Miss C went on to repay more than the contractual minimum and wants 
evidence to understand how she did this. But here I am considering the affordability of the 
initial lending decision based on the data NewDay gathered at that time  that it was obliged 
to respond to. And I cannot fairly conclude it made a responsible lending decision based on 
its own affordability assessment. 
It follows as I think NewDay was wrong to open the card, all the subsequent credit limit 
increases were wrong.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss C
should pay back the amounts she has borrowed. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already
refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss C along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Miss Cs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss C for the remaining amount. Once Miss C 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply 
the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Cs complaint. NewDay Ltd, trading as Opus, must put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman