DRN-1913771
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society wont pay him £100 under its Recommend 
a Friend scheme.
What happened
Nationwide, in common with some other bank account providers, operated a scheme 
whereby existing current account holders could recommend friends to open an account. If 
the friends application was accepted, both they and the existing customer would, subject to 
certain conditions being met, receive a payment of £100 each. 
In or about May 2019 Mr S recommended a friend, Mr D, who applied to switch his current 
account to Nationwide. By early June, and not having heard anything more, Mr S says that 
he and Mr D went to a branch to check on the application. They werent told about any 
problems with it. Later in June, Mr S was told that Mr D needed to take some more steps, 
but assumed things were progressing as they should. 
By August Mr S still hadnt received the payment he was expecting and so queried the 
position with Nationwide. It explained that, although Mr D had opened an account, it wasnt 
one that qualified under the Recommend a Friend scheme. Nationwide would only make a 
payment if the person who had been recommended was able to open one of the accounts 
listed in the terms that applied to the scheme.
Mr S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She acknowledged that Nationwide hadnt kept Mr S properly informed about the 
application (for which it had offered Mr S some modest compensation) but explained that Mr 
D hadnt met the criteria under the scheme. She thought that Nationwide had acted fairly in 
the circumstances. Mr S didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. He said that Mr D did qualify for the correct account, but that Nationwide 
had opened the wrong one.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S started the process of recommending Mr D to Nationwide, he received an email 
with a link which he needed to share with Mr D. That email also included a link to the terms 
and conditions of the offer. Those terms said that the recommended friend needed to 
complete a full switch to transfer an existing current account with another provider to a 
Nationwide FlexAccount, FlexDirect or FlexPlus account. No other account would qualify.
The terms also said that payments would be made if all the conditions were met and the full 
switch completed successfully.  
Nationwide explained to Mr S that it had opened a FlexBasic account for Mr D. That wasnt 
one of the qualifying accounts listed in the scheme terms, and so no payment was due to Mr 
S. 
Mr S says that Nationwide opened the wrong account for Mr D who, he says, did qualify for a 
FlexAccount. However, whether Nationwide decided that it could only offer Mr D a FlexBasic 
account or Mr D applied for that account, I think its clear he didnt meet the criteria of the 
Recommend a Friend scheme. He hadnt opened one of the accounts listed in the scheme 
terms.
Mr S says too that the branch should have told him and Mr D that the FlexBasic account 
didnt qualify. The accounts that did qualify were however set out in the terms which Mr S 
had been sent, so I dont believe there was any reason to repeat them. If, as Mr S suggests, 
Mr D had applied for a FlexAccount, there would have been no reason to discuss the 
FlexBasic account in any event. 
Mr S also says that Mr D could have taken advantage of similar schemes with other 
providers if hed known he wouldnt qualify under the Nationwide scheme. It doesnt 
necessarily follow of course that Mr S would have benefited from this, unless he had other 
accounts with those providers, but there doesnt appear to be any reason why Mr D couldnt 
have applied to switch to one of those providers once it became clear he didnt qualify under 
the Nationwide scheme. 
For these reasons, I believe that Nationwides offer of compensation in this case is fair in the 
circumstances.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society to do any more to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman