DRN-3350600
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of Mr and Mrs K that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) incorrectly handled a claim under their home contents policy. Mr and Mrs K are 
represented in this case by another person also called Mr K, but for ease I will refer to Mr 
and Mrs K throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a home contents policy with Lloyds covering their mobile phone. In 
October 2020 their phone was damaged when it was partially covered in water. They 
contacted Lloyds to make a claim and they say they were told their phone would be replaced 
on a like for like basis. 
As Mr and Mrs K wanted to replace their phone immediately, they took the phone to the 
manufacturer of it who told them it was beyond economical repair. The model of phone that 
had been damaged wasnt available anymore, and they bought a newer version (which is the 
second generation) of it from the manufacturer. 
Mr and Mrs K then spoke to Lloyds who told them that it wouldnt regard the second 
generation of the phone as being like for like and that a different model of phone from the 
same manufacturer was what it regarded as the correct one. It said it would pay £136.01 
towards the claim and that the cost of upgrading the phone would have to be paid by Mr and 
Mrs K. As Lloyds would have normally provided a replacement from one of its suppliers, 
under its terms and conditions it says that it would only pay the amount it would pay its 
supplier for the phone, less Mrs Ks excess, making a final amount of £136.01.
Mr and Mrs K werent happy about this and complained. They said they thought theyd been 
misled by Lloyds and that Lloyds should have replaced the phone with its second generation 
version rather than an alternative model. Lloyds said it didnt think itd done anything wrong. 
It explained that its policy said it would replace the phone with the nearest equivalent and 
that its terms and conditions meant it would only pay what it would have paid to its supplier. 
As Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to this service. They want 
Lloyds to pay for the cost of the second generation phone and are unhappy about the stress 
and inconvenience they say it has caused them.
Our investigator looked into it and said he didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. He 
said Lloyds had done what the policy said in that itd paid for the nearest equivalent model 
and would settle the claim in cash because Mr and Mrs K had already chosen to pay for a 
new one.
He listened to the calls Mr and Mrs K made to Lloyds to make their claim and said he 
thought it was clear Lloyds would pay for a replacement of the model of phone that was 
damaged, rather than a newer upgraded version.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with the view. They said that the manufacturer had told them that 
the equivalent model was the new version and should be the like for like replacement. Mr 
and Mrs K said that they believed the manufacturer should provide the definitive answer on 
what was like for like.
They asked for their complaint to be reviewed, so it has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Lloyds policy wording explains how it handles claims for damaged phones like Mr and Mrs 
Ks. The relevant part of the wording is:
How we settle a claim under your Personal belongings and money cover
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the 
nearest equivalent less any discounts obtainable.
At the time the phone was damaged, its my understanding that the exact same model 
wasnt for sale by the manufacturer as it had been withdrawn about a year before. If that 
model was still for sale, Mr and Mrs K would have been supplied with a new phone identical 
to their old one. 
But as this original model had been withdrawn at the time the damage happened, Lloyds 
took the view that a different model was the most appropriate equivalent.
Mr and Mrs K have corresponded at some length with this service about what the equivalent 
model should have been and I agree with them that its not the role of this service to 
establish and compare exact technical specifications. 
But I dont agree with them that the manufacturer is able to provide a definitive view on this 
point either. The manufacturer is a commercial organisation and when asked to recommend 
a replacement phone, its very likely that a commercial company will offer an option that it 
currently has in stock in its shop rather than considering all options.
The manufacturer has written to Mr and Mrs K and says the closest device in terms of 
specification and price that we sold at this time was the second generation. But I dont think 
that means it was the nearest equivalent model to the phone that was damaged, just that it 
was the nearest equivalent that it stocked at the time.
The manufacturer has also said that at the time of the damage it didnt sell the replacement 
model offered by Lloyds either. But Lloyds were still able to obtain this model as new through 
its suppliers, and it was available through retail outlets. 
Lloyds policy wording says it will pay the cost of the nearest equivalent and I think it has 
done this by agreeing to pay the costs of the different model. I know Mr and Mrs K will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I think Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with its terms and conditions and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman