DRN-3066340
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the charges that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) applied when he handed back a car he had acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr S entered into a hire agreement with MBFS to acquire a brand-new 
car. The agreement was for 24 months. Mr S handed back the car in November 2020, and 
MBFS asked him to pay around £579 for damages to the car. This was for damage to the 
car that MBFS considered was outside of their Vehicle Return Standards (VRS).
Mr S said that the inspector who came to collect the car, and did the first inspection, found 
marks and scuffs on four of the alloy wheels. But Mr S said that he would only accept that he 
should be responsible to pay for damage to two of the alloy wheels. Also, Mr S said that he 
would hope that considering he handed the car back with low mileage and in superb 
condition, MBFS would not concern themselves with those minor marks as the car would sell 
for a premium amount of money.
Mr S is unhappy that he later received an email, which said that a second inspection was 
required. Mr S is also unhappy that in the first inspection report it said that the Customer 
[was] unable to sign due to CV-19 but is aware of the inspection results. Mr S said this is a 
falsehood, and that this was not discussed. He said that he would not have agreed to a 
second inspection without being present, and said that it is unacceptable for a second 
inspection to be done 10 days later. Mr S said that it was unfair as he has no proof of what 
has happened to the car after the inspector had taken it away, nor any idea of the conditions 
the car was kept in. Mr S also said that the film taken by the inspector who picked up the car, 
was taken a good while after he had already gone around the car, at which point it was 
darker outside and it was far worse compared to when the inspection started. 
In February 2020, MBFS wrote to Mr S and said that in the intentions pack they informed 
him that, if the weather conditions were poor and/or the car is not clean, it may only be 
possible to perform a partial inspection. They said the document explains that, in such a 
case, they would complete the inspection later, and if they do find any damage, which they 
believe is outside of their VRS, Mr S would be supplied with an invoice accordingly. MBFS 
explained in this correspondence, which followed the initial inspection, that the car was taken 
to a site and registered there within 46 minutes after traveling 19 miles. They said that, 
during this time, the car did not move until it was inspected and incurred no damage from the 
point of collection. They said that on 23 November 2020, the car underwent its second 
inspection. This inspection revealed that there was around £579 of damage to the car, which 
MBFS considered was outside of their VRS.
Later, in a follow up correspondence to Mr S, MBFS also explained that, while the car was in 
his possession, he is liable for the deprecation caused, and whilst other areas of the car are 
not damaged, this wouldnt negate the damaged areas. MBFS said that they may not be 
selling the car and its potential sale value wouldnt negate the damage present either. They 
explained that they provided Mr S with a copy of their VRS at the start of his agreement, and 
six months prior to its end date. In this correspondence they go on, and say that the charges 
have been raised correctly and that no damage was caused in transit. They explained that 
on the first inspection report it stated that "Customer unable to sign due to CV-19 but is 
aware of the inspection results" because, due to the COVID-19 pandemic they have taken 
safety measures to protect the inspector and the collector of the car.
Unhappy with MBFSs response Mr S brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator, so, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this, and this simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr S acquired the car under a hire agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Mr Ss agreement with MBFS 
sets out that he needs to maintain the car in a condition which is consistent with the VRS 
and, if he does not look after the car properly, he will be responsible to compensate MBFS 
for the cost of repairs. 
British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) also set out industry guidance on 
what is considered fair wear and tear standards. So, Ive taken this guidance into account 
along with the MBFSs VRS, when deciding whether MBFS acted fairly and reasonably in 
the charges they applied. Ive also taken into account the age and mileage of the car when it 
was returned.
When Mr S acquired the car it was brand-new, so I think its reasonable to consider the 
BVRLA standards when deciding whether the damage is outside of reasonable wear and 
tear. Since the car was brand new when acquired by Mr S, most likely it was in a perfect 
condition, and free from minor defects. With that said, the car, most likely, had no scratches 
or damage. So, I reviewed the inspection report to see if the damage on the car was outside 
of fair wear and tear. I know there was some damage on the second inspection report for 
which Mr S was not charged, so Ive only considered the damage for which he was charged.   
Left and right-hand rear alloys 
The BVRLA guidance sets out that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable, and VRS sets out that minor scuffing or 
damage under 25mm to the car alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face are acceptable. The pictures from the second inspection report show that both alloys being charged for have 
scuffs which exceed 50mm. So, I consider these to be representative of damage that is 
outside of fair wear and tear.
Left-hand front tyre   
The BVRLA guidance sets out that there must be no damage to the sidewall or tread, and 
VRS specify that any gouge, crack, cut, torn or plugged tyre side wall are not acceptable. 
From the pictures provided in the second inspection report, I can see that there is damage to 
the sidewall of the tyre which looks like a gouge. So, this is damage which I consider to be 
representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear.
Right-hand front wing 
The BVRLA guidance sets out that surface scratches of 25mm or less, where the primer or 
bare metal is not showing, are acceptable provided they can be polished out. MBFSs VRS 
state that light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing 
are acceptable. From the pictures provided in the second inspection report, I can see that 
the scratches are more than 25mm and through the top coat. So, there is damage which I 
consider to be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear. 
Mr S is not disputing that the above damage is evident on the second inspection report, but 
he said he didnt hand the car back with damage that was outside of fair wear and tear. He 
feels that the damage must have been done after the inspector collected the car. Mr S is 
unhappy that a second inspection was done, because he said the inspector who collected 
the car, never discussed this with him. He also said it was unacceptable for the inspection to 
be done 10 days later.
On the first inspection report, I can see that it was noted that a second inspection is required. 
It was also noted that the inspection conditions were poor and that it was dark. But Mr S has 
mentioned that this was not discussed with him, and he is unhappy that the first inspection 
noted that due to Covid-19 it was not signed by the customer. 
MBFS said that in the intentions pack they provided Mr S with, it was stated that if the 
weather conditions are poor and/or the car is not clean, it may only be possible to perform a 
partial inspection. They said the document explains that in such a case they would complete 
the inspection later. They also mentioned that due to the Covid-19 they have taken safety 
measures to protect the inspector and collector of the car.
I was not present during the discussions Mr S had with the inspector, so I dont know what 
was discussed. But Ive taken into consideration what Mr S and MBFS have said. Due to 
government guidelines around Covid-19 I dont think it was unfair for MBFS, and businesses 
operating on their behalf, such as the inspector who collected the car, to adapt the way they 
work. So, I cant say that it was unreasonable that safety measures were taken to protect the 
inspector by refraining from having the inspection report signed. And Ive also considered 
how poor the pictures quality was from the first report due to being taken when it was 
already dark, so I think it is reasonable that a second inspection was needed. 
Ill never know exactly when the damage was caused, so I reach my conclusion on the 
balance of probabilities. That being when did the damage to the car in question most likely 
happen. Was it before or after the car was collected? So, Ive considered that Mr S is 
adamant that he kept his car in superb condition, but Ive also considered what MBFS said. 
That being that the car, after the first inspection, was taken to a site and registered there 
within 46 minutes after traveling 19 miles, and that during the 10 days the car did not move until it was inspected. So, taking everything into account, on balance, I feel that its most 
likely the damage was caused before the first inspection. 
Mr S travelled a total of around 6,373 miles in the car, while between the two inspections the 
car only travelled about 20 miles, as seen from the recorded mileage on both reports. Ive 
also taken into account that Mr S told us that the car was in superb condition, but he does 
actually agree that two of the alloys had damage that was above fair wear and tear. 
Considering everything, I dont feel I can say that, most likely, the car was damaged after it 
was collected considering the short distance it travelled between the two inspections. And 
considering Ive not been given sufficient evidence to show otherwise. Hence, I dont think 
MBFS acted unreasonably by invoicing Mr S £579.22 for the items that are outside of fair 
wear and tear. 
Whilst I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S, looking at all the 
evidence available to me I think, on balance, it was fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge 
him for the damage. So, Im not asking MBFS to remove any of the charges. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman