DRN-2982897
The complaint
Mr B complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as NFU Mutual unfairly held him liable for a road collision that he says wasnt his fault.
Any reference I make to NFU also includes its agents.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr Bs car was involved in a collision. Mr B says that a HGV lorry hit his 
rear bumper and continued to scrape his car up to the drivers door while he was stationary. 
Mr B says he then swung his car in front of the lorry in order to prevent the lorry from driving 
off.
Mr B reported this to NFU. Initially, NFU said that they would dispute liability on the case. But 
it then received some dashcam footage from the third-party. After it assessed the dash-
footage, NFU decided to hold Mr B liable for the incident. It said that based on what it had 
seen from the footage, it didnt think it would be able to defend Mr B in court if it came to it. 
And so, it agreed to cover the costs to the third-party.
Mr B wasnt happy about this. He says that the footage shows him pulling out in front of the 
lorry in order to stop it driving off  he says the collision happened seconds before this and 
the dashcam footage shows the lorry swaying from the impact. Mr B has also sent this 
service photos of the damage sustained to his car that he says could have only been caused 
by lorry driving into him.
Mr B says that he was without his car for seven weeks while it was being repaired, hes lost 
£350 in excess and he has a protected no claims discount (NCD) that now has one incident 
against it  any further incidents would result in the NCD being removed.
To put things right, Mr B would like his no claims reinstated, the third-party insurer to accept 
liability and an apology from NFU.
NFU responded to Mr Bs complaint but it didnt uphold it. It said Whilst I understand from 
your point of view that you feel you were not at fault for the accident, we assess all claims 
based on the prospects of success, should the case go to court. Having reviewed the 
Dashcam footage with our Claims Department, we would likely struggle to successfully 
defend this claim with the evidence available. I am therefore satisfied with their decision 
regarding liability.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr B, but they didnt uphold his complaint. They 
said that they thought NFU had fairly assessed Mr Bs claim and inline with the policy terms 
and conditions, so they didnt think NFU needed to do anything to put things right. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings and he maintains that he was not liable for 
the incident. He provided more photos of the damage caused to his car which he says could 
have only been caused by the lorry colliding with him. Mr B has reiterated that the incident 
itself occurred off camera  and he only pulled in front of the lorry to prevent it from driving 
off. Mr B has also added that the lorry driver was driving a righthand drive lorry on roads that 
he was unfamiliar with. 
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a 
court of law. What Im deciding is whether NFU has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that NFU can take over the settlement of the claim. 
So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it - or it can decide whether it is 
prepared to defend Mr B if the matter went to court. Court proceedings can be expensive 
and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will consider the costs involved and the 
likelihood of success in making these decisions. That might mean NFU makes a decision Mr 
B disagrees with, as has happened here.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration with being held liable for a collision he says wasnt his 
fault. While I cant make a decision as to who was liable for the collision, I have looked to 
see if NFU have acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters and Ive checked it has made a 
reasonable assessment of the claim. 
Ive seen that Mr B feels as though NFU hasnt taken into account his version of events 
before holding him liable. But I can see that Mr B sent some commentary and pictures of the 
incident and I can also see that he spoke to NFU about the incident on a few occasions 
before it decided to hold him liable. So I dont find that he hasnt been given the opportunity 
to give his version of events.
Mr B has maintained that the lorry hit him while he was stationary. But the lorry driver says 
that the collision happened when Mr B tried to undertake him. It isnt unusual for there to be 
a difference in what both parties say happened. But NFU need to ensure that it uses all of 
the other evidence available to come to a fair outcome.
In this case, the main evidence NFU has relied on is the dashcam footage provided by the 
third-party insurer. I can see that NFU have had a number of its specialist claims handlers 
review this, and they have all come to the same opinion that its more likely Mr B was liable 
for the collision. I know that Mr B strongly disagrees with this, and Ive read everything he 
has said about what happened. But four specialists have reviewed the footage and thought it 
more likely that Mr B was at fault for the incident. It has also said that it didnt think it would be able to defend Mr B in court based on that evidence and so it decided to accept liability 
on Mr Bs behalf.
Ive also looked at the photos Mr B sent to this service of the damage caused to his car. It 
wasnt clear to me if NFU had seen these photos or not. So I forwarded these onto it to 
ensure it had taken these into account when it determined liability. NFU responded and said 
that it had seen the photos. It said that these had been reviewed by an engineer too. 
However, they still felt that the damage to Mr Bs car and the lorry is consistent with crossing 
lanes into the lorry.
Based on what Ive said, I think NFU have used all the evidence it has available to assess 
Mr Bs claim  and it has got professional opinions of engineers to decide what they think is 
most likely to have happened. 
I know this will be very disappointing to Mr B. And I appreciate his strength of feeling about 
the situation. But for the reasons Ive already stated, I dont think NFU has done anything 
wrong, based on the evidence it has available.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman