DRN-3364893
The complaint
Mr V has complained about Lowell Portfolio I Ltd purchasing a debt which he says isnt his.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit account that was opened in 2017, defaulted in 
2019, and was sold to Lowell in 2021.
After Lowell bought the account, Mr V complained that the debt wasnt his. Lowell raised this 
with the original creditor, who provided some evidence it was Mr Vs account. They said the 
credit facility was linked to Mr Vs genuine account hed had since 2003, theyd not received 
any prior fraud reports, hed spoken to them previously about his account and not reported 
fraud, and hed made previous payments towards the facility by direct debit.
Mr V came to our service. He felt that Lowell hadnt proven the debt was his, and he was 
unhappy they were reporting a default in his name.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Lowell werent responsible for how the account was opened or spent on, so 
they helped Mr V raise a complaint against the original creditor instead. They explained that 
Lowell had bought the debt in good faith and raised Mr Vs dispute with the original creditor 
as they should have, so they didnt think Lowell had done anything substantially wrong here.
Mr V didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its worth keeping in mind that Lowell did not open this account nor administrate it 
when it was being spent on. That was done by the original creditor. So a complaint about the 
opening of the account or its spending would be best directed to the original creditor  Lowell 
are not the ones primarily responsible for those things. And it wouldnt really be fair for me to 
hold Lowell responsible for the actions of the original creditor when we can look at such a 
complaint against that lender directly instead. I understand that Mr V has raised a complaint 
against the original creditor now, and he can ask us to take that further if hed like.
Similarly, it was the original creditor who registered the default, not Lowell. Lowell are just 
continuing to report the same default that the original creditor registered, which Lowell are 
required to do now that they own the account. So theyve not done anything wrong there.
Lowell bought the debt in good faith, and the debt wasnt in dispute at the time, so I dont 
think they did anything wrong in purchasing the account. Of course, once Mr V made them 
aware of his dispute, I would expect Lowell to have raised this in turn with the original 
creditor. But I can see that Lowell did do that, and in good time. And they received 
information from the original lender which supported the debt being genuine.
For example, it was set up in Mr Vs name, at his registered address  which he confirmed in 
his other correspondence was an address of his around the time this account was opened. 
And it was set up using his email address  the same one hes still using to contact Lowell 
and this service. It was also linked to his genuine original payment account, which Mr V had 
been using since as far back as 2003.
The credit agreement and other correspondence was sent to Mr Vs genuine email address. 
And with each transaction, the original creditor would send him an email to confirm what hed 
paid for. So it appears Mr V was aware of this credit facility and how it was being used at the 
time. But according to the original creditor, Mr V never reported any fraud before, even when 
he contacted them about other matters.
According to the original lenders records, goods were sent to Mr Vs registered address. 
The spending in question was for things like groceries, household goods, streaming 
subscriptions, and so on. And the spending took place slowly over a lengthy period, whereas 
a fraudster would want to spend as much as possible as quickly as possible before the fraud 
is discovered. This all suggests the spending was genuine.
Lastly, the account received numerous payments over the years. This also strongly suggests 
the account was not fraudulent, as fraudsters dont generally pay off their fraudulent debts  
otherwise it would rather defeat the point of the crime. According to the original creditor, the 
payments came from a genuine direct debit. 
So Lowell received substantial information to support that the account was genuine. And 
they didnt receive anything which substantiated it was fraudulent. So I cant see that Lowell 
did anything wrong in continuing to pursue the debt. I dont agree with Mr V that they failed 
their duty of care in any reasonable sense. Again, its worth bearing in mind that Lowell did 
not open the account or allow it to be spent on  they just bought it in good faith.
Of course, if Mr V would like us to look into the accounts opening and spending in more 
detail then, as I said before, he can ask us for help with his complaint against the original 
creditor.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint about Lowell Portfolio I Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman