DRN-3429300
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC debited his account with a series of payments 
totalling approximately £8,000 which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
Between January and August 2020, a series of approximately 625 payments were made 
from Mr Ps account to a specific gambling merchant. These transactions totalled around 
£18,500  though Mr P told our service there were about £8,000 of disputed transactions. 
There were credits in which were winnings from the gambling merchant which totalled 
approximately £11,000. Mr P strongly denies that he has any relationship with the merchant, 
and disputes making or otherwise authorising any payments to them. He said he hadnt 
noticed them on his account as he hadnt been keeping an eye on it during the period of the 
disputed transactions. He explained this was as he was unemployed, so he wasnt expecting 
any money to come into the account. Mr P said he noticed the transactions in September 
2020, when he checked his account as he was working again and expecting his salary to be 
paid in. 
Mr P said he doesnt know who completed the transactions, and he doesnt think it is 
someone known to him such as his family, whom he lives with. He said he hadnt given his 
card or details to anyone. Mr P advised Barclays that around December 2019 both his email 
and WiFi had been hacked after he clicked on a link from an email, and that he believes this 
is how his details were compromised and how someone was able to fraudulently transact on 
his account. He said he contacted the gambling merchant, who confirmed to him that there 
was no account held with them in his name or address. 
Mr P raised numerous complaints with Barclays to dispute the transactions. Barclays raised 
numerous chargeback requests with the merchant. Some of these went undefended, so 
were refunded to Mr Ps account. But they did defend some and provided details from the 
gambling account used to make the transactions. When Barclays completed their 
investigation, they declined to refund the disputed transactions on the grounds that they 
believed he had authorised them. They said this was because: 
There was no clear point of compromise for his card and details; 
When defending the chargebacks, the gambling merchant provided compelling 
evidence of an account held by Mr P with them, which included his correct name, 
mobile number and address. They explained there was no clear point of compromise 
for these details either; 
Mr P accessed his online banking often during this period, using their PIN Sentry 
device to do so. This required Mr Ps card and PIN, which again there was no clear 
point of compromise for. Moreover, this would have meant he was aware of the 
payments but didnt report them until August.
He moved winnings from the gambling merchant between his current and savings 
account, which implies that he was fully aware of the transactions. 
There were no further attempts to use Mr Ps card from September 2020, when he 
had contacted them to dispute the transactions. This implied whoever was using his 
card details knew the debit card had been cancelled and was no longer of use to 
them. 
There were a lot of matches between the IP address used to complete transactions, 
and the IP address used to access his online banking. 
They also decided that they no longer wished to do business with Mr P, so they closed his 
account in November 2020. 
Mr P wasnt happy, so he complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
what happened and didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld. They said the 
payments were most likely completed by Mr P himself as there was no clear point of 
compromise for all the personal data required to make the payments, no clear explanation 
for how they went unnoticed for all those months despite the online banking logins, and no 
benefit to an unknown third party in possession of the details needed to transact on Mr Ps 
account to do so on a gambling website where the winnings would, and did, return to Mr Ps 
account. Mr P didnt agree. So, it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am reaching the same conclusion as our investigator previously set out 
and for broadly the same reasons. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr P liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. Im satisfied 
from the banks technical evidence that the payments were properly authenticated - Mr Ps 
genuine card details were used to make the disputed transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Barclays to hold Mr P liable. So, I need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that Mr P consented to these transactions being made. 
From what Ive seen, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr P authorised the transactions. 
This is because: 
The disputed transactions were made using Mr Ps genuine card details, but Mr P 
said he had the card with him during this period. Whilst I accept its possible, Im not 
persuaded that it is the most likely explanation here that an unknown third party took 
Mr Ps card and then returned it to him without him noticing or obtained the details by 
hacking his email and WiFi; 
I say this because the gambling merchant provided Barclays with evidence that the 
account was set up using Mr Ps genuine details including his name, date of birth, 
phone number, copy of his legal identification (namely a passport or driving license), 
and a recent household bill. This causes me concern over the truthfulness of Mr Ps 
account of what happened as he hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how an 
unknown third party would have obtained these details  but further, I can see no 
benefit to an unknown third party to use genuine details such as the phone number 
or email address. The gambling merchant use these to contact their customers  and 
if Mr P were not one then I would have expected him to have been alerted to the 
scam sooner  or an unknown third party would have likely seen this as a risk that 
could be easily avoided. 
Further to this, Mr P said that he hadnt checked his online banking during this 
period, which is why he hadnt noticed the transactions. But the technical evidence 
from Barclays showed that there were around 155 successful online banking logins 
during this period. Some of these logins used PINsentry  a device which the person logging in would put the genuine card and PIN into in order to access online 
banking. There was no clear point of compromise for his card and PIN which were 
required for these logins, so it seemed most likely that they were completed by Mr P. 
And if Mr P was logging in throughout this period, but wasnt making these 
transactions, I would find it very unusual that he didnt notice and report them more 
promptly. 
The same IP address was used to make the gambling transactions as Mr P used to 
check his online banking as far back as 2017, so the transactions were most likely 
completed on one of his devices or at least through his internet connection  and Mr 
P hadnt provided a point of compromise for these. Whilst he said his WiFi had been 
hacked, he hasnt provided any evidence of this and I think really this implies that the 
transactions were completed on a device owned and operated by Mr P. 
Any winnings from the gambling merchant are refunded to the original bank account 
the bets were paid from  indeed Mr Ps account received approximately £11,000 in 
winnings. I cannot see a benefit to a fraudster making these transactions, as they 
couldnt have accessed the benefits of winning. If a third party had accessed all of 
the details required to make these payments, as well as access to online banking 
details, legal identification documents and recent bills, it seems highly unlikely that 
they would simply use them to gamble when they may not even be able to access 
the winnings  as Mr P could have noticed the transactions and cancelled the card at 
any time. I suggest that an unknown third party in possession of such valuable 
personal information would be more likely to have ordered goods or services that 
they could benefit from, spent as much money as quickly as possible, or even taken 
out credit in Mr Ps name  rather than gamble frequently over many months. There 
were also other actions on the account during this time, such as moving winnings to 
and from his savings account, done on online banking. If a fraudster had this much 
access to his account, they could have simply emptied it. 
There were credits into the account during the period of disputed transactions, 
including payments from the Department of Work and Pensions, refunds, and cash 
deposited in branch. These payments were used in part to fund the gambling  yet 
Mr P didnt notice or question where his funds were going until August. This also 
undermines his statements that he wasnt checking his account further, as he said 
that the reason for this was that he wasnt receiving any income  and whilst this 
wasnt necessarily income from a job, he was receiving incoming funds. 
Mr Ps account shows other history of gambling, so the activity was not unusual for 
his account.
No further attempts were made to use Mr Ps account after he cancelled the card  
which implies whoever was using it knew it had been cancelled. I dont see how an 
unknown third party could have known this. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to refuse to refund 
the disputed transactions because I think its more likely than not that Mr P made or 
otherwise authorised the transactions that he disputes.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman