DRN-2262192
The complaint
Miss W complained that Vanquis Bank Limited was charging her much more than she 
expected to pay, for her monthly minimum payment. 
What happened
Miss W said that her March 2020 card statement showed a balance of £80.58, but the 
statement was asking for a payment of £48.91. That was made up of a minimum payment 
she said was too large. Miss W said that was more than half of the balance.
Miss W told us she spoke to Vanquis, and it said that the minimum payment would either
be £10.00 or 3% of the balance. So she paid £20.00. But she said Vanquis was contacting 
her every couple of days asking for the additional £28.91. 
Miss W then got another statement, which she said asked for a minimum payment which 
was also much more than she was expecting to pay, and a missed payment from the 
previous month, when Miss W said she hadnt missed that payment. Miss W thought this 
was all happening because of mistakes that Vanquis had made.
Miss W said Vanquis was being unfair by saying she had missed or made a late payment. 
And she was worried this could affect her credit file if Vanquis decided to register this as a 
late or missed payment. She told us that her payments had been in line with the information 
Vanquis gave her. She then showed us that Vanquis had recorded two missed payments on 
her credit file, for April and May.
I think its worth setting out here what Miss W paid, and when.
18 Feb statement - requested min payment £112.33 by 16 March
payments shown on following statement - 
£113 on 4 March
£1,920 on 17 March 
18 March statement - requested min payment £48.91 by 13 April
payment shown on following statement - 
£20 on 13 April (late payment charge applied)
19 April statement - requested missed payment from previous statement, £28.91 due 
immediately, plus min payment £19.55 by 14 May.
payment shown on following statement -
£10 on 8 May (late payment charge applied)
18 May statement - requested missed payment from previous statement, £38.46 due 
immediately, plus min payment £25.95 by 12 June.
payment shown on following statement -
£65 on 8 June (two late payment charges refunded)
Vanquis said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that Miss Ws minimum payment was 
calculated in one of two ways  it would either be £10, or 3% of her balance, plus interest, 
charges and fees. 
Vanquis said it had applied the large payment that Miss W made on 17 March to her 
previous, February statement. So when it issued her March statement, she owed just under 
£50 in interest (accrued on the much higher balance from the month before) and 3% of her 
remaining balance, which was £80.58. It said her minimum payment of £48.91 was correct. 
Vanquis had recorded late payments on Miss Ws credit file because she hadnt paid in line 
with its requests. It wouldnt change that, but it had refunded two late payment charges of 
£12 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought Vanquis had 
charged Miss W in line with the terms of her account, and it had notified her of the payments 
she needed to make. She didnt think Vanquis had done anything wrong, and she didnt think 
it needed to remove the late payment markers now. 
Miss W didnt agree. Her reply shows that she considers the large payment she made in late 
March shouldve been part of the payment due by 13 April, not the one due by 16 March. So 
she said, looking at it like that, shed never missed a payment. 
Our investigator still didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Miss W didnt agree, she 
said she had made payments, although for less than requested. She wanted her complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Miss Ws balance for her January and February statements was a little under £2,000. She 
was paying around £50 in interest per month. Interest is actually added on to the account the 
month after its incurred. So where, as here, she had a larger balance in February, and made 
a very large payment to clear most of that balance, she would still have to pay about £50 in 
interest the next month. Thats interest on the balance she had the month before, which she 
has now mostly paid off. 
I know its unfortunate that Miss Ws payment (which she wasnt relying on at all to cover the 
minimum payment due by 16 March) was credited towards that payment period, not the next 
payment period. I note that this payment was made directly on to Miss Ws card by a third 
party, so she may not have been entirely in control of when this payment was made. Ill 
come back to this payment in a moment.
The way in which Miss Ws payments for February were applied did leave a very large 
minimum payment showing on Miss Ws statement issued 18 March. And Miss W didnt 
expect that. She said she asked Vanquis what the minimum payment should be, and it said 
either £10, or 3% of the previous statement balance, whichever is the larger. Miss W had 
been asked to pay over half of the previous statement balance.But this isnt quite what Vanquis has said about how it works out a minimum payment. It 
says that it will charge the larger of either £10, or 3% of the balance, plus interest, fees and 
charges. And its the interest, on top of the 3%, thats the reason Miss W was asked for so 
much more money on her March statement than she was expecting. 
So I asked Miss W to show us what Vanquis had said to her at the time. Shes now sent us 
the text she received then, and I can see that this also says she needs to pay the larger of 
either £10, or 3% of the balance, plus interest, fees and charges. So I think that Vanquis had 
explained to Miss W how much it was expecting her to pay. And her statement for March 
2020 showed she owed just under £45 in purchase interest and a little less than £5 in cash 
interest. I think that explains the minimum payment she was asked to pay in March 2020.
Miss W said, when she made this complaint, that Vanquis was only supposed to charge 3%, 
and it charged a lot more than this. But I think that Vanquis had explained to Miss W how it 
would work out her minimum payment. and Miss W hadnt paid that. So I dont think Vanquis 
made a mistake about how much Miss W ought to pay in March, and I dont think her 
complaint on this point ought to be upheld. 
Miss W then didnt pay the full minimum payment in April, or make up for the missed 
payment in the previous month. She was asked to make an immediate payment of £28.91, 
which shed missed from the previous month, and a minimum payment of £19.55. She paid 
£10. 
But Vanquis had already said it would ask for 3% of the balance, plus interest, fees and 
charges. I can see on that statement £2.68 of purchase interest, £0.07 of cash interest, and 
£12 in charges. So, again, I think that explains why this minimum payment was higher than 
Miss W was expecting. So I dont think Vanquis made a mistake about how much Miss W 
ought to pay in April either, and I dont think her complaint on this point ought to be upheld.
Miss W also said that shed made a large payment on 17 March, the day after her payment 
for her February statement was due. More recently, shes suggested that this payment 
shouldve been counted as her March payment. But I think it was clear from the statements 
she was sent that this isnt how Vanquis had applied this payment. And I dont think its 
unreasonable for Vanquis in this case to have applied this payment to Miss Ws February 
statement, not her March statement. I note in particular that she doesnt seem to have 
complained to Vanquis about this at the time. I dont think Miss Ws complaint on this point 
ought to be upheld.
When Miss W doesnt pay all of the minimum payment requested on her statement, Vanquis 
may put a negative mark on her credit file for that month. So I dont think it has to remove 
any late payment markers which appear on her credit file for her March and April payments. 
I know Miss W will be disappointed, but I dont think Vanquis has done anything wrong here. 
And I dont think her complaint should be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman