DRN-4088259
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the cashback theyve received from Santander UK Plc.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a 123 account with Santander that pays cashback on certain direct 
debits, including ones paid to energy suppliers. Mr K has told us that when he signed up for 
the cashback Santander was paying 2% cashback for energy providers. But last year, 
Santander contacted Mr and Mrs K to advise it was increasing the cashback for direct debits 
paid to energy suppliers from 2% to 4%. 
Mr and Mrs K looked at their statements and found theyve only ever been paid 1% 
cashback when direct debits are paid to their energy supplier (U). Mr and Mrs K complained 
to Santander and asked it to pay them the cashback theyd missed out on. 
Santander sent a final response to Mr and Mrs K but didnt agree it had made a mistake. 
Santander said whilst it does pay 4% cashback for gas and electricity, U doesnt classify 
itself as an energy provider. Santander explained that Us classification falls under 
telecommunications and that it provides multiple services to customers. As a result, 
Santander confirmed it had correctly paid 1% cashback for Mr and Mrs Ks direct debits to U. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. They pointed to the terms 
and conditions and Santanders website which contained information about how the 
cashback amount was decided. The terms and conditions advise that direct debits to 
businesses that are eligible for cashback are contained on its Current Account Eligible 
Originators Classification List. Santanders terms says it built the system using BACS 
Originator Identifier Number (OIN) which contains classifications for the businesses being 
paid. The investigator thought Santander had paid the correct amount of cashback based on 
its terms and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr and Mrs K asked to appeal so their 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr and Mrs K said u is solely their energy supplier and that 
its irrelevant how Santander categorises them. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ks point and 
frustration. And I accept that U is their energy supplier. But, as Ive set out above, eligibility 
for cashback is based on the OIN categorisation that is listed with BACS -  a payment 
system thats used to collect direct debits across the banking industry. And Us OIN 
categorisation with BACS is a telecommunications provider. I appreciate that doesnt match 
the services U provides to Mr and Mrs K. But I think Santander makes a reasonable point 
when it says the cashback classifications have been taken from BACS, the organisation that 
helps make direct debit payments. 
Ive checked Us classification on Santanders website and can see it comes back as eligible 
for 1% cashback on direct debit payments made. So whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs K 
are upset, Im satisfied Santander has correctly applied its terms and conditions here and 
paid the correct level of cashback. 
In their complaint submission to us, Mr and Mrs K have told us theyre concerned theyve 
missed out on cashback of as much as £22 a month due to the way U has been classified 
and the 1% return. But Santanders cashback terms give the following information in section 
5.2: A cap of £5 applies on the amount of cashback that is paid on each of the eligible 
percentage cashback categories. This means that you can earn up to £15 in cashback in 
any one month. This means that Santander will pay a maximum of £5 cashback on direct 
debits it collects. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ks bank statements for October to December 2022 and can see 
theyve received cashback of £5 a month each month in respect of direct debit payments 
made to U. So whilst Mr and Mrs Ks direct debit payments to U arent eligible for 4% 
cashback, in the statements Ive seen they were receiving the maximum amount of £5 as set 
out in the terms. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with their complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman