DRN-3654622
The complaint
Miss Ls representative complains on her behalf that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) have not 
offered to settle her claim on her home insurance policy fairly.
References to Miss L, or her representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Zurich involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Zurich.
What happened
In December 2018 a leak of water, from the flat above Miss Ls flat. caused damage to her 
bedroom, so she made a claim on her home insurance buildings policy. Zurich accepted the 
claim. 
Zurich attended Miss Ls property at the end of February 2019 to assess the damage and 
completed a quote for repairs. Miss L also obtained a quote for the repairs to be completed 
by her own builder, but Zurich said this was excessive for the works required. 
In March 2019 Zurich offered a cash settlement offer of £791.56. This was rejected. Zurich 
also said Miss L may use its builder repair network of approved contractors to carry out the 
work needed.
In July 2019 Miss L had the damaged repaired by her own building contractor at the cost of 
£2,380. This was completed without approval of cost by Zurich.
As there was no contact from Miss L to Zurich after May 2019, Zurich closed her claim at the 
end of February 2020. 
In April 2021, Miss L appointed a representative who contacted Zurich to seek settlement for 
her builders invoice from July 2019. 
The invoice for the work completed in July 2019 was submitted to Zurich along with an 
invoice for £600 for a surveyor. 
Zurich declined to pay the invoice for the repairs and made Miss L the same cash settlement 
offer as it had in 2019. Zurich also declined to settle the surveyor costs. It said the claim did 
not require the involvement of a loss assessor/surveyor and the surveyor was a family 
member of Miss L.
Miss Ls representative said the cash offer for the repairs was not realistic. Zurich supplied a 
schedule of works and this mainly matched Miss Ls representatives schedule with the 
exception of replastering the walls. Miss Ls representative requested a breakdown of costs 
from Zurich, but it said it was unable to supply as it was a priced scope which it did not share 
with the policy holder. 
As Miss Ls representative was not happy with Zurich, they brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said that Zurich 
had acted fairly and reasonably. They said Zurich was willing to complete the repair work 
and gave a detailed schedule of work and offered a cash settlement amount. They also said 
Zurich had fairly declined to pay the surveyors costs, because it never asked Miss L to 
instruct one and if one was needed it would have provided one or instructed her to get one.
As Miss Ls representative is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said
Settlement offer
I looked first at the policy terms and conditions and it says;
Our payment to you
In the event of loss or damage to the Buildings caused by an insured risk We will pay the full 
cost of work for repairing or reinstating as new the damaged part of the Buildings provided 
the work is completed without delay.
I have seen that Zurich did give the option for Miss L to use its builder repair network of 
approved contractors to carry out the work needed as an alternative to the cash offer that 
was rejected. So I am satisfied it offered to put Miss L back into the position she was in 
before the escape of water into her bedroom and she would not be losing out.
Zurich gave Miss L the chance to be reimbursed by repair, but she didnt take it. It would be 
unfair for Zurich to be forced to pay the cost to the consumer (which is usually more than the 
cost to the insurer) when its already done whats required under the terms of the policy.
As Miss L wanted a cash settlement, Zurich could not enforce a repair on her and must pay 
cash to settle the claim. But its only required to pay her the cost to itself  which might be 
less than the cost to her. Insurers often have arrangements with companies that mean they 
can get things repaired or replaced for less than the market rate the consumer might pay. So 
theres a cost to the insurer, which could be different to the cost to the consumer. If thats not 
enough for the consumer to get repairs or a replacement, thats fair. 
But we must be satisfied that the insurers offer to repair or replace was fair to begin with, 
bearing in mind the guidance above. If not, then it hasnt actually offered to indemnify the 
consumer and so its offer is unfair.
In this case the cash offer to Miss L is £791.56. I have seen the breakdown of this amount, 
but it cannot be shared as it is commercially sensitive. I looked at the formula used, 
alongside two different explanations given to me by Zurich and I am not convinced the 
amount offered is a true reflection of the amount needed to undertake the work in 2019. 
I do accept that since 2019 there have been increases in both material and labour costs. 
And I have taken into account that the repairs took place three years ago - and the cash 
offer was relevant then and not now in 2022. 
I looked at the invoice submitted by Miss L in 2019. The net amount was £2,380. This 
invoice included the replastering of walls. And this work was not in the scope of the work 
agreed by Zurich. Unfortunately there was no breakdown of the individual costs in either the invoice or estimate and Miss Ls representative said the builder has now retired and is 
unable to be contacted. 
Miss Ls representative said The quotation was submitted twice with the second indicating 
that the intention was to accept the estimate. There was no response to either submission 
and nor to the bill when sent on completion of the work. 
I do not think that Zurich should have to settle this invoice in full as it never agreed to do so. 
Zurich said its last contact with Miss Ls representative was May 2019. However I saw in 
Zurichs claim file for Miss L, that it noted in June 2019 have offered the customer a cash 
settlement of £1,600. I found no mention from Miss L or her representative that they had 
this amount offered.
Therefore I intend to uphold this part of Miss Ls complaint and think the fairest way forward 
is that Zurich to pay the cash settlement amount from July 2019 of £1,600. I think this is fair 
as it sits between its current cash offer of £791.56 and Miss Ls builders invoice of £2,380, 
which included more work than Zurich had in scope. 
Surveyor costs
In section four of the terms and conditions of the policy it says;
Architects and surveyors fees, debris removal and government/local
authority requirements
If they are necessary in the reinstatement of the Buildings following loss or damage by
an insured risk We will pay:
a) architects, surveyors, consultants, and legal fees, but not fees for preparing
any claim;
Zurich said it was satisfied the claim did not require a loss assessor or surveyor as the claim 
was only for water damage to the bedroom and the reinstatement costs were relatively low.
Miss Ls representative is also acting as her surveyor and has submitted an invoice for £600 
for his services as a surveyor. The agreement is a private agreement between Miss L and 
the surveyor.
If Miss Ls representative felt it was necessary for a surveyor to be involved to manage her 
claim, then this should have been authorised with Zurich prior to any work taking place.
In this case I do not think it was necessary for Miss L to engage with a private surveyor and 
as it was not authorised with Zurich beforehand, it would be unfair for me to require Zurich to 
pay it. 
I do not intend to uphold this part of Miss Ls complaint.
After Miss Ls representative brought her claim to Zurich in 2021, it agreed the service 
offered had been slow and it offered £150 in compensation for this. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. This has not been paid as details of where to send the amount were never 
submitted by Miss Ls representative.
Therefore, I intend to partially uphold Miss Ls complaint and intend to require Zurich to pay 
a cash settlement for the work completed of £1,600 to put right the damage caused by the 
escape of water into her property in 2019. And to pay the £150 compensation that was 
offered in July 2021. Responses to my provisional decision
Miss Ls representative responded to say neither himself nor Miss L had any further 
comment.
Zurich responded to say it did not have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss Ls representative or Zurich have made any further comment, I maintain my 
provisional decision and I partially uphold Miss Ls complaint.
I require Zurich to pay a cash settlement for the work completed of £1,600 to put right the 
damage caused by the escape of water into her property in 2019. And to pay the £150 
compensation that was offered in July 2021.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I partially uphold this complaint.
I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Miss L £1,600 as a cash settlement for the work 
completed in 2019 plus £150 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman