DRN-4312126
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit started legal 
action to repossess their property before all options for the repayment of their interest-only 
mortgage had been properly considered. They also complain that legal action continued 
whilst our Service considered a previous complaint and after a final decision was issued.
Mr B and Mrs B are also unhappy about legal fees that Engage added to their mortgage 
account.
What happened
In 2005, Mr B and Mrs B took out an interest-only mortgage with a lender for a term of 13 
years, which Engage went on to administer. In 2007, Mr B and Mrs B added a further loan to 
the mortgage and in October 2018 the outstanding balance was around £318,000.
From around 2017, Mr B and Mrs B asked Engage to consider at least two proposals to 
repay the mortgage balance. One of their proposals was to build and sell a property within 
the title of their existing property. Another was to raise funds by selling a plot of land with 
planning permission to build another property and secure funding for the remainder of the 
balance. 
Mr B and Mrs B complained to Engage about how it had considered their proposals. Engage 
didnt uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs main concern, but it agreed that its communication had been 
unsatisfactory, and it offered compensation of £500.
In April 2019, Mr B and Mrs B referred their complaint to this Service. Shortly afterwards, 
Engage started legal action to repossess the property.
Our service asked Engage to put the legal action on hold, but it didnt agree to do this. A 
hearing was held in September 2019, but the matter was adjourned. The investigator 
reviewed the complaint and felt it should be upheld in part. In summary, he said:
The offer of £500 was appropriate.
Engages actions werent unfair otherwise.
He didnt think Engage had given full consideration to whether the sale and funding 
for the second proposal could be done simultaneously.
If Mr B and Mrs B decided to sell the property, they should be given a reasonable 
amount of time to do so.
Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman who issued a final decision on the complaint in August 2020. 
In summary, the ombudsman felt Engage had dealt with the proposals fairly. However, he 
thought there had been several instances of delay and some lack of clarity in the grounds 
Engage had given for its decision, but he felt the compensation offered of £500 was fair. 
The ombudsman also said that if Mr B and Mrs B could provide evidence that a 
simultaneous sale and funding could be achieved, he would expect Engage to consider the 
viability of that. 
I understand that Mr B and Mrs B were able to raise funds and the mortgage was fully 
redeemed in June 2021.
Mr B and Mrs B complained again to Engage in 2021. Amongst other things, they 
complained about how Engage had handled their proposal to split the title of the property 
and also that it had started legal action in 2019. They also complained about legal fees that 
had been added to their mortgage account. 
In June 2021, Engage issued another final response letter. In summary, it said that it had 
already addressed Mr B and Mrs Bs concerns about its consideration of their proposal and 
about it starting legal action when it did in its previous final response letters. Further, this 
Service had considered their concerns and issued a final decision  so it wouldnt review this 
further.
However, it did address Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about legal fees that it had added to the 
mortgage account. It said the legal fees were an accurate reflection of the amount it was 
charged by its solicitors for the legal action taken, but it did accept it had wrongly charged 
interest on the fees before it had requested payment and it said it would refund this. 
Unhappy with the response they received from Engage, Mr B and Mrs B referred a complaint 
to our service in November 2021. In summary, they said Engage hadnt properly considered 
their proposal and it had started legal proceedings to repossess their property in breach of 
the law and mortgage regulations and guidance - which say repossession should be a last 
resort. 
They also complained that legal action had continued whilst our Service was considering 
their previous complaint and after a final decision was issued, and also about legal fees 
Engage had added to their mortgage account.
The investigator didnt think it was appropriate for this Service to consider Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint in its entirety  because she felt an ombudsman had already considered and 
addressed some of their concerns in a final decision issued in August 2020. She also didnt 
think the complaint points that had not previously been considered by our Service should be 
upheld. In summary, she said:
She couldnt see that legal action had continued after our Service had issued a final 
decision in August 2020.
She felt Engage had charged legal fees in line with the mortgage terms and 
conditions, although it had applied interest to the fees too early. However, she could 
see Engage had already removed the interest charged on these fees and she didnt 
think it needed to do anything furtherMr B and Mrs B disagreed with the investigator. They reiterated their view that Engage 
hadnt complied with the law and mortgage regulations and guidance and said that it had 
previously accepted that it hadnt properly considered one of their proposals.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said that I had thought carefully about what Mr B and Mrs B had 
told us, and whilst some of their current complaint points had been framed slightly differently 
than in their previous complaint, I was satisfied that this Service had already considered their 
core concerns.
I explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service operates under rules set out in the 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. 
The rules say I can dismiss a complaint without consideration of its merits [DISP 3.3.4A] 
where:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Examples given in the rules of what would seriously impair the operation of our organisation 
[DISP 3.3.4B], include:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to 
the complainant).
I said that Mr B and Mrs B had previously complained to our service about how Engage had 
handled their proposals to repay the mortgage balance and a final decision on this complaint 
was issued in August 2020.
I explained that my ombudsman colleague had considered whether it was reasonable for 
Engage to reject Mr B and Mrs Bs proposals for repaying balance and hed concluded that 
Engage had dealt fairly with the proposals put to it. In doing so, he had considered the 
actions taken by Engage, including its decision to start legal proceedings when it did and he 
made the following finding on this point:
Although Engage issued legal proceedings - and I can understand it doing in the absence of 
a reasonable proposal to pay off the balance - these are on hold pending this decision.
I also explained that my ombudsman colleague had been notified of Mr B and Mrs Bs more 
recent complaint, and he had confirmed that he did consider whether Engage had been 
justified in starting legal proceedings when it did and he was satisfied that this was 
addressed in his final decision.
I said that Id taken into account Mr B and Mrs Bs view that the ombudsman didnt comment 
specifically on whether Engage had complied with relevant regulations and the law and I 
explained that the ombudsman would have taken account of relevant law, guidance and 
good practice in reaching his conclusion, as he was required to do - but he wasnt required 
to set that out in detail. It followed that I didnt think it would be appropriate for me to make 
findings about that issue now. To do so would be reconsidering something that we have 
already looked at and made a finding on.I was also satisfied that no new material evidence that would likely affect the outcome had 
come to light since my ombudsman colleague issued his final decision in August 2020.
Because of this, I said I didnt intend to consider how Engage handled the proposals          
Mr B and Mrs B put to it or its decision to take legal action when it did any further.
However, I could see that Mr B and Mrs B had also complained about what had happened 
since our involvement in their previous complaint and I went on to consider the concerns 
raised about that and I set out my findings.  
Legal action after our final decision
I noted that Mr B and Mrs B had complained about legal action continuing after the final 
decision was issued by our Service in August 2020. 
I explained that Id carefully reviewed the information available to me, including the invoices 
provided by the solicitors acting on behalf of Engage, and I couldnt see that any further legal 
action concerning the repossession of the property had taken place following the final 
decision dated August 2020. I also said that I had understood Mr B and Mrs B had 
redeemed the mortgage in June 2021. So, I wasnt able to conclude that Engage has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.  
Legal costs
I noted that Mr B and Mrs B were unhappy that Engage added legal costs to the mortgage 
account for the legal action that started in 2019.
I explained that Engage had told us that the legal fees that were added to the account were 
the costs charged by its solicitors when dealing with the legal proceedings that started in 
2019. I explained that Id reviewed the invoices provided by the solicitors and I was satisfied 
that the amount Mr B and Mrs B had been charged was an accurate reflection of the legal 
costs Engage had incurred.
I also said Id reviewed the mortgage conditions and it is made clear in condition 13.1 under 
the heading Costs and Fees that Mr B and Mrs B would be responsible for all costs and 
expenses incurred, amongst other things, for:
(a) in recovering the mortgage debt; and 
(b) in any legal proceedings concerning the mortgage.
I said that because the mortgage conditions allow the lender to charge Mr B and Mrs B for 
the costs and expenses incurred by its solicitors dealing with litigation on the account, I was 
unable to conclude that Engage had acted outside the terms and conditions of the mortgage, 
or that it was unfair or unreasonable in seeking payment of those costs from                       
Mr B and Mrs B.
I also noted that Engage had reversed the interest incorrectly applied on the fees and 
charges that had been added to the mortgage account so I wouldnt be asking Engage to do 
anything further.
Considering everything, I wasnt satisfied Engage had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
Engage didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr B and Mrs B responded to my provisional decision in detail, and Ive summarised their 
key points below:
 
They feel the scope of the complaint is being unreasonably restricted by previous 
matters.
Engage has provided this Service with incorrect information. 
Legal proceedings commenced in June 2019, not March 2019 and were adjourned to 
allow Engage the opportunity to examine Mr B and Mrs Bs submissions, and for it to 
review its stance. Further, costs werent applied for or considered.  
They were told in October 2019 that legal proceedings had been withdrawn, but legal 
costs were incurred after this time. 
The legal proceedings werent justified, so any costs incurred by Engage cant have 
been reasonably incurred, which is a requirement of the terms and conditions of the 
loan. 
Some of the charges relate to the transfer of the mortgage to another lender, which 
they shouldnt have been charged for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr B and Mrs Bs comments about the outcome reached by my 
ombudsman colleague, and also their view that this complaint is being unreasonably 
restricted by previous matters. However, for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional 
decision, I do not agree that it would be appropriate for me to revisit the subject matter that 
has previously been considered by another ombudsman and a finding reached. The rules 
the Financial Ombudsman Service operates under provide for me to take that view.  
Ive also taken into consideration Mr B and Mrs Bs view that Engage provided this Service 
with incorrect information which impacted the decision made by my ombudsman colleague. 
However, I remain satisfied that no new material evidence that would likely affect the 
outcome has come to light since my ombudsman colleague issued his final decision in 
August 2020.
Ive also thought about what Mr B and Mrs B have said about the legal costs added to their 
account, including that they were told in October 2019 that legal proceedings had been 
withdrawn. However, I can see from the evidence provided that the hearing scheduled to 
take place in September 2019 was adjourned for a period of time rather than withdrawn. I 
also understand that further hearings were scheduled to take place and were later 
adjourned. 
Ive carefully reviewed the invoices provided by Engages solicitors, and I remain satisfied 
that the amount Mr B and Mrs B have been charged is an accurate reflection of the costs 
Engage was charged by its solicitors when dealing with the legal proceedings that started in 
2019. I also havent seen any evidence to show that this included any costs relating to the 
transfer of Mr B and Mrs Bs mortgage to another lender.Mr B and Mrs B have reiterated their view that the legal action wasnt justified, so any costs 
incurred as a result of it cannot be considered to have been reasonably incurred in line with 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage. However, my ombudsman colleague has already 
considered whether Engage was justified in taking legal action when it did, and he reached a 
finding on this.
I was very sorry to learn of the difficulties Mr B and Mrs B have been facing and the impact 
this matter has had on Mr Bs health. I do not underestimate Mr B and Mrs Bs strength of 
feeling about this matter. However, after reviewing everything, I see no reason to depart 
from my findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dismiss part of this complaint as set out above, because it has 
been previously considered by this Service.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs concerns about legal action 
continuing after a final decision was issued by this Service and Mr B and Mrs Bs concerns 
about the legal costs that were added to their mortgage account in relation to the legal 
proceedings that started in 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman