DRN-4094493
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a payment she made for the purchase of a car was highlighted for 
extra security checks. Mrs H is unhappy with the way she was spoken to by an agent of 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) and that the payment was reversed. 
What happened
Mrs H made a payment of £2,200 for a car purchase. This was flagged by HSBCs fraud 
detection system and Mrs H received a phone call from HSBC. Mrs H didnt believe the call 
to be genuine and so refused to provide her details. Mrs H was advised to contact HSBC 
using a known number.
Mrs H contacted HSBC and spoke to an agent who asked her if shed authorised the 
payment in question to which Mrs H confirmed she did. The agent asked a number of other 
questions about the car and asked Mrs H to verify the number plate. Mrs H couldnt recall 
this information and the agent asked her to call her son to confirm this information. Despite 
Mrs H being unhappy with this she called her son to verify the number plate and model of 
the car.
The agent asked further questions about the purchase including why Mrs H didnt transfer 
the money to her daughter directly and Mrs H went on to explain details about personal 
relationships. Mrs H says she felt like she was being interrogated and that the questions 
were irrelevant and the agent wasnt listening to her. Because Mrs H was unhappy with the 
questions the agent said she could go into a branch. By this point Mrs H was frustrated and 
angry and the agent concluded that the payment would be reversed to which Mrs H agreed 
and put the phone down.
Mrs H complained to HSBC about this. HSBC agreed that the agent shouldve authorised 
the payment and provided feedback to the agents manager. To settle the complaint HSBC 
offered Mrs H £250 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs H felt further compensation was due and brought her complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs concerns and agreed that some of HSBCs 
questions were unnecessary but thought that the £250 was a fair way to settle the complaint 
especially considering this was more than the £200 compensation Mrs H had originally 
asked for. 
Mrs H was dis-satisfied with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how security checks are carried out on 
customer transactions. Ultimately, how a bank runs its business and the processes it has in 
place to alleviate risk is a commercial decision and isnt something for me to get involved 
with. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or 
disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mrs H has experienced and see if HSBC has done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs H unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs H 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
And while I wouldnt tell a business how or what security systems to put in place to check for 
fraudulent activity  I would expect it to put safeguards in place to protect it and its 
customers from such activity.
I accept Mrs H was inconvenienced by the extra security measures HSBC wished to take but 
ultimately this extra security is for Mrs Hs protection and I think having Mrs H answer a few 
questions about a higher value purchase is a perfectly fair and reasonable way to safeguard 
both HSBC and Mrs Hs interests. So I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong when it 
flagged the purchase for an extra security check. 
HSBC has already agreed that its agent did something wrong in carrying out the process 
and shouldnt have reversed the payment.  So I dont think I need to make a finding here. 
What I need to consider is whether the £250 compensation paid to Mrs H for the distress 
and inconvenience experienced is enough.  
I think Mrs H would probably accept that security checks at times are a necessary part of 
banking securely. But that on this occasion the checks went too far which caused her some 
inconvenience.  
I also appreciate how frustrated Mrs H is about all of this.  But things dont always go 
smoothly and our role isnt to penalise or punish a business when a business makes a 
mistake  rather it is to try and put the consumer in back in the position they wouldve been 
in if the mistakes had not have happened.
Mrs H was able to still purchase the car  albeit not in the way she expected or how shed 
have liked. So besides the inconvenience caused to Mrs H in having the payment reversed - 
as far as Im aware  no other direct financial losses have resulted from this. So on this 
basis, I think the £250 in total already paid to Mrs H is fair compensation in the 
circumstances. 
So it follows that Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already done is a fair 
way to settle Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman