DRN-2262969
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1996. Miss S says Yorkshire Building Society trading as Norwich & 
Peterborough Building Society (YBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss S took out a PPI policy alongside her mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She complains she felt 
she had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage. She wasnt told it was optional and she says 
she wasnt given much detail about the terms and conditions or the cost and benefits. She 
was in skilled, secure employment and concludes she did not need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Miss S disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. She added the following 
points:
She had a pre-existing medical condition which she could not claim for;
She was not eligible for the policy;
She had only been working for 7 months in a new job, so she could not claim 
unemployment cover until she had been working for 12 months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I say this because:
Neither YBS nor Miss S have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
surprising given that the sale took place around 25 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
So based on what I know about how YBS sold policies like this at the time  particularly 
as she had to complete a separate PPI application form - I think its likely the optional 
nature was probably made clear. And nothing Miss S has told me makes me think YBS 
didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its more likely YBS made it clear 
to Miss S she had a choice about the PPI, and she agreed to buy it.
I looked at the policy terms to see if Miss S was eligible to buy the policy. I think she was 
eligible because she was aged between 18 and 60 and in full time employment at the 
start date. These were the main eligibility criteria in this policy. 
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss S got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could 
have been. But having decided she probably chose to take out the PPI - it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time and based on the terms and 
conditions of the policy, it doesnt look like she would have been able to claim 
unemployment cover for a period of five months. However, I think it was unlikely she 
would have been made redundant in the first 12 months of work as she said this was a 
skilled and secure job. So I think the policy would have been useful for her the longer 
she remained in her job.
Miss S also told us she had a pre-existing medical condition, although she said this 
only came to light when she had a medical for the mortgage. She said the medical 
condition had never affected her in 26 years and she hadnt received any medication for 
it. I looked at the PPI policy  it said she wouldnt be able to claim for a pre-existing 
medical condition if she had been aware of it at the start date or if she had received 
treatment from a doctor for the 12 month period before the start date. In those 
circumstances, I think she may have been affected by the policy exclusion if she found 
out about her condition before the policy start date. However, as she also told us the 
condition hadnt affected her and as she hadnt had any medical treatment for it, I dont 
think its likely Miss S would have needed to claim for it on the policy. So I think the 
policy could still have been of benefit to her. And it also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off from 
taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S. 
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to YBS because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about that. Because YBS didnt tell Miss S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss S has said - including what she has said about her length 
of employment, her eligibility to buy the policy and her pre-existing medical condition. But 
these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss S. 
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman