DRN-2454778
The complaint
Mr C complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was reversing out of a hotels parking bay when he hit another car. He said it was a 
glancing blow and he told AA that the car park had CCTV cameras. AA said it would try to 
get the footage. Mr C also had a dash cam, but it was facing the wrong way. The other driver 
made a claim for personal injuries, but Mr C thought this was exaggerated. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AA had 
reasonably decided to hold Mr C liable for the accident as hed admitted that he hit the other 
car. And she thought AA had reasonably settled the personal injury claim based on medical 
evidence. 
But she thought AA hadnt managed Mr Cs expectations as it hadnt told him that the CCTV 
footage wouldnt make any difference. It hadnt then obtained the footage, so disappointing 
Mr C. And it took three weeks to respond to Mr Cs questions. She thought AA should pay 
Mr C £50 compensation for this.  
AA replied that the lack of CCTV footage hadnt disadvantaged Mr C in the claim. It said he 
was going to get the CCTV footage, but he hadnt. AA asked for an ombudsmans review, so 
the complaints come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated by AAs handling of the claim. He thinks the 
accident was very minor and the other drivers claim for personal injury was exaggerated. He 
also thought the CCTV evidence could have shown that the impact was very minor and so 
helped defend the claim. 
The investigator has already explained that our role in complaints of this nature is simply to 
investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr C 
the same as someone else in his position. 
I think AA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr C to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr C has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision about it. 
AA has provided the calls Mr C made when he first reported the claim, and later when he 
found out that the other drivers claim had been settled. I think AA told Mr C early on that if 
the other driver made a claim, then hed be held liable. 
Mr C told the agent hed asked the hotel if it could get the CCTV footage for him. The agent 
said he would give the hotel a call to obtain the footage. Mr C said hed been back to the 
hotel. And the agent said he would follow this up. So I think Mr C was left thinking that AA 
was going to apply for the CCTV footage. 
But AA didnt obtain the footage. And Mr C later said the hotel wouldnt release the footage 
to him. The availability of CCTV footage wasnt noted in the initial call notes by AA. The 
other driver later made a claim for personal injury and AA contacted Mr C again. AA then 
told Mr C that it was likely that the first agent hadnt followed the CCTV footage up as liability 
was admitted. 
So I think AA had left Mr C thinking that it would obtain this evidence, but it failed to do so. 
When Mr C was later told this, and that it was now too late, he was understandably upset. 
I think AA had reasonably held Mr C liable from his description of the accident 
circumstances. It had received an expert medical report on the other drivers injuries, and I 
havent seen any evidence that the claim was fraudulent. 
I dont think the CCTV footage, if it had captured the incident, would add anything to defend 
Mr C, as a slight impact can lead to soft tissue injury. And Mr C had told AA that his own 
dashcam footage showed that his car had moved slightly due to the impact, confirming AAs 
decision. 
Mr C sent his dashcam footage to AA, but it closed his complaint without responding to his 
questions. Mr C asked for a response and it then took AA three weeks to provide this. I 
agree with the investigator that this is poor service and that it caused Mr C avoidable upset. 
I agree with AA that the lack of the CCTV footage hasnt caused Mr C disadvantage. From 
the circumstances and the expert medical report it would have to deal with the other drivers 
claim for personal injury. 
But I think AA could have told Mr C at the beginning that the CCTV footage wouldnt make 
any difference. Instead, I think its agent told him twice that he would obtain this. But the 
agent didnt even make a note that these was CCTV footage available. And later, I think AA 
caused Mr C additional frustration by its delay in responding to his questions.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that AA should pay Mr C £50 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its 
what Id require in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr C £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman