The complaint
Mr F and Miss K complain that they ordered foreign currency from Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
for collection from one of its branches, but this was not available when agreed and a refund 
was not processed for over a week.
What happened
Mr F and Miss K have a Euro account with Barclays. On 3 June 2019 Mr F ordered 1,705 
Euros for collection from a Barclays branch. Mr F and Miss Ks account was debited for this 
amount. The currency was to be available for collection the following day  4 June 2019.
When Mr F went to the branch the order was not available. Mr F and Miss K had to travel 
later the same day and did so without having received the currency ordered.
Mr F and Miss K requested that the amount be refunded so they could make a transfer to 
another account that they could access while away. But this was not done before they 
returned from their trip. There was a delay in the refund being made. And Mr F made several 
calls to Barclays to chase this as well as visits to branch. The refund was eventually credited 
to Mr F and Miss Ks account on 11 June 2019.
Mr F and Miss K complained to Barclays. Barclays acknowledged that there had been a 
mistake and that the order shouldve been available by the time Mr F visited the branch. And 
it acknowledged this, and having to chase the refund, wouldve been upsetting. So, it offered 
Mr F and Miss K £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with this response Mr F and Miss K asked our service to look into the complaint. 
They said that not having access to the currency had meant theyd needed to make 
alternative arrangements while on their trip to pay for things and ultimately had to cut their 
trip short.
An investigator considered the complaint. They agreed that Barclays had made errors  by 
not having the order available as agreed and the delay in making the refund. But he noted 
that the alternative arrangements Mr F and Miss K had needed to make didnt appear to 
have caused a loss  which they acknowledged. And he also noted Mr F and Miss K had not 
previously mentioned curtailing their trip. So overall, he felt that the offer of £150 made by 
Barclays was fair. 
Mr F and Miss K disagreed as they didnt feel the amount of compensation was fair. As a 
result the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
DRN-1911938What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that there have been errors here by Barclays. The foreign currency Mr F 
and Miss K ordered was not delivered to the branch for collection by the agreed time. And 
then there was a delay of several days in the relevant amount being refunded to their 
account. All of which Barclays acknowledges. So, what is left for me to decide is what the 
fair way to resolve the complaint.
I note when Mr F and Miss K complained they told Barclays that theyd been able to make 
other arrangements to have money available while on their trip and they confirmed to our 
investigator theyd not incurred any additional costs in doing so. Theyve mentioned returning 
from their trip earlier than planned as a result of this. But they also told our investigator that 
they didnt have return travel booked at the time of their trip  so would always have had to 
arrange this after departing. So again, it doesnt seem that theyve incurred any additional 
costs as a result of this.
I dont doubt that this was both frustrating and upsetting for Mr F and Miss K. Theyd ordered 
the money in advance of their trip with the aim of having it available. And to not receive this 
as agreed wouldve been disappointing. And then subsequently for there to be a delay of a 
few days in the amount being refunded, especially given the sum involved, would just have 
added to the frustration. But based on everything Ive seen and heard, while I appreciate    
Mr F and Miss K feel strongly about this, I think the offer of £150 made by Barclays to 
address the upset caused, is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be requiring it to do any more.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint which 
I think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr F 
and Miss K the £150 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss K to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman