DRN-2885958
The complaint
Mr W complains about his secured loan with Prestige Finance Limited. He complains, in 
summary, that:
- the loan and the payment protection insurance (PPI) policy he took at the same time 
were mis-sold because of the interest rate on the loan and the term of the PPI policy;
- the loan interest rate is unfair and excessive;
- hes trapped on a high interest rate and cant re-finance  hes a mortgage prisoner and 
Prestige has refused to help him.
What happened
In 2007, through a broker, Mr W took out a secured loan of just over £70,000. That sum 
included the cost of a PPI policy. The loan was on a variable interest rate. In 2015, the loan 
was sold to Prestige.
The loan has been in arrears at times over the years. Mr W has suffered from poor health 
and been unable to work, and he says his family has had to help him with the loan 
payments. He has made complaints about the interest rate on the loan and the lack of help 
and support he believes he has received from both the original lender and Prestige.
On 26 June 2018, Prestige sent Mr W a final response letter following receipt of a complaint 
from him. That letter addressed, in summary:
- the transfer of the loan to Prestige from the original lender;
- the sale of PPI, insofar as Prestige said it had forwarded Mr Ws complaint about that to 
the original lender; 
- Prestiges and the original lenders entitlement to change the interest rate on the loan;
- legal fees added to the loan by the original lender;
- whether Prestige was under any obligation to offer Mr W a new mortgage product with a 
lower interest rate. 
The letter also said Mr W could refer his complaint to this service, but he must do so within 
six months of the date on the letter. If he didnt do so, it said Prestige wouldnt give its 
permission for us to consider the complaint.  
In 2020, Mr W complained again. He was still unhappy about the loan interest rate and how 
he was being treated. 
Prestige sent Mr W a new final response letter, but it referred to its June 2018 letter and said 
it wouldnt re-investigate the parts of his complaint which it had already responded to. That 
included the interest rate and charges applied before 26 June 2018. It also said Mr Ws 
complaint about the advice he was given when he took out the loan was a matter for his 
broker rather than for it as the current lender. It also said it couldnt offer Mr W a new rate 
and he should take independent advice about his options. 
In August 2020, Mr W got in touch with us. I issued a decision setting out which parts of his 
complaint we can and cant consider. 
I found that we couldnt consider anything that had happened before 1 April 2014, because 
Mr Ws loan was an unregulated credit agreement, and the original lender didnt join this 
services compulsory jurisdiction until that date.
I also said we couldnt investigate anything Prestige had addressed in its June 2018 final 
response letter, because Mr W hadnt complained to us within the six-month timeframe set 
out in the letter. 
I concluded that we could only consider Mr Ws complaint about Prestiges treatment of him 
since 26 June 2018, including the interest rate and any charges that have been applied to 
the loan since then.
Our investigator looked into what had happened since 26 June 2018 and said Prestige had 
done nothing wrong. He found Mr Ws loan had always been subject to a variable interest 
rate, and that Prestige had only changed the rate to reflect changes in the Bank of England 
base rate. He said Prestige was entitled to change the rate in that way.
The investigator also concluded that Prestige didnt have to offer Mr W a new or different 
interest rate, and found he wasnt tied into the mortgage with an early repayment charge, for 
example, so he could look at options with other lenders.
Mr W still thought he had been treated very unfairly. He also provided a letter he had 
received from the original loan provider in 2019, offering him just under £9,000 in respect of 
his complaint about the sale of PPI with the loan. He said he hadnt received that money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W took out this loan on a capital and interest repayment basis some 14 years ago, over a 
term of around 25 years, and is understandably upset that the loan balance has increased 
rather than reduced in that time. Loan arrears, particularly in the early years after a loan is 
taken out, can have a significant impact on the balance  as Prestige has explained to Mr W. 
More interest is charged to a loan when payments are missed, and fees and charges for 
arrears may be added as well.
As I said in my earlier decision, I can only  under the rules this service must follow  
consider a small part of Mr Ws complaint: that is his complaint about Prestiges treatment of 
him and the interest rates he has been charged since 26 June 2018. Having considered that, 
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator. I find no basis on which to uphold this 
complaint.
Mr W says the interest rate on his loan is unfair and excessive. The interest rate was 10.65% 
in June 2018. That increased to 10.9% in October 2018, and then fell to 10.25% in May 
2020.Those changes reflect changes to the Bank of England base rate  which is the index 
Prestige uses to set the rate on Mr Ws loan. Mr W has mentioned LIBOR (the London Inter-
bank Offered Rate), but I find nothing to indicate that the rate on his loan is or has been 
linked to that.
Mr Ws loan has always been subject to a variable rate of interest. That was set out in the 
original credit agreement, and means that Prestige was entitled to vary the interest rate  
although it couldnt simply do so for no good reason. 
Since 26 June 2018, Prestige has only varied the rate  both up and down  when Bank of 
England base rate has changed, and it has passed on increases and cuts in full. 
I dont think Prestige took an unfair approach in varying Mr Ws rate in the way it did, or in 
deciding to track base rate. In tracking base rate, Mr Ws loan rate was linked to a rate that is 
set for wider economic purposes. Ive seen copies of letters Prestige sent Mr W giving him 
advance notice of the rate changes. Those letters also set out how much Mr W would need 
to have increased his monthly payment by in order to repay the loan within the original term.
Ive noted what Mr W has said about his situation and that he couldnt have afforded these 
higher payments. But that doesnt necessarily mean Prestige had to offer him a lower 
interest rate. This loan is a second charge loan and, while the interest rate Prestige has 
applied may seem high in comparison to some of those available for first charge loans from 
high-street lenders, it isnt out of line with rates on this type of loan.  
Prestige had a duty to treat Mr W fairly in the light of his financial situation and his health, 
and I think it did that. It agreed payment arrangements with him, as well as a six-month 
payment deferral in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. It refunded arrears fees applied in 
June and September 2018, and gave him details of sources of free money advice. Its 
records say it would also review Mr Ws situation once his payment deferral ended.  
Mr W says hes trapped and cant re-mortgage elsewhere for a better interest rate, and I can 
understand that he has limited options while hes struggling financially. As the investigator 
observed, Mr W isnt tied in to this loan by an early repayment charge or any similar type of 
charge for repayment, for example, so I dont think the way Prestige has operated the loan 
has stopped him from moving elsewhere  and I cant see that it has treated him any 
differently to its other customers. 
I recognise that Mr Ws circumstances have been very difficult, particularly in recent years, 
and that he feels strongly about this matter. But in all the circumstances, I dont think 
Prestige has treated him unfairly. I note Mr W has said he has already taken advice from 
debt advice services and I think thats the right approach for him to be taking. 
Finally, Ive noted what Mr W has said recently about the payment of compensation he was 
offered by the original lender of this loan. I think thats a matter for him to take up with the 
original lender directly to see whether it would still be prepared to pay him the money if he 
hasnt already received it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 Janet Millington
Ombudsman