DRN-3470632
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has misreported 
information about his secured loan to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead Ill set out the basic background, and then Ill focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision.
Mr F took out this secured loan in May 2006. He borrowed £25,499 over a 15-year term.
During 2007 and 2008 full payments werent made every month. Between June 2009 and 
April 2012 no payments were made. And then only three payments were made in the period 
from April 2012 until February 2014.
In September 2014 the arrears balance stood at around £10,700, and from then Mr F paid 
the equivalent of £250 a month, albeit some months had two payments and other months 
had no payments. This happened because in some months Mr F paid slightly early, so the 
payment in question was received in the month before it was due.
 
The pattern of some monthly payments being made early (which meant a payment wasnt 
made in every calendar month) continued over the years, with the only changes being that 
Mr F increased his payments to £361 from November 2018 and to £381 from June 2019.
In 2019 Mr F was looking at moving house, and when he checked his credit report he found 
that Halifax had reported missed payments since May 2019 which had affected his credit 
score. Mr F raised a complaint which Halifax didnt uphold and so Mr F referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt uphold it. Correspondence passed back 
and forth between our investigator and Mr F, but as an agreement couldnt be reached the 
case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason I wont be answering 
Mr Fs questions, nor will I be ordering Halifax to.
The issue here is that Mr F is still in arrears, despite the fact hes been maintaining his 
monthly payments (plus an additional amount) for a number of years. All the time that 
arrears balance remains outstanding Mr Fs account would be reported to the credit 
reference agencies as having missed/late payments. It doesnt matter that no payments 
have been missed in the last few years, the reporting is that there is still at least one 
payment that is overdue. 
Ill explain using an example:
If a consumer missed one payment in May 2015, and since then made all their 
monthly payments in full but never made up that missed payment, their credit 
reference file would show as 1 every single month since May 2015 to indicate that 
the account is one payment in arrears. That 1 doesnt mean the most recent 
payment has been missed, just that the account is one payment behind where it 
should be. 
If the consumer then missed another payment in July 2016 their credit report would 
show as 1 between May 2015 and June 2016, and then 2 from July 2016 onwards. 
That reflects the fact the account is now two payments overdue. 
If the consumer made up one of those payments in September 2016 then the 
reporting would go back to 1 every month from then. 
It would only go to 0 once all the arrears are cleared.
To put that into the context of Mr Fs account, he is more than six payments in arrears from 
the historical issues he had (6 is the maximum that is reported to the credit reference 
agencies). That means Halifax will report his account as 6 until such time as his arrears 
balance reduces to the equivalent of five monthly payments, at which time it will instead 
report 5 and so on. 
It doesnt matter, in terms of this reporting, that Mr F hasnt missed any payments for a 
number of years, the information that is reported is the arrears balance and how many 
monthly payments that is equivalent to. That is normal industry practice and exactly what I 
would expect to see. 
If Halifax at any time has reported the account as in a better state than that, then that has 
been in Mr Fs favour and doesnt mean Halifax is bound to always report it that way. All I 
can consider is whether or not Halifax has correctly reported information about the account, 
and if it hasnt whether that was to Mr Fs detriment.
Halifax has provided this service with screenshots from its systems showing the information 
it sent to each of the credit reference agencies, and Im satisfied those screenshots relate to 
Mr Fs account. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in confidence if it is 
appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Halifax has provided showing this 
information is part of its internal systems that isnt disclosed to consumers, and I have good 
reason to accept the screenshots in confidence and so I wont be disclosing them to Mr F. 
Ive seen the information Halifax has reported to Experian, Equifax and TransUnion and to 
each of them Halifax has been reporting the account as a 6 every month. Im satisfied that 
element has been reported correctly as Mr Fs account has an arrears balance that is 
equivalent to more than six monthly payments.Halifax has no control over how each credit reference agency chooses to express the 
information it receives about the account, so I cant hold Halifax liable if Mr F feels it is 
misleading. 
All I can consider is if Halifax has correctly reported the information and, having considered 
everything, Im satisfied that it has. 
But thats not the end of it. Mr Fs credit reference file (as he saw it) may have appeared 
better for a number of years because he was in an arrangement to pay the arrears, which 
Halifax also reported to the three credit reference agencies. This also shows on the 
screenshots showing what Halifax sent to the credit reference agencies and so Im satisfied 
Halifax notified the agencies correctly.
The first issue came about when Mr Fs arrangement that he set up in November 2018 
ended. The contact note for 14 November 2018 says the arrangement was set to run for 
three months from 8 December 2018.
The notes indicate the following attempts to contact Mr F over the next few months (all dates 
are in 2019, and Ive put the content of the notes into my own words):
12 March There was no answer on either Mr Fs landline or mobile, and a message was 
left on his mobile to request a call back.
5 April There was no answer on either Mr Fs landline or mobile, and a message was 
left on his mobile to request a call back.
6 April Mr F called Halifax as hed received a letter. Mr F was told there was no 
repayment arrangement in place. He said he had some updates to make to 
his income and expenditure information and he didnt have the information to 
hand as he was at work. It was agreed that Mr F would call back by 19 April 
to update the information so a new repayment arrangement could be sent.
1 May Mr F answered his mobile phone and said he would call back.
25 May There was no answer on either Mr Fs landline or mobile, and a message was 
left on his mobile to request a call back
19 June There was no answer on either Mr Fs landline or mobile, and a message was 
left on his mobile to request a call back.
12 July There was no answer on either Mr Fs landline or mobile, and a message was 
left on his mobile to request a call back.
16 July Mr F contacted Halifax to provide his updated income and expenditure 
information. A new repayment arrangement was set for £381 a month for six 
months from 8 August. 
These are contemporaneous notes and having considered everything Ive no reason to 
disbelieve the content. It seems more likely than not that the notes are a true record of what 
happened at the time, especially as it seems contact was made with Mr F in that period, 
albeit he didnt set up a new plan immediately.
As there was no arrangement in place between March and July 2019, Halifax was correct 
when it didnt report Mr Fs account as being in an arrangement in that period. The information it reported shows as the account being in an arrangement from July 2019 until 
August 2021.
In August and September 2021 Mr Fs payments werent received by the date he had 
promised to pay under the arrangement that was active at that time, which was the 5th of the 
month, and so the arrangement failed. This means August 2021 was the last month that was 
reported to the credit reference agencies as Mr F being in an arrangement until he set up a 
new one.
I can only consider the acts and/or omissions of Halifax in this complaint, and having 
considered everything Im satisfied  having seen all the information that was uploaded  
that the information Halifax reported to the credit reference agencies was correct; that is that 
Mr Fs mortgage account was over six months in arrears (due to the historical arrears, rather 
than any missed payments more recently) and he wasnt in an active payment arrangement 
between March and July 2019 and from September 2021 until the new arrangement was put 
in place.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman