DRN-3274118
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the sale of two private medical insurance policies by Capture 
Health Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held private medical insurance cover with a provider (that Ill call B) for many 
years. 
In 2015, Capture recommended that Mr and Mrs M switch to a new provider (that Ill call A), 
as they wanted a cheaper premium. Mr and Mrs M agreed, and Capture arranged for a new 
policy to start with A on 1 December 2015.
Mr and Mrs M received a welcome letter from A. They were concerned from this that 
Capture hadnt told A about their pre-existing medical conditions. They sent A a list of this 
information. 
Mr and Mrs M told Capture they werent happy with their cover with Aviva. Capture therefore 
recommended they switch to another provider (that Ill call V). Mr and Mrs M agreed, and 
Capture arranged for a new policy to start with V on 22 February 2016 on a continued 
personal medical exclusions basis. 
The policy with V renewed each year. Then in 2019, Mrs M needed a hysterectomy. She 
made a claim under the policy, but this was turned down. V said that Mr and Mrs M hadnt 
told it relevant information about Mrs Ms health when taking out the policy. It said that if it 
had known this information, it wouldve applied an exclusion. It therefore applied the 
exclusion retrospectively and Mrs Ms claim fell under this. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Capture about the sale of the policy with A, and the policy with 
V. They said Capture hadnt asked them medical information when they applied for the 
policies. Capture didnt think either policy had been mis-sold, and so Mr and Mrs M brought 
a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. The policies were sold over the 
phone, and Capture didnt have a recording of the calls. However, based on the available 
evidence, she didnt think Capture had mis-sold the policies.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy taken out with A
Unfortunately, Capture doesnt have any call recordings. However, its provided a copy of its 
contact notes. These say that in October 2015, Mr and Mrs M were interested in a policy 
with A, as their cover with B was getting too expensive. Then on 21 October 2015 a note 
says no medical disclosures made and no to switch qs. Took Aviva policy.
A document summary of your demands and needs was then sent to Mr and Mrs M by 
Capture. This said that Mr and Mrs M considered the premium on their previous policy (with 
B) to be too expensive, and they wanted a cheaper alternative. Capture explained that it was 
recommending a policy with A, and the cost of that. It said the policy would be taken out on a 
continued personal medical exclusions basis, and that meant that A would continue to cover 
all conditions covered under the previous policy (with B). It then said:
According to the information declared on the Client Needs Analysis Document, you are not 
aware of any pre-existing medical conditions that would exclude any scheme members 
underwritten on this basis from the terms offered by the insurer for continuing cover.
Ive looked at the Client Needs Analysis document also completed on 21 October 2015, and 
this asked the following questions:
Have you (or any persons(s) to be covered under this policy) in the past 5 years received 
any medical treatment or undergone any medical investigations?
Are you (or any person(s) to be covered under this policy) taking any regular medication or 
having regular medical advice for any condition?
Are you aware of any other medical conditions or symptoms for you (or any person(s) to be 
covered under this policy) that may require treatment or advice in the future?
The answer recorded by Capture next to each of the above questions was no.
I note that these questions differed to the medical switch questions that A had asked. A 
wanted to know about consultations, tests or treatment in the last 12 months; current or 
future appointments; and treatment in the last five years relating to cancer, heart problems, 
or mental illness. However, Capture says its standard process is to ask a series of general 
medical questions (presumably those captured in the Client Needs Analysis document), 
which then generates a quote. It will then ask the insurers particular set of screening 
questions. According to Captures contact note of 21 October 2015, it seems that is what 
happened here.
The policy with A then went into force. Mr and Mrs M received a welcome letter from A dated 
29 October 2015. This included a policy schedule that said all pre-existing 
conditions/symptoms would be excluded, and to consider benefit for pre-existing 
conditions/symptoms, A would require them to supply further information. 
Its not clear why the policy schedule said this, given that the policy was being taken out on a 
continued personal medical exclusions basis. In any event, it understandably caused Mr and 
Mrs M some concern. They therefore wrote to A and said they were unsure whether Capture 
had passed on details of their health conditions and symptoms, and they wanted to be sure 
that their new policy would cover all their pre-existing conditions. They provided A with 
detailed information relating to their health, including that Mrs M was receiving treatment for 
a condition, and may need a hysterectomy in the future.
I dont know what A did next. The evidence from Capture would suggest that A had asked Mr 
and Mrs M for more information, but Mr and Mrs M say this isnt what happened. If A hadnt 
asked Mr and Mrs M for more information, I think its more likely than not, that A wouldve excluded some of their conditions, including Mrs Ms condition that required a future 
hysterectomy.
Its apparent that Mr and Mrs M were honest with A about their medical history, and that they 
wanted to make sure they had the same cover with A that they had with B. However, its also 
the case that the evidence from Capture supports that medical questions were asked  
those in the Client Needs Analysis document, and As switch questions, and that Mr and 
Mrs M didnt tell Capture about Mrs Ms condition. 
The demands and needs statement referred to Mr and Mrs M not being aware of any 
conditions that would exclude them from being underwritten. Whilst I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs M may not have known what conditions would prevent them from being underwritten, if 
they hadnt been asked any medical questions by Capture, I think this ought to have 
reasonably prompted them to question this with Capture.
Also, given Mr and Mrs Ms concerns that Capture hadnt told A about their medical history, I 
wouldve expected them to have raised this with Capture at the time, but it seems they didnt 
do so. If they had done, Capture couldve explained that Mr and Mrs M were only required to 
tell A about their health in response to the switch underwriting questions asked by A. If Mr 
and Mrs M thought Capture hadnt asked them the switch questions (and were concerned 
about exclusions that would be applied by A due to their medical history), it may not have 
been too late for Mr and Mrs M to remain with B. I say that because their policy with A wasnt 
due to start until December 2015.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I think the evidence supports that Capture most 
likely did ask Mr and Mrs M medical questions before they took out the policy with A, and 
that they answered no to those questions. I therefore cant reasonably conclude that the 
policy was mis-sold. 
Policy taken out with V
Again, Capture doesnt have any call recordings relating to the sale of the policy, which is 
unfortunate. However, its provided a copy of its contact notes. 
The contact notes say that Capture spoke to Mr M in early February 2016 regarding the 
policy with A, as he hadnt had a copy or heard anything (its not clear what this was referring 
to). Mr and Mrs M apparently werent happy with A as theyd had to send more information 
after Capture had submitted the application on their behalf, and would rather go with another 
company, for savings if possible.
Then on 11 February 2016, the notes say that Capture spoke with Mr M again regarding the 
policy with V, and he was happier with more cover if the cost still showed savings. It then 
said: Answers to med questions are No and therefore fine for Vitality switch  did quote for 
more cover.
I see that also on 11 February 2016, Capture sent Mr and Mrs M a copy of the quote 
provided by V, and said there were no forms to complete. Ive looked carefully at this quote, 
and it says:
If any applicant has personal medical exclusions applied to your current policy, then these 
will continue to apply under your new planYou will also need to answer a small number of 
medical history questions in respect of all applicants when applying for cover with us.
I think this wouldve made Mr and Mrs M aware that they would need to answer some 
medical questions.Capture then sent a document summary of your demands and needs to Mr and Mrs M. 
This said that it was important for Mr and Mrs M to have insurance with a well-known brand 
company, and after a discussion relating to V, they were happy to choose this provider due 
to the savings and discounts that V offered. It also said the policy provided an enhanced 
level of out-patient/diagnostic cover. The letter also said:
According to the information declared on the Client Needs Analysis Document, you are not 
aware of any pre-existing medical conditions that would exclude any scheme members 
underwritten on this basis from the terms offered by the insurer for continuing cover.
Ive looked at the Client Needs Analysis document that was completed on 22 February 2016. 
This document asked the same general medical questions in the previous Client Needs 
Analysis document that Ive quoted above, so I wont repeat these here. Though again, Mr 
and Mrs Ms answers to each of those questions was recorded as no.
I note the switch questions that V wanted to know related to:- any medical conditions or 
symptoms where the applicants were receiving treatment or taking medication; and if during 
the last 12 months the applicants had been treated at a hospital, clinic or nursing home, or 
had undergone tests or check-ups or were awaiting tests or treatment.
Captures contact notes only refer to medical questions, and dont mention Vs switch 
questions being asked. However, even if Capture did only ask the medical questions in the 
Client Needs Analysis, Im satisfied that these would have prompted Mrs M to disclose her 
medical condition.
The Client Needs Analysis document also said that the reason for the switch was because 
Mr M wasnt happy with A, and wanted to move.
As Capture had only recently arranged the policy with A, I find it odd that Capture didnt 
make further enquiries with A about why Mr and Mrs M werent happy with it. We raised this 
point with Capture, and it accepts that it would normally contact A in these unusual 
circumstances, but it doesnt know if a conversation like this took place, and has no notes of 
this. Though it does point out that if a conversation had taken place, and A were aware of 
any health conditions, A wouldnt have disclosed them to Capture due to data protection. 
Given that these events happened over six years ago, I recognise its difficult to try and 
establish what happened at the time. Though I think Capture makes a reasonable point that 
A likely wouldnt have told it about Mr and Mrs Ms health conditions that were later disclosed 
to it directly by Mr and Mrs M. 
As Ive said, given Mr and Mrs Ms concerns that Capture hadnt told A about their medical 
history, I wouldve expected them to have raised this with Capture at the time, but it seems 
they didnt do so. If they had done, this presumably wouldve put Capture on notice that 
some of the answers to the switch questions werent correct. This may have prevented the 
same situation arising when Mr and Mrs M applied for the policy with V. 
However, again, the evidence from Capture supports that Mr and Mrs M were asked medical 
questions when applying for the policy with V, and that they answered no to those 
questions. 
I also note that in 2019, Capture spoke with Mr M (as Mr and Mrs M were again looking to 
potentially switch to another provider) and on 12 February 2019, Mr M told Capture that he 
and Mrs M had no health conditions and no treatment planned (other than Mrs M having 
heart palpitations). On that basis, Capture obtained a quote from another provider. However, the following day, Mr M advised Capture that his wife had been booked in for a 
hysterectomy. 
Mr and Mrs M would have known on 12 February 2019 that Mrs M had a health condition 
and needed a hysterectomy for her condition. Its therefore not clear why they answered the 
medical questions in the way that they did. Though this does seem to support that they may 
have done the same when taking out the policy with V in 2016. 
Overall, Im satisfied the available evidence supports that Capture most likely asked Mr and 
Mrs M medical questions before they took out the policy with V, and that they answered no 
to those questions. The evidence also supports that Mr M wasnt happy with A and wanted 
to change provider, and so it wasnt unreasonable for Capture to recommend a different 
policy. I therefore dont find that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman