DRN-2927132
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited pursuing him for a 
debt which he says they should not pursue him for.
What happened
This complaint is about a defaulted credit card account which was sold to Cabot in late 2003.
Mr B says the account should be statute barred and so Cabot were harassing him. He 
pointed out it should have been included in a Debt Relief Order (DRO) in late 2015.
Cabot said the debt wasnt statute barred as Mr Bs partner had made token payments until 
2016. They said when he was applying for a DRO this account may not have shown up as it 
had fallen off his credit file by then.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They didnt think 
Cabot had harassed Mr B, but they did think the debt should have been included in Mr Bs 
DRO. They noted Mr B was retired, had no assets, was caring for someone with mental 
health issues, and would not reasonably be able to repay the debt. They said Cabot should 
write it off.
Cabot didnt agree. They felt they hadnt had enough opportunity to consider the point about 
the DRO, even if they agreed this should probably have been included. They said writing a 
debt off was a last resort for them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Only a court can decide whether a debt is statute barred or not  I dont have the power to 
determine that. Though as our investigator noted, it has been fewer than six years since 
there were payments towards this account.
Ive considered Cabots communication with Mr B, but it doesnt look like theyve been 
corresponding with him excessively or unreasonably. They were entitled to pursue him for 
this account, at least until the point where it should have been written off in the DRO.
In regard to the Debt Relief Order, I agree that this account should have been included  as 
Cabot now appear to accept, too. It was an eligible debt and would not have taken Mr B over 
the relevant debt threshold. And Cabot ought to have known about the DRO at the time, 
given it owned another of Mr Bs accounts that was included in the order. Indeed, its internal 
systems for this account appear to even note Mr Bs DRO.
Further, from what I can see of Mr Bs circumstances, he is retired, is caring for someone 
with mental health issues, owns no significant savings or assets, and has very little 
disposable income. His circumstances are highly unlikely to change, and at the current rate it 
will take him several hundred years to pay off this debt.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Mr B to have to go through a second DRO now 
just to include this debt  not least with the time, stress, fees, and credit file implications that 
involves. It would be much fairer for Cabot to simply treat this account as if it had been 
included in the prior DRO and write it off.
Cabot say they havent had sufficient opportunity to consider this point. But I can see they 
discussed it with Mr B as part of the complaint correspondence as far back as January 2020. 
Our investigator also discussed this point with Cabot before their assessment, as part of the 
assessment, and after the assessment. Cabot also discussed this with another department, 
too. And Cabot had many further weeks to think about this issue before the case came to 
me. So I think theyve had more than sufficient opportunity to consider this. Further, we have 
an inquisitorial remit and consider complaints holistically  and this point is fundamentally 
intertwined with this complaint, rather than a separate issue.
Putting things right
I direct Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to treat this account as if it had been 
included in the 2015 Debt Relief Order. That means writing off the debt and no longer 
pursuing Mr B for it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman