Page 1 of 5The complaint
Mr H has complained about the losses he suffered when trading foreign exchange contracts 
upon the advice of A.N. ALLNEW INVESTMENTS LTD (LegacyFX).
What happened
Mr H became a client of LegacyFXs services after opening his account in September 2020. 
He carried out trades and incurred losses so raised a complaint.
LegacyFX didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. It said;
The market had gone against Mr H and experienced large market fluctuations
resulting in his funds being affected.
LegacyFX couldnt guarantee any sort of return for clients when dealing with markets
which were out of its control.
Any trading signals that it presents were not to be understood as advice.
Carrying out trades in complex financial products that LegacyFX offers carries
various risks that can result in loss of capital and its clients should fully understand
those risks.
It wasnt prepared to offer any compensation as Mr H hadnt been defrauded and its
representatives made sure he was aware of the risks involved. All losses incurred
were due to Mr Hs own trading actions on his own account.
Remaining unhappy with the outcome Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. In 
his initial opinion he said;
He explained he couldnt consider a complaint about trades carried out prior to
31 December 2020. After that date LegacyFX  which is based in Cyprus  had
opted into the Temporary Permissions Regime (TPR) applicable to the UK so he
could consider trades carried out between 1 and 8 January 2021.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) register suggested that LegacyFX wasnt
authorised to advise its customers about derivative contracts. But the investigator
concluded that advice had been given after reviewing transcripts of messages
between LegacyFX and Mr H.
Mr H had incurred losses of around £13,000 and the investigator thought that should
be repaid to him along with £300 for the distress and inconvenience he had suffered.
DRN-4125257Page 2 of 5Mr H accepted the opinion of the investigator. LegacyFX didnt accept any wrongdoing but 
did offer Mr H £5,000, later increased to £6,500, as a gesture of goodwill to settle the matter 
but would require him to sign a letter of release form.
LegacyFX then offered Mr H £13,000 which the investigator thought was a fair reflection of 
the amount Mr H had lost but maintained that LegacyFX should pay him an additional £300 
for the inconvenience he had suffered.
Mr H rejected the offer. In the investigators second opinion letter to Mr H he clarified that the 
offer was fair  it represented the loss Mr H had suffered net of profits. He didnt think it was 
fair for Mr H to be paid compensation for the losses while also keeping the profits. LegacyFX 
shouldnt have given him any advice from the outset of his relationship. He also clarified with 
LegacyFX that Mr H shouldnt have to sign a waiver.
LegacyFX sent Mr H payment of £13,542.00 which was the overall loss he had suffered plus 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr H wasnt happy with the payment and he thought the investigator had changed his 
opinion when he issued his second view letter.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on reaching a different conclusion than the 
investigator about how the matter should be put right but I asked both parties to give me 
anything further they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I 
said;
I have considered whether LegacyFX did provide Mr H with advice. Mr H has 
provided us with transcripts of some of the conversations that were held between him 
and a representative of the business. After reviewing them, I am of the opinion that 
LegacyFX did give advice to Mr H.
Because of that, the investigator concluded that LegacyFX had not acted in line with 
its terms and conditions and the FCAs register suggested it wasnt authorised to 
offer advice on derivative contracts in any event. And I agree that is the case.
I note that in LegacyFXs Overview of Terms and Conditions it states;
Trading Signals
The trading signals provided by the company are not, nor intend to be, an 
offer or solicitation to enter any forex transaction. It is solely the account 
holders/clients decision to determine which, if any trading signals are to be 
used for trading on their account(s). The client understands that past 
performance associated with any trading signals, whether actual, 
hypothetical, or historically back-tested is neither necessarily indicative of 
nor a guarantee of future performance or success. Clients are aware that any 
trading signal may result in the total loss of funds deposited.
Please note that all suggestions, advice, or recommendations offered by the 
companys agents or contained on the trading signals offered, are not 
formulated by the company itself nor constitute any opinion or official call-to-
action by the company. Instead they are derived solely from the current 
readings of the market from an independent third party, which is subject to 
change. Any information given should not in any way be construed, either 
explicitly or implicitly, directly or indirectly, as investment advice, 
recommendations, or be suggestive as an official investment strategy with 
respect to a financial instrument.Page 3 of 5Ive borne this in mind when considering the complaint and when reviewing the  
transcripts of the messages between Mr H and LegacyFX. The business has said 
any trades are solely at the discretion of the customer. But from the transcripts Ive 
seen I am satisfied that during conversations with Mr H the representative went 
beyond just giving information for Mr H to decide whether he should act upon it. I 
think advice was given and as a result Mr H acted on that advice.
Samples from some of the transcripts of the calls are;
06.01.21 - LegacyFX: sell 1 lot more gold 
now
so we can full[y] hedge it
07.01.21  LegacyFX: we must unhedge at the right time
and buy if we get a green light
07.01.21 - Mr H: I need to chat about the sell stop. So many       
questions.
LegacyFX: When you have time we will speak
Mr H: I think it kicked in
LegacyFX: close now
as its profiting
and price is consolidating
and set up one at
1909
08.01.21 - LegacyFX: we will put some other limits just in case
market will take care of itself
I know its hard, but.Must trust this one
we have the same goal there at the end
Mr H: Ok thats my last 3k..this has got to work
The above suggests to me that Mr H was reliant on LegacyFX and that it gave him 
advice in order for him to trade. So overall, Im satisfied that advice was given and 
LegacyFX needs to put the matter right as concluded by the investigator as it was 
acting outside of its regulatory permissions and its own terms and conditions.
To put the matter right, I note that LegacyFX has already paid Mr H £13,542.22 
which represents the overall loss Mr H made while he was trading with LegacyFX 
plus £300 for the distress and inconvenience that Mr H suffered. But I dont think that 
sum is correct.
I say this because The Trade History Report provided by LegacyFX for when Mr H 
was trading shows that overall Mr H made a gross profit of £18,057.10 and a gross 
loss of £31,299.32 leaving a net loss of £13,242.22. Mr H wants the profit of 
£18,057.10 paid to him as well as the net loss. But that is for the whole of the time  
Mr H was trading, and not just for the trades that took place between 1 and 8 January 
2021.
When we uphold a complaint, we look to put the complainant back in the financial 
position they would have been but for the actions or inactions of the business. So, 
the customer shouldnt be any worse or better off after the matter has been put right. 
In this case however I have to consider the Financial Ombudsmans jurisdiction to Page 4 of 5look into a complaint as the rules within which we abide by dont us allow to consider 
all complaints.
As explained above, I cant consider any trades that were carried out prior to 11pm 
on 31 December 2020. After that date LegacyFX  which is based in Cyprus  had 
opted into the Temporary Permissions Regime (TPR). As a result, we can consider 
a complaint about trades carried out between 1 and 8 January 2021.
To explain further, the TPR was part of the UKs preparations for Brexit and was 
established for firms based in the EEA to transition to the UK full regulatory regime. 
But before 31 December 2020, because of where it is based, LegacyFX wasnt within 
the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman so I cant consider anything prior to that 
date.
So, this will have an impact on the redress that is due to Mr H as I can only award 
redress for the period from 1 to 8 January 2021. For those trades The Trade History 
Report shows Mr H suffered a loss of £20,212.07. He didnt make any gains during 
that time. And in any event, I wouldnt award any profits as well as losses. This is 
because I am of the opinion that LegacyFX shouldnt have been giving any advice to 
Mr H at all  not just for the advice given which incurred losses.
Putting the matter right
My provisional decision on how LegacyFX needs to put the matter right is to pay him 
for the losses incurred on his account between 1 and 8 January which looks to 
amount to £20,212.07.
LegacyFX has already paid for the loss of £13,242.22 so it has to pay the difference 
between that figure and the losses Mr H incurred between 1 and 8 January 2020.
It has already paid the £300 for the distress and inconvenience as awarded by the 
investigator so it doesnt need to pay anything further.
With regards to any trades carried out prior to 1 January 2021, if Mr H wanted to 
make a complaint about those, he would need to raise that with the Cyprus own 
ombudsman.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H agreed with it. And LegacyFX said it also 
agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr H and LegacyFX agreed, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. So, I confirm those findings and reiterate how LegacyFX should put the matter 
right. 
Putting things right
LegacyFX needs to pay Mr H for the losses incurred on his account between 1 and 8 
January which looks to amount to £20,212.07.Page 5 of 5LegacyFX has already paid for the loss of £13,242.22 so it has to pay the difference 
between that figure and the losses Mr H incurred between 1 and 8 January 2020.
It has already paid the £300 for the distress and inconvenience as awarded by the 
investigator so it doesnt need to pay anything further.
I understand that LegacyFX is already in the process of paying the redress to Mr H. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and A.N. ALLNEW INVESTMENTS LTD 
should put the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman