DRN-2821853
The complaint
Mr A complains that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (trading as 
Positive Solutions) failed to provide him with appropriate advice regarding the transfer of 
some occupational pension savings in December 2004.
What happened
Mr A has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company. But in 
this decision I will generally refer to all communication as if it had been with Mr A directly.
Mr A held pension savings within an occupational pension scheme (OPS). His employer 
was facing financial difficulties, and the trustees of the OPS had written to members to warn 
them that some analysis was being undertaken on whether the accrued pension benefits 
would need to be reduced given the likely lack of future employer support for the liabilities.
In December 2004 Quilter advised Mr A to transfer his pension savings from the OPS into a 
personal pension. Mr A accepted that advice. He has recently become aware that the OPS 
had joined the Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS) so protecting the pension entitlements of 
those members that had not transferred out. Mr A considers that he would have been better 
off remaining as a member of the OPS and so the advice Quilter gave to him in 2004 was 
unsuitable.
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He concluded that the 
limited evidence he had seen suggested that the investment returns Mr A would have 
needed from his personal pension, to match the benefits provided by the OPS, were likely to 
have been achievable. And given the problems that the OPS was facing, and the possibility 
of benefits being reduced, he thought the advice to transfer was suitable. So he didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. He thought that an analysis based on a critical yield 
calculation was extremely crude. He thought it far more important that he was giving up 
guaranteed benefits with little capacity for loss to his retirement savings. He didnt consider 
that the OPS was in a dire situation at the time and said this was evidenced by it continuing 
unsupported for almost nine years before joining the FAS. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr A and by Quilter. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is very little evidence from the time showing the process that Quilter followed before 
giving its recommendation to Mr A. Broadly speaking I would generally expect to see 
evidence that a firm had gathered information about a consumers financial circumstances 
and assessed their attitude to risk. And I would expect to see a detailed comparison of the 
benefits that had been accrued in the OPS, and those that might be available following a 
proposed transfer to a personal pension arrangement. Those taken together would then form 
the basis of a recommendation that could be presented to a consumer showing the pros and 
cons of the proposed transfer, with some clear advice about how they might proceed.
The majority of what I would expect to see has not been provided by Quilter. But I dont think 
it would be reasonable to immediately reach a conclusion that those documents were not 
produced at the time. The regulator set out the need for that depth of analysis when 
assessing transfers of this nature, and I have no reason to conclude that a regulated firm 
such as Quilter simply disregarded those requirements. I must consider that it is entirely 
possible that, over the passage of time, the documents have simply been lost.
Quilter has been able to provide us with a two-page summary of the information that was 
gathered at the time, and the recommendation that was given to Mr A. I can see that Mr A 
has signed that document so I think it reasonable to conclude that it was discussed with him. 
And I also think it reasonable to infer from that, that it is likely that Mr A would have asked for 
some more details of the background to the information in that summary if it hadnt been 
provided to him.
The information that Quilter recorded suggested that Mr As pension savings, following a 
transfer, would need to grow by less than 5% per annum in order to match the benefits he 
would receive from the OPS. In 2004, when the advice was given, growth of that size was 
reasonably expected at even the lowest expected growth rates. I can see from the 
information this Service published that we would have expected someone of Mr As age to 
have reasonably expected growth of the order of 6.2% per annum. So on the basis of the 
raw financial information it seems that it might have been attractive for Mr A to transfer his 
pension savings from the OPS.
But I must take into account that by transferring pension savings from an OPS a consumer 
would be generally exposing themself to the risks of having a lower income in retirement 
should their pension investments not perform as expected. If the transfer didnt take place 
those risks would generally be borne by the OPS, not the consumer.As I said earlier the OPS in which Mr A held his pension benefits was facing an uncertain 
future. Its sponsoring employer was facing financial problems, and it was unlikely to receive 
any further financial support. It had told its members that it was likely the benefits they were 
due would be reduced. And, in 2004 when the advice was provided, the governmental 
support for pension schemes, in the form of the FAS and later the pension protection fund, 
was in its infancy. The exact nature of the support that would be provided by FAS wasnt 
detailed until the following year. So I dont think Mr A should have had any great confidence 
at that time in the strength of the guarantee he was giving up.
In 2004 Mr A had around 19 years until his expected retirement. So, given what I know about 
his other circumstances, I think it reasonable that a firm would have concluded his attitude to 
risk was at a moderate level. I can see that Mr As application for the personal pension 
asked for his pension savings to be invested in a balanced fund. I think that would be a 
reasonable approach for someone in his circumstances, and reasonably thought likely to 
achieve the levels of investment growth he would need.
So in summary, I think it was a reasonable for Quilter to hold confidence that Mr A would be 
financially better off by transferring his pension savings. The growth that would be expected 
was likely to result in a higher level of pension than he would have received from the OPS. 
And the concerns about the future ability of the OPS to meet its liabilities are likely to have 
reasonably mitigated the additional risk that Mr A was taking by moving to a personal 
pension.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr A. Investments havent performed 
as strongly as might have been reasonably anticipated in 2004. And although the admission 
of the OPS into the FAS in 2013 might have protected the pension benefits he would have 
received from the scheme, that couldnt have been reasonably foreseen by Quilter in 2004.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman