DRN-3772140
The complaint
Mr A complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) delayed his three pension transfers. He 
feels this led to a financial loss. He also feels that because Phoenix took some time to 
explain why his transfer values had fallen, it should compensate him for lost investment 
returns.
Mr A has been represented in his complaint by his financial adviser (FA). But Ill only refer to 
him in my decision.
What happened
Mr A had three pension plans with Phoenix. On 19 April 2021, his chosen new provider, who 
Ill refer to as provider A, issued a request to Phoenix to transfer all three of Mr As pension 
plans to it. 
Mr As three pension plans included guaranteed benefits. So Phoenix wrote to Mr A on 21 
and 22 April 2021 to tell him that it was a legal requirement for him to provide evidence that 
hed received financial advice on the transfers. The letters also stated how to demonstrate 
that such advice had been received. 
On 6 and 11 May 2021 Phoenix wrote to Mr A again about his three plans. It said he hadnt 
yet responded to its April 2021 letters with the information it needed so it could transfer his 
pensions. 
Mr As FA said that she called Phoenix on 11 May 2021 to ask it to send any requests to her 
as well as Mr A to ensure they could be processed quickly. She said she sent the written 
confirmation of the financial advice Phoenix needed the same day.
Phoenix has provided a copy of the letter it said it send to Mr As FA on 18 May 2021. This 
again asked for confirmation that Mr A had received the financial advice he needed. Mr As 
FA told this service that she didnt receive this letter. She also said there were no follow-up 
calls from Phoenix to ask for the information it still needed. She said shed been told by 
provider A that as Phoenix hadnt received a response, it had closed down all three transfer 
requests. Mr As FA said Phoenix didnt call her or Mr A to ask them if they were happy for 
the transfer requests to be closed down.
Mr As FA followed-up with Phoenix about his transfers on 16 June 2021.  She said shed 
called to confirm exactly what it needed. Phoenix then received the information it needed 
about the financial advice. And the transfers took place on 7 and 13 July 2021.
Mr As FA said shed called Phoenix on 14 July 2021 to ask why the transfer values had 
reduced. She said there were no Market Value Reductions and no transfer penalties. And 
felt that the fall in values had occurred during a time when market movements had generally 
been positive. 
Mr As FA said that Phoenix told her it would provide reasons for the reduced transfer 
values. But she said shed called eight further times since 14 July 2021, and hadnt been 
given any update. She said this was very distressing to Mr A. 
As the amounts transferred were lower than previous quotes Mr A had shown, Mr A raised a 
complaint on 2 August 2021. He felt the delays Phoenix had caused had led to a financial 
loss. Mr As FA sent further letters in August 2021 further detailing the complaint. 
At the time of his complaint, Mr A still had a few days of the 30-day cancellation period 
available to him. So he couldve cancelled his three transfers. But he said he didnt want to 
make any decision on this until Phoenix had investigated and confirmed the reasons for the 
changes in transfer values. 
Mr A also said that he didnt feel well-enough informed at this time to invest the transferred 
funds in case the investment markets fell before he then took the decision to cancel the 
transfers. This was because he didnt yet know why his transfer values had reduced. So he 
felt he should wait until he had all the information before making the decision.
This led to Mr A holding the money that had been transferred to provider A in cash until 
Phoenix had explained the reasons for the fall in transfer values. Mr A felt that he had been 
penalised for not investing his pension funds before he knew what had happened. And felt 
that this had led to a further financial loss. 
Mr A also asked Phoenix to consider if hed lost out due to the delays itd caused to the 
transfers. Mr As FA said that the delay due to the wording on the confirmation of advice 
being incorrect couldve easily been avoided if Phoenix had sent the request directly to her.
Mr As FA wrote to Phoenix on 28 September 2021. She felt that Mr A had missed out on 
investment growth of 1.74%, which equated to a financial loss of £2,703.34. She also felt 
that Phoenix shouldve called her, or used the email address that had been stated on the 
letters of authority that had been issued to it, rather than a general email address for the 
business she worked for. 
Phoenix issued its final response to the complaint on 28 September 2021. It upheld the 
complaint as it agreed it had caused a delay. It said it had incorrectly closed down provider 
As request to make the transfers. It said if it hadnt closed the request down, it couldve 
made the transfers on 17 June 2021. Phoenix apologised and offered Mr A £100 for the 
inconvenience itd caused him. 
Phoenix said that the transfer values were the same on 17 June 2021 as they were when the 
transfers actually went ahead. So felt thered been no financial loss. It also said that the 
reason for the fall in values between the higher values Mr A had seen and the transfer 
values actually used was annuity rate changes. Phoenix also asked Mr A to provide 
documentary evidence if he felt it had caused him any financial detriment. 
Phoenix replied to Mr As FA on 12 October 2021. It said the transfer values had been 
correct. 
Mr As FA asked Phoenix to reconsider the complaint on 26 November 2021. She said that 
although shed issued her letter of authority for Mr As three pensions to Phoenix, it hadnt 
taken the opportunity when it had replied on 7 January 2021 to tell her about its requirement 
to receive written confirmation of financial advice. Nor had it explained the very specific 
wording it needed. 
Mr As FA also said that none of the 21 April 2021, 6 May 2021 or 11 May 2021 letters from 
Phoenix had told Mr A that confirmation of advice was outstanding. Nor had the letters asked 
him to take any action, or explained the implications of not responding. She also said that if provider A had been copied into the correspondence, or contacted when a prompt response 
hadnt been received, the outstanding requirement for confirmation of advice wouldve been 
identified significantly sooner. She felt that Phoenix shouldve been responsible for providing 
a declaration for advisers to complete alongside the plan holders instruction form.
Mr As FA said that she had calculated that the transfers wouldve taken place on 3 May 
2021 but for the delays Phoenix caused. She also said that during the period from 3 May 
2021 to 11 August 2021 the portfolio in which Mr A was to invest in grew by 3.13%. So she 
felt that Phoenix should further compensate Mr A for £4,862.90 in respect of this loss.
Phoenix issued its response to Mr As FA on 10 December 2021. It acknowledged the points 
that had been made, but said that it still considered the position it had outlined in its 28 
September 2021 final response letter was correct. 
Phoenix said it had corresponded appropriately with all parties and within reasonable 
timescales. It felt the content of its correspondence was in line with its regulators guidelines. 
And that its letters hadnt lacked clarity. It also didnt agree that it had failed to highlight to 
either Mr A or his FA that financial advice would need to be obtained. It said its 7 January 
2021 letter had highlighted this requirement. 
Phoenix acknowledged that the letter of authority had noted a designated email address. But 
said that the covering letter the FAs company had sent alongside it had also included the 
email address itd used. 
Unhappy, Mr A brought his complaint to this service in February 2022. He didnt feel that 
Phoenix had fairly considered its actions and subsequent impact those actions had had on 
him. Mr A felt that hed incurred a financial loss of £11,790.82.  
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She said that although Phoenix 
had agreed that it caused a delay and shouldnt have closed down the transfer request 
prematurely, it hadnt used a reasonable date to calculate financial losses. She felt that 
Phoenixs suggested date of 17 June 2021 didnt take into account that the transfers 
couldve completed earlier if Phoenix had taken ownership of the situation and pro-actively 
attempted to solve it. She felt that any losses should be calculated based on a transfer date 
of 25 May 2021.
Our investigator didnt consider that Phoenix should be held liable for Mr As decision to 
delay investing the transferred funds until Phoenix had explained why his transfer values had 
fallen. 
Our investigator also asked Phoenix to pay the £100 compensation for the inconvenience it 
had caused Mr A to him if it hadnt already done so. 
Phoenix agreed with our investigator. And said it would calculate the transfer values of Mr 
As three pension plans as of 25 May 2021.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator. Mr As FA made the following points:
- Shed complained to Phoenix on 2 August 2021 due to concern that the cancellation 
window on the transfers was running out, while Mr A still didnt know why his transfer 
values had fallen. She said she was told on 10 August 2021 that the reduction in 
transfer values was due to changes in annuity rates. And that Mr As funds were 
invested on provider As platform on 12 August 2021.
- She said that Mr A had held off from investing until 12 August 2021 because Phoenix couldnt confirm why the transfer values had dropped. And that the initial reason 
Phoenix gave her on 14 July 2021 was that the fall had been caused by market 
fluctuations. But that as Mr A had been invested in a with profits fund this explanation 
had caused concern. And Mr A hadnt felt comfortable investing his transferred funds 
until he had a proper explanation.
- Mr A felt that the reason Phoenix gave after it had reviewed the situation couldve 
altered the suitability of the advice to transfer. And couldve resulted in the transfers 
being cancelled. If the transferred funds had been invested into the market, and if the 
market had then fallen while Mr A waited for Phoenixs explanation, he couldve 
suffered a loss. 
- Mr A felt that Phoenix should be liable for this as he was unable to make an informed 
decision regarding the investment of funds until it had assessed and confirmed the 
reason behind the drop in transfer values. 
Phoenix told this service on 19 August 2022 that it had carried out the loss calculations our 
investigator had recommended as if the transfers had taken place on 25 May 2021. It 
provided the detail of the calculations and said that these showed that Mr A hadnt suffered a 
financial loss because of the transfer delay. 
Our investigator issued a second view on 1 September 2022. She hadnt changed her view 
of the complaint. She acknowledged Mr As reasons for not investing the transferred funds 
until Phoenix had explained why the transfer values had fallen. But felt that it was always Mr 
As decision to hold off on investing his funds. And that there was nothing practically 
preventing him from doing so. She felt that as there was no evidence that Phoenixs delayed 
response to the question about the reduced transfer values had prevented Mr A from 
investing his transferred pensions, Phoenix couldnt fairly be held responsible for Mr As 
investment decisions. 
Our investigator also told Mr A that as Phoenix had calculated that he wouldnt have been 
financially better off if the transfers had taken place on 25 May 2021, all that was left for 
Phoenix to do was to pay the £100 compensation, if it hadnt done so already.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that Phoenix cant 
fairly be held responsible for Mr As decision to hold his transferred funds in cash until after 
itd explained to him why his transfer values had fallen. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Phoenix acknowledged that it caused delays to the transfer process. But considered that Mr 
As transfers shouldve been carried out on 17 June 2021, rather than 7 and 13 July 2021. 
Mr A felt that the transfers wouldve been carried out on 3 May 2021 but for Phoenixs 
delays. And our investigator felt that they wouldve been carried out on 25 May 2021.
So I first considered when the transfers shouldve taken place. I agree with our investigator 
that the crucial point was when Phoenix requested confirmation of advice but didnt receive 
what it needed for several weeks. Mr As FA said in her 26 November 2021 letter to Phoenix that: at no point do you tell Mr 
A that confirmation of advice is outstanding or ask for him to take any action, nor do you 
state the implications of not responding. 
Our investigator felt that this wasnt correct. And I agree, because all three April 2021 letters 
from Phoenix confirming that a transfer request had been received included a notice that 
advice confirmation was required, as did all three of the reminder letters sent in May 2021. 
Each letter included the following section, or something very similar: 
How to demonstrate that advice has been received?
The financial adviser must provide us with written confirmation of the following:
-that advice specific to a transfer of a policy with guaranteed benefits has been given:
-that they have permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 to carry on the regulated activity in article 53E of the Regulated Activities Order;
-the Financial Conduct Authority reference number of the company or business the 
adviser works for authorising them to carry on that regulated activity. 
-Appointed Representatives of a Principal Firm should provide their own Financial 
Conduct Authority reference number;
-your name, date of birth and policy number; and the name of the scheme/company in 
which the guaranteed benefits are held and in respect of which the advice has been 
given.
The 18 May 2021 letter from Phoenix to Mr As FA also stated: 
In order that we can demonstrate compliance with the legislative requirements placed on us I 
ask that you confirm;
- That you have provided advice specific to the transfer of safeguarded benefits to Mr A in 
relation to policies R35235, R41335 & R63326; and
- That your firm has permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 to carry on the regulated activity in Article 53E of the Regulated Activities Order
I look forward to receiving confirmation on these two points as soon as possible to allow the 
proposed transfer to proceed.
I acknowledge that Mr As FA said she didnt receive this letter. But as Phoenix has provided 
this service with a dated copy of this letter with the correct address, Im satisfied it did send 
the letter.
Im also satisfied that Phoenix did make it clear to Mr A and to his FA that confirmation was 
required that the FA had provided the relevant advice needed for the transfers. And that it 
also explained why such information was needed. But I consider that Phoenix couldve done 
more when it received wording on or around 12 May 2021 from Mr As FA that didnt meet its 
requirements. And I agree with Mr As FA that Phoenixs earlier letters didnt state that the 
confirmation of advice was outstanding.
As Ive already noted, Im persuaded that Phoenix did write to Mr As FA about the missing 
information on 18 May 2021. I consider that it was reasonable for Phoenix to have taken a few days after receiving the first wording from Mr As FA before it wrote to her to explain it 
needed additional confirmation. But I agree with our investigator that it wouldve been helpful 
to have called or emailed Mr As FA to explain what was needed. Im satisfied that this 
wouldve avoided further delays. And I dont consider that closing the transfer requests was 
a reasonable thing to do in this case. 
Mr A could also have helped to progress his transfers. While I acknowledge that his FA 
called Phoenix on 11 May 2021 to ask it to send any requests to her as well as Mr A so that 
they could be processed quickly, Mr A could also have shared any requests from Phoenix 
with her.
Phoenix has accepted that it shouldnt have closed the transfer requests. It felt that the 
transfers wouldve taken place on 17 June 2021, when it received the required details of the 
advice confirmation. But I agree with our investigator that this couldve been provided much 
earlier if Phoenix had followed up by phone or email about the confirmation it needed, rather 
than closing the transfers. 
On the basis that Mr As FA usually responded to Phoenix within a day, Im of the view that if 
Phoenix had followed up about the outstanding information with a call or email to her, she 
wouldve provided the correct advice confirmation by 25 May 2021.
Having concluded that I agree with our investigators analysis of the situation, and that the 
transfers wouldve taken place on 25 May 2021 but for Phoenixs delays, I can now consider 
whether Mr A suffered a financial loss as a result of those delays. 
Phoenix has carried out loss calculations as if the transfers had taken place on 25 May 
2021. Im satisfied that these showed that Mr A didnt suffer a financial loss because of the 
transfer delay. But I also need to consider Mr As other complaint that Phoenixs delay in 
confirming why his transfer values had fallen led to him deferring the investment of his 
transferred funds.
I should first note that Ive seen no evidence that Phoenix sent Mr A any incorrect transfer 
values at any time. Phoenix has also confirmed that the transfer values that it paid to 
provider A were correct.
Mr A didnt feel he was responsible for the investment growth hed lost by delaying his 
investment of the transferred funds with provider A while he waited for Phoenix to investigate 
and confirm why his transfer values had fallen. 
Mr A said he didnt feel he had enough information to invest the transferred funds. And was 
concerned that if he did so, he might lose out financially under the circumstances.
I understand why Mr A was concerned about investing his transferred funds. But I dont think 
Phoenix can fairly be held responsible for this. I say this because its often the case that a 
consumer has more than one transfer value quote before deciding to transfer to another 
provider. And its common for transfer values taken six months apart to be different, as all 
sorts of market factors affect the values. So I wouldnt normally expect a business to be held 
responsible for a consumers investment choices while that consumer waited for an 
explanation about why the transfer value had changed. I say this especially in cases like this 
one where the quoted transfer values were correct.
I also agree with our investigator that it was Mr As decision to hold the transferred funds in 
cash while he waited for Phoenixs explanation. And that it wouldve been reasonably clear 
to him that if Phoenix upheld his complaint, he wouldve been put back into the position he 
wouldve been in but for any Phoenix errors or delays. As long as Mr A took the investment decisions he wouldve taken but for any Phoenix errors or delays any losses wouldve been 
put right.
Overall, I uphold this complaint, as I consider that but for Phoenixs delays, the transfers 
wouldve gone ahead on 25 May 2021. However, I dont consider that Phoenix is responsible 
for Mr As decision to hold his transferred funds in cash until it provided him with the reasons 
for his transfer values falling.
I also consider that the delays caused Mr A some distress and inconvenience. Phoenix has 
previously offered £100 in respect of this. I consider that this is reasonable under the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that the transfers shouldve gone ahead as of 25 May 2021. 
Phoenix has already carried out the financial loss calculations I would expect. These showed 
no loss. Therefore there is no financial redress for Phoenix to pay.
Phoenix offered Mr A £100 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused him. If it 
hasnt already paid this, it should pay it to Mr A now.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons above. Phoenix Life Limited should take the actions 
detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman