DRN-2807487
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Experian Limited dont have older accounts on his credit file; and 
that they wouldnt share data with him when he didnt pass security, but did share his data 
with a credit card company he applied to.
What happened
Mr S applied for an account with a credit card company, but was turned down. The credit 
card company said they used data from his Experian credit file.
Mr S applied for an account with Experian to see his data, but wasnt able to pass security. 
Experian wouldnt tell him why hed not passed security. He was unhappy that Experian 
wouldnt share his data with him, but had shared it with the credit card company.
Once Mr S did access his credit file, he found that some older accounts were missing, which 
he was also concerned about. He felt that every time a company did a credit check, Experian 
should ask the individual whether anything was missing.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that lenders choose which credit reference agency or agencies they record data 
with and are responsible for what they record. They explained that Experian hadnt shared 
data with Mr S when they werent sure whether he really was Mr S  which was fair  and 
that it made sense not to tell people how the security procedures worked. They explained 
that a credit check was different, and that the credit card company was a fully regulated and 
verified business, so it made sense that Experian shared Mr Ss data with them  not least 
as it was for an account application Mr S had genuinely made.
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that if Experian couldnt verify him, then they shouldnt share his 
data with anyone. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should explain that were here to resolve individual complaints  its the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (or FCA for short) who regulate the way the industry works and 
look at things more broadly. Mr S has made a number of comments which concern the way 
credit referencing works more generally, which Im not best placed to comment on. Instead, 
Ill mainly focus on whether Experian did anything wrong in his individual case.
I understand it wouldve been disappointing for Mr S to get turned down for the credit card. 
But Experian didnt make any decisions about whether to give Mr S the credit card or not. 
They just gave the credit card company the data from Mr Ss file  and Mr S would have 
given the company permission to get this data when he applied for the card. The credit card 
company were then responsible for their own decision whether to lend to Mr S, or not.
Experian also dont decide who stores data with them, and they cant force a company to 
use them. Broadly speaking, its up to lenders to choose which credit reference agencies 
they use and what information they give, and the lenders are responsible for their own data.
In case its helpful, Ill also explain that the credit file is only there to show whats happened 
in the last 6 years  so if an account has been inactive or closed for longer than that, it wont 
normally show up. And sometimes, if an account is still open and active but was opened a 
long time ago, it might have been opened before the standard terms and conditions included 
getting permission to share data with credit reference agencies. So for Mr Ss older accounts 
that that could explain why those businesses might have chosen to not share data with 
Experian.
In any case, its not Experians fault if Mr Ss lenders have chosen not to share data with 
them. Mr S can speak to those companies if hed like them to give information to Experian.
While I understand Mr Ss point of view, Im afraid it would not be possible for Experian to 
get in touch with consumers and double-check credit checks in the way that Mr S has 
suggested  far too many credit checks happen every day for that. And Experian are not 
required to do so, either.
I do appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr S when he got turned down for his 
Experian account, as he was only trying to see his own data. But since he wasnt able to 
pass security, it was the right thing for Experian to turn him down, since they couldnt be sure 
it was really him applying. And it makes perfect sense that they dont tell people why they 
failed security or how to pass it in future  as that would rather defeat the purpose of the 
security process. Its completely understandable if Mr S wanted to know why he didnt pass 
security, as hed only want to know for benign reasons. But other people would use such 
information to try to game the system or commit fraud, so its reasonable that Experian 
doesnt give out this information to anyone. Ultimately, Mr S can always try applying for an 
Experian account again. And in any case, I can see that Experian have since sent Mr S a 
copy of his statutory credit report.
Mr S questioned why Experian didnt share data with him, but did share it with the credit card 
company. Thats because Mr S didnt pass security, so Experian couldnt be sure if they 
were really dealing with Mr S or not  from their perspective, it might have been someone 
pretending to be Mr S trying to look at his sensitive data. Whereas the credit card company 
was a verified, regulated customer, whod gone through their own security process and had 
Mr Ss permission to access his credit file for a genuine credit card application. It definitely 
wasnt someone pretending to be the credit card company  it was the real thing.
I understand that Mr S may be unhappy with how credit referencing works more generally. 
But as I mentioned before, were not the regulator, and I cant change how things work in 
general. My main concern is whether Experian did anything wrong in this individual case. 
And as far as I can see, Experian did nothing substantially wrong here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman