DRN-4371890
The complaint
Mr J complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118) recorded 
negative information on his credit file and sold his debt to a third-party. He doesnt believe 
its treated him fairly.
What happened
I recently issued my provisional decision about this complaint. I invited both parties to let me 
have any further evidence or submissions by the 4 October 2023. Below is an extract of 
what I said in my provisional decision. 
What happened
Mr J held a credit card with 118. He missed the contractual payments that were due in 
February and March 2022, as he had cash flow problems due his clients not paying. 
He spoke with 118 on 22 March, to see what assistance it could give him and says that he 
left the call with the impression that as long as he made some payments towards his account 
each month, no adverse information would be recorded on his credit file, including a default. 
Mr J spoke with 118 again on 4 May. He wanted to discuss making repayments towards the 
balance. He gave 118 more detail about his circumstances, including that hed been sick and 
the situation with his clients hadnt improved. 118 said that it would need to go through an 
income and expenditure assessment to see if a payment arrangement could be supported 
and sustained to deal with the accumulated arrears. Mr J was in a hurry, so 118 said a 
budget sheet would be emailed to him to complete and return. The account was put on hold 
from collections activity for seven days.
On 12 April a notice of default had already been issued but Mr J says he didnt know about 
this at the time. He called 118 on 23 May to discuss the account and says that it was during 
this call that he found out the account had been defaulted on 11 May. 
Mr J told 118 that he hadnt received the default notice and that hed been assured that as 
long as he made payments each month, his credit file wouldnt be negatively affected. So, 
hed arranged to pay £10 on 15 March, £20 on 22 March and £20 on 27 April, yet these had 
been recorded as missed payments on his credit file. He didnt think hed been treated fairly 
in relation to this or the default that had followed.
118 investigated but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It reiterated when the default 
notice had been issued and explained the onus was on Mr J to manage the account and a 
responsibility on it to report the account status accurately. 
Mr J didnt agree so he referred his complaint to us. He was concerned 118 hadnt 
answered his complaint and had sold the account to a third-party. One of our investigators 
took a look at what happened but he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. In 
summary, he found:
The account was in three months arrears when 118 had sent the default notice. It 
was entitled to issue the notice at this stage given industry guidance. 
Mr J made some payments but these werent the actual payments due. So missed 
payment markers were correct. 
Hed looked at the contact notes and was satisfied 118 had been clear his credit 
would be negatively affected while the account remained in arrears and overlimit.
He noted that a hold had been put on the account for 30 days on 22 March to give 
Mr J some breathing space and get in touch with payment proposals by no later than 
21 April. However, Mr J had failed to make contact. A second hold had been put on 
the account on 4 May for 7 days. But hed also missed this deadline for responding. 
So, in the circumstances, the investigator didnt think the registration of the default 
and other adverse data was unfair.
Mr J didnt accept the conclusions. He asked that his complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. As well as reiterating all the points above, he made the following additional 
points that were important to him  in summary:
The investigator had relied on the contact notes but hadnt requested and listened to 
the call where hed been misled. This was material evidence that supported his 
complaint. 
The investigator hadnt answered his complaint about 118 selling the account to 
another business. 
Hed told 118 that hed been going through a difficult period due to his health and 
bereavement. But no account had been taken of this when providing support.
The complaint was passed to me for a review and the investigator sent Mr J a copy of the 
call from the 22 March inviting him to comment. 
Mr J added the following, in summary:
Hed made 118 aware of the personal circumstances that had led to him getting into 
financial difficulty but there wasnt any 1:1 support. He said he was stressed. 
There was government guidance for financial institutions during covid. But 118 didnt 
afford him the opportunity of similar support, for example, a payment holiday or 
interest suspension.
He didnt have any other defaults or judgements on his credit file. He needed a clear 
record to tender for work and the default had affected his ability to get additional 
work. Hed previously been a good customer, repaying a loan before the end of the 
term. 
He didnt dispute owing money, however, 118s processes and procedures were 
unfair. Material correspondence was sent 2 weeks after it was dated which was 
underhand.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Missed payment marker
Its not in dispute that Mr J had not made the contractual payments due since February 
2022. While I understand the reasons for this, the ICO guidance is clear in that anything less 
than the contractual payment may be recorded with the credit reference agencies. Principles 
for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies is 
recognised good industry practice. This says, 
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed
amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs
as being in arrears.
If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may result in the
lender taking some form of action. This could include notification of their intention to report
the account as defaulted.
The purpose of reporting arrears is to indicate that a customer is showing signs of potential 
financial difficulty. The guidance goes onto to say that arrears are reported as missed 
payments through status codes such as 1, 2 etc which are based on the number of months 
missed.
The situation is different where theres a formal arrangement to pay. But thats not what 
happened here because Mr J didnt enter into a different arrangement with 118. Instead, he 
made small payments of varying amounts. These were neither his contractual payments or 
the result of a formal arrangement. 
Ive gone on to consider whether 118 misled Mr J about the impact this would have on his 
credit file. I have listened to the call that took place on 22 March 2022. A copy of the call was 
shared with Mr J. 
Mr J asks what options are available to him and the advisor tells him that they can either set 
up an arrangement to pay on the account or place the account on hold for 30 days. Mr J opts 
for the latter option. He asks will this affect his credit file and is told it will whilst his account 
remains past due and overlimit, which it was at the relevant time. Given this, I dont agree 
118 misled him about the consequences on his credit file. He may have misunderstood but I 
dont think that was as a result of 118 misrepresenting the situation to him.
The terms of Mr Js credit agreement also said, 
If you do not make your Minimum Payment by the payment due date, you will be in
breach of this Agreement. If you miss a payment:
(a) you may pay more overall;
(b) we may require you to repay any arrears immediately;
(c) we may report your breach to credit reference agencies so you may find it more difficult 
to obtain credit in the future;
Given all of the above, I dont agree 118 wasnt entitled to report on the account negatively.
Default
In the call of 22 March, 118 and Mr J agree that the account will be put on hold for 
30 days and hell revert by 21 April at the latest. Mr J doesnt get in touch by this date. 118 
say that collections activity will resume after the hold. I note that 118 sent a default notice on 
12 April which wasnt helpful given its own written communications said it wouldnt contact 
Mr J while the account was on hold, which included requesting payment from him. However, I dont think this materially changes what happened with the default. Because even if the 
notice had been issued after the 30 days hold expired, Mr J wasnt in a position to satisfy the 
default. In a later call with 118 he says hes situation with being paid hasnt improved.
Relevant ICO guidance says that if a customer falls into arrears on their account, or does not 
keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the 
relationship has broken down. As a general guide this may occur where the account is 3 
months in arrears, and normally by the time there are six months arrears. Here Mr Js 
account was already in three months in arrears by the end of April. So, Im satisfied a default 
would have been legitimately triggered towards the end of the month. And as Ive said, given 
Mr Js financial circumstances he wasnt in a position to supress it  he told 118 that his 
clients had gone into liquidation, hed lost £10,000 and that he cant make the payment thats 
due. 
Thinking about everything as a whole, I dont find theres a basis for instructing 118 to 
remove the default.
I understand Mr J hasnt made any payments in the last twelve months. 
Mr J says that 118 didnt send the default notice and other letters until later because of when 
he got them. He thinks its guilty of poor practice. And hes highlighted such practice 
elsewhere. I cant be sure of when the letters were posted or if these were stuck in the postal 
system. But, given my overall findings that Mr J wasnt in a position to stop further arrears, I 
dont think this point affects the registration of the default.
Sale of debt to a third-party
The terms and conditions of the account entitle 118 to pass the debt to a third-party. I realise 
this wasnt what Mr J wanted, but I havent seen anything compelling to explain why the debt 
shouldnt have been sold when his agreement allowed for this.
Support
I appreciate non-payment of the invoices would have been very difficult for Mr J  he says 
hes stressed. 118 should have sympathised and looked at what help it could offer. On this 
point, I can see that it said it was sorry to hear about the situation and it started to give 
details of the free debt advice charities. Mr J said he knew about them already and didnt 
need any more details. 118 also put two options to Mr J when exploring what it could do, and 
he opted for the account to go on hold and for him to revert to 118 by 21 April. However, Mr 
J didnt get back in touch by this date. I appreciate he may have had a lot going on at the 
time, but I dont think this means he wasnt offered appropriate support.
Mr J has mentioned other support he feels he should have got. But any forbearance or other 
change (even if a temporary) would have required an income and expenditure assessment 
to be carried out. This gives providers a detailed and accurate picture of a customers 
financial situation, which includes any other creditors, commitments and money coming in to 
see if any formal arrangement can be accepted and sustained. Even if the default notice had 
been delayed until the end of April, Mr J didnt do go down the route of completing the 
assessment in March or get in touch by the 21 April.
Mr J has also referenced help over covid. Tailored support guidance was issued to 
businesses to help customers experiencing financial difficulties, as a direct result of the 
pandemic. But this specific support didnt apply by this point in 2022.
I appreciate Mr J sharing personal details of his health and the loss he suffered in 2022. But these matters werent brought to 118s attention in the initial call and until later. So, I dont 
consider 118 made a mistake in the support it did attempt to offer.
Other matters
I have noted that Mr J has referenced the third party that owns his debt. Hes explained he 
spoke to it about his complaint. I can understand why he would have done that given thats 
who his relationship is with. But I wont be making any comment or findings in relation to 
that third-party, as this review and decision purely relates to 118.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
118 didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr J did. By way of summary, he said:
- He hadnt been offered Government suggested support schemes for people in 
financial difficulty. He wasnt given a payment holiday when he was struggling 
with medical issues and had bereavement.
- Predated letters arrived too late for him to do anything with
- 118 sold the debt to a third-party and failed in the process. It had failed to tell the 
credit reference agencies formally that it had sold the debt. This had caused him 
difficulty as two defaults were recorded (one by 118 and one by the third-party). 
Hed had to resolve this issue himself. But neither 118 nor the debt purchaser 
had been helpful. The presence of two defaults had resulted in him being 
declined for credit, work contracts and paying expensive insurance premiums. 
- He had raised a separate complaint with us about the third-party debt purchaser. 
But wanted to know if 118 had explained why they failed in their responsibility to 
inform the credit reference agencies that the debt had been sold. The credit 
reference agencies and debt purchase indicated this is 118s fault. 
- Hed spent 126 hours on this matter. He appreciated the initial ruling, but his next 
step would be a legal challenge. 
- He wanted the default removed and proper redress paid, as he considered there 
had been a dereliction of duty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be departing from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I said in my provisional decision, Mr J was offered support. I discussed what happened in the 
calls in relation to sign posting and the holds that were placed on his account to enable him 
to get back to 118. So, its not the case that he wasnt given any support. I was satisfied 
specific measures relating to the pandemic had ceased to apply when he was in touch with 
118.  I havent changed my mind on this. I understand Mr J remains unhappy with the circumstances that led to 118 recording the 
default. But he hasnt provided anything compelling as to why the default was recorded 
wrongly. Its important to understand that there was no formal arrangement to pay less than 
the contractual amount, instead Mr J made ad hoc payments. 118 said it would impact the 
credit file. 
The account at a point was legitimately three months in arrears, which in line with ICO 
guidance is sufficient to trigger a default. Mr J believes communications were sent 
deliberately late. But I cant be satisfied. In any event, I think he knew enough about the 
status of the account to know it was behind in payments and that this situation couldnt 
continue without consequences. The terms and conditions referenced in my provisional 
decision support this position. 
I also found that looking at Mr Js overall circumstances, he hadnt appeared to have been in 
a position to have satisfied the default. So, with this in mind, there wasnt a basis to require 
its removal. I havent seen anything persuasive to refute this. 
I realise Mr J still isnt happy with 118 selling his account. However, the terms of his 
agreement permitted this. Theres not much more I can add.
Mr J has highlighted in his submissions that two defaults were recorded as live on his credit 
file in relation to the same debt. He says hes had to try and resolve this matter himself over 
the course of many hours. I can see that he believes 118 is responsible for the situation 
arising. Hes also raised concerns about the third-party debt purchaser. I make two 
comments on these points. Firstly, the issue with the two defaults isnt something that Mr J 
raised as part of his original complaint referred to 118, when he was given referral rights to 
come to our service. So, I have no power to decide on this as part of my review. Secondly, I 
cannot deal with the complaint he has about the third-party, because this case is only about 
118 and the original complaint.
I understand Mr J feels he was let down by 118 in relation to the subject matter of this 
complaint and he feels very strongly about what happened. But taking all of the above into 
consideration, I adopt my provisional decision as part of this final decision and wont be 
requiring 118 to take action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman