DRN-2170848
The complaint
Mr M complains about not being able to use the digital wallet service on his phone, and 
about the customer service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mr M has both debit and credit cards with NatWest, which can be registered with the digital 
wallet service on his phone. In May 2020, Mr M says the digital wallet service stopped 
working when he tried to make a payment. He says he received an error message which 
read card not valid and was directed to contact his card issuer. He says he tried to contact 
NatWest on the phone, but couldnt get through to anyone. So he reported the issue via the 
webchat service.
Mr M was initially told he couldnt use the digital wallet service as he hadnt made a chip and 
PIN transaction on any of his cards in the last 30 days. He was advised that the issue would 
be resolved once he did this. But Mr M said he still experienced issues following this. He 
visited a branch, and also spoke to several other advisers on the webchat service, to try and 
resolve the problem. Mr M was ultimately put through to a manager on the webchat service.
The manager explained shed received a notification that Mr M was currently not eligible for 
the digital wallet service. She said she couldnt explain why, but she would escalate the 
issue to NatWests technical department. She also apologised that he wasnt given this 
information previously. Mr M remained unhappy with this and complained to NatWest. In 
particular, he made the following points:
Hed since been able to register his cards on his friends device. So how would this 
be possible if his cards arent eligible for the digital wallet service?
Hed never had an issue registering his cards before.
The digital wallet service provider ran three diagnostic tests on his phone which 
showed no issues. So the problem must be with NatWest. 
Hed spent a lot of time trying to resolve the issue, including 45 minutes in a branch 
where nobody helped him.
Nobody was available to speak on the phone and he had to use the webchat service.
He asked to speak with a manager several times on webchats, but the advisers 
initially told him this wasnt possible, and ended the conversations. He thought this 
was rude.
NatWest investigated matters. It acknowledged Mr Ms frustration at being told he wasnt 
eligible for the service, but said it could only relay the information received from the digital 
wallet service provider when it tried to register his cards. NatWest also said it had followed 
its processes by raising the issue with its technical team, who were best placed to deal with 
matters. NatWest agreed that the webchats couldve been handled better. But it did also 
think Mr M couldve been more forthcoming with providing requested information in some of 
the conversations. It also said Mr M had made some comments that it deemed to be 
threatening towards its advisers. 
NatWest acknowledged Mr Ms frustration with his visit to the branch, but explained that due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic it currently had a high demand for service at its branches. It also 
said Mr M threw his cards at the branch staff, which it didnt think was acceptable. It did, 
however, pay Mr M £75 for the customer service issues he raised, and the overall 
inconvenience of the matter. Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr M brought his complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said hed reviewed NatWests processes for setting up the digital wallet service on a 
customers device and thought it had followed these correctly. He also thought the fact that 
Mr M was able to use his cards on his friends phone indicated that there was a problem with 
Mr Ms phone, rather than his cards. So, NatWest didnt need to do any more to resolve 
things.
NatWest didnt challenge our investigators opinion, but Mr M did. He said hed provided a 
solution to the issue, involving deleting and re-entering a serial number, that NatWest didnt 
appear to have attempted. He also repeated some of his earlier points. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint, and Ill explain my reasons 
why below. 
In his testimony, Mr M says he is sure the issue must be with NatWest and his cards, and 
not his phone. This is because he says the digital service provider ran three diagnostic tests 
on his phone, which revealed no issues. But Ive considered that Mr M has also told us that 
hes since been able to register his cards on a friends phone and make purchases without 
any issues. So, on balance, it seems unlikely that the issue is with his bank cards.
Either way, I would still expect NatWest to investigate matters properly. And, from the 
evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded it did. Multiple webchat advisers reviewed the matter and 
the issue was also escalated to NatWests technical department. But it remained that no 
problem could be identified on NatWests side.
 
Mr M asked if NatWest had tried deleting and re-entering the serial number of his phone 
during its investigations. NatWest has explained it wouldnt have the capability to delete a 
customers serial number associated with their device, as this association isnt made on the 
banks system. I dont consider this an unreasonable response. So, whilst I understand 
Mr Ms disappointment in the digital wallet service not working, Im satisfied NatWest 
investigated matters properly.
I acknowledge that the service Mr M received couldve been better, as he was passed 
between different departments whilst NatWest investigated matters. But I think this was in an 
effort to get Mr M an answer. And, having investigated, it remains that no problem could be 
identified on NatWests side. Additionally, I think the £75 compensation it has already paid 
him fairly covers any poor service he received while it looked into things.
Mr M says hes unhappy that nobody was available to help him on the phone or in branch. It 
might be helpful for me to explain that in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, banks were only 
assisting those customers who had essential requirements in their branches. This means that what they needed could only be done in the branch and couldnt be done in any other 
way. Banks were also running limited phone services due to the pandemic. 
Mr M needed to use the digital wallet service, but NatWest didnt think this was essential. I 
understand Mr Ms frustration at the service not working, but he was still able to make 
payments using his bank cards, which were functioning with no issues. Ive also considered 
Mr Ms disappointment at not being able to speak to an adviser on the phone. But, 
considering the circumstances Ive outlined, I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably 
here.
Overall, I understand Mr Ms frustration at not being able to use the digital wallet service on 
his phone. But I cant fairly conclude that this is because of anything NatWest has done 
wrong.
 
My final decision
I dont think National Westminster Bank Plc needs to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman