DRN-3011750
The complaint
Mr M complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly approved a loan for a third party (the 
borrower) for which he stood as guarantor for.
Mr M is represented by a third party. But for ease; Ill refer to all submissions as if they were 
made directly by him. 
What happened
UK Credit approved the borrower for a £3,000 loan in April 2015. The term of the loan was 
36 months with repayments of approximately £150 per month.
Mr M says the borrower took advantage of him and pressured him into acting as the 
guarantor for the loan. He says he was unaware of the borrowers financial circumstances at 
the time of the application. Mr M says he has lost out financially as the borrower defaulted on 
the loan and caused Mr M to sell his property to settle the outstanding debt.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. In coming to this outcome he 
explained the information UK Credit gathered on the borrower during the application 
demonstrated that it should not lend. As such Mr M should not have been accepted as the 
guarantor.  
UK Credit disagreed with our investigator. It maintained that the checks it completed were 
proportionate and that these showed it made a fair decision to lend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. This is for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator set out.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about lending where guarantors are involved as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. 
UK Credit is aware of our general approach when considering these types of complaints; so I 
wont set this out in full here. As it will become apparent, Ive not made a finding in relation to 
Mr Ms informed consent, or affordability. This is because Im satisfied UK Credit should not 
have lent to the borrower in the first instance. So, any further finding I might make in relation 
to Mr Ms informed consent or affordability would not materially alter the outcome of the 
complaint.
In addition to any specific obligations UK Credit owed to Mr M as a guarantor, it still needed 
to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to the borrower. The relevant rules, 
regulations and guidance at the time UK Credit lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess the borrowers ability to afford the 
loans and repay them sustainably over their respective terms without causing them financial 
difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for UK Credit to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made without the need to borrow further or experience significant adverse consequences.
The fact this loan was secured by a guarantee and indemnity agreement, which meant that 
UK Credit had a second party to request payments from, didnt lessen the obligations that 
UK Credit had to ensure the loan was affordable. 
UK Credit searched the borrowers credit file; and obtained information from them to verify 
the application. These showed that the borrower had some negative markers (such as 
defaults) in the past. The borrower didnt have any active credit; and was managing their 
current account with a small positive balance. And whilst these checks mayve been 
proportionate, Im not satisfied based on the information it saw that UK Credit made a fair 
decision to lend.
UK Credit said in response to our investigator that the majority of the negative markers were 
historic  having been registered in the years before this application was made. It also says 
the borrowers current account was being well managed and showed no concerns.
Ive considered these arguments and Im not persuaded by them. Whilst it is true that the 
majority of the negative markers recorded against the borrower were historic; there was also 
a recent negative marker registered. The fact the borrower had no active credit and didnt 
appear to be reducing their existing debts to me suggests that there were likely issues with 
their finances. I find it notable that the borrower didnt have any active credit  this could 
arguably demonstrate his low credit worthiness; coupled with the fact they were seeking to 
get his credit with the security of a guarantor. The recent negative marker (albeit for a small 
amount) also indicated that the borrower may not have been managing their finances to 
sufficient level.
I also disagree the information UK Credit gathered demonstrated the borrower was 
managing their current account well. The information suggests this account was subject to 
multiple incoming and outgoing transfers which, in my view, ought have prompted further 
investigation or questioning of the borrowers finances. There is evidence of the borrower 
entering into their overdraft at points. The information does not persuasively demonstrate the 
borrower had the necessary funds to meet the repayments when they became due (I note 
the borrower only made a small number of repayments before missing payments and 
ultimately being defaulted by UK Credit). 
So Im not satisfied UK Credit made a fair decision to lend to the borrower in the first 
instance; as the information it had suggested that the borrower was unlikely to be in a 
position to repay the loan sustainably.
It follows that Mr M should therefore not have been approved as the guarantor for this loan either; as it should not have been accepted in the first place.
Putting things right
Mr M has lost out financially due to the actions of UK Credit. And as such it needs to put 
things right. The loan in question has been settled so Mr M is not subject to the agreement 
any longer; but he has made payments which he should not have been subject too. In order 
to put things right; I require UK Credit Limited to:
To refund any repayments Mr M has made toward the loan, with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;*
To remove any information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against UK Credit Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman