DRN-4184606
The complaint
Mrs C complains about St Andrew's Insurance Plc.
Mrs C is making a complaint about her Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), which was 
taken out alongside a Bank of Scotland mortgage in 2009.
Although the sale of the policy was undertaken by Bank of Scotland, it is St Andrews who is 
responsible for the complaint, as the insurer.
Mrs C says that the Accident, Sickness and Unemployment (ASU) portion of the policy was 
cancelled without her knowledge. She is concerned that a friend has ASU cover and that this 
is paying out on a claim her friend is making  but Mrs C doesnt have the same cover.
She is also covered that her husband was removed from the policy.
 
What happened
Mrs C complained to St Andrews, but it didnt uphold her complaint. She then brought her 
complaint to this Service.
Our Adjudicator looked into things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs C asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman to make a final decision, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld. I know that this will be 
disappointing for Mrs C, so Ill explain why.
I understand that Mrs C is unhappy that her ASU cover as part of her TMPP has been 
cancelled  however, I do not think that St Andrews has acted unreasonably by cancelling 
this part of the TMPP.
In 2017, Mrs C made a payment protection insurance (PPI) mis-sale complaint to Bank of 
Scotland. The ASU part of the TMPP policy she took out is a type of PPI policy. The 
complaint was upheld at the time, and Mrs C received compensation of £3,805.98 which 
included a refund of the premiums she had paid for the policy.
When a PPI mis-sale complaint is upheld, and the policy remains active at the time, the 
policy is cancelled. This is because when a complaint is upheld, it means that there was 
either something wrong with the sale of the policy, or that it wasnt suitable for a customer. 
To put things right, a customer is then put in the position they would have been had the 
policy never been sold  which means that this part of Mrs Cs policy was cancelled from this 
date. I can appreciate that this may not have been clear to Mrs C when she made the 
complaint that her cover would end  but I dont think that it has done anything wrong by 
cancelling this element of the TMPP.
I know that Mrs C is unhappy that her friend has ASU cover, and is currently making a claim 
on her policy. Mrs C is unhappy that she no longer has this cover, and that she would miss 
out financially if she wanted to make a claim for the type of things that ASU covers. But 
Mrs C complained that she was mis-sold the policy  and she cant have it both ways. Mrs C 
can apply for alternative cover if she feels that she needs this  but St Andrews no longer 
provides this type of cover, so she would need to apply elsewhere to do so.
I can also see that in 2017, Mr C wrote to St Andrews and asked to be removed from the 
policy which was in joint names at the time. I can see that St Andrews acted on this letter 
and sent confirmation that it had done so in December 2017. So, I cant say that St Andrews 
has done anything wrong here either.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Mrs C is also unhappy about the customer service she has received from Bank of Scotland 
when she communicated with it to try and find out what happened, and there have been 
some difficulties with communication. However, I am not able to consider a complaint about 
customer service on its own merits as this is not a regulated activity.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman