DRN-2120381
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging her an administration fee after she said she 
cancelled her agreement with them. Miss B says she was mis-led as to the service Allay 
provided.
What happened
Miss B said she made an online application for Allay to act on her behalf in making a PPI 
claim. Miss B said she took this option rather than making the claim herself as she said Allay 
led her to believe they would do everything. But her lender sent her paperwork to complete. 
Miss B couldnt see what value Allay was making to her claim so called them to discuss, but 
the wait time was too long. Miss B instead called her lender and told them to remove Allay 
as her representative.
Allay on finding out from Miss Bs lender that she no longer wanted them to act for her sent 
an invoice for the work theyd done. Miss B complained to them and was told she would 
have been informed that she may get additional documentation in the pre-sales call. Miss B 
said she never had a call and none of this information was on the online application journey. 
And if it had been, she wouldnt have asked Allay to work for her.
Miss B wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said while Allays terms werent specific about contact from the lender. They 
were clear as to what Miss B could do to contact Allay about any issue. And they offered a 
variety of channels for Miss B to get in touch. He said the administration fee they charged 
was in line with their terms and conditions.
Miss B didnt agree, she said she didnt dispute the fee but consideration should be given to 
it because of Allays mis leading online information, as if this had been the same as what 
they told customers in their pre sales call she would have acted differently. 
Miss B has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this  complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Miss Bs frustration as she thought shed agreed to a service where she 
had to do little to no work, hence removing any stress connected to making a PPI claim. In  
making my decision I need to determine whether Allays terms and conditions were clear. 
And whether Allay had acted fairly and reasonably in their dealings with Miss B.  
 
It isnt in dispute that Miss B signed up to use Allays services in making a PPI claim. So, Ive 
looked at the information Miss B was given when making this decision. I have looked at the 
online journey and I can see Allay say:
No stress  Let us take care of everything
And:
Support  we are here for you throughout the process
For her online application, Miss B would have been taken through a series of screens where 
she needed to enter her personal details. The application also needed details of Miss Bs 
lenders, and these details were provided. On completion of the application, a Letter of 
Authority (LoA) would have been generated and populated with this information. Allays 
terms and conditions were also available to see. The LoA had a number of statements just 
above the signature panel. One of which said:
I/We understand that, in addition to the present Authority I/We will need to provide further 
information when raising an expression of dis-satisfaction to the Lender, about the 
underlying product(s), service(s) and where known, specific account numbers(s) being 
complained about. Doing so will enable the Lender to assess and determine the complaint 
as quickly and effectively as possible.
I think this makes clear that the lender could need further information to progress Miss Bs 
claim, and as it was her claim, I think would have only been information shed know. And in 
signing the LoA Miss B had agreed to having read the LoA and Allays terms and conditions 
and to be bound by their contents. So, I dont think  Miss B was mis-led as it wasnt 
unreasonable for Miss B to have been asked to provide additional information and that this 
information was needed by the lender.
Miss B has said she was contacted directly by her lender to complete further documentation. 
And it was this request that prompted her to question what work Allay would be doing for 
her. I can understand Miss Bs frustration as she didnt think shed be contacted by her 
lender and that Allay would do all the work for her. But as outlined above some of the 
information that would be needed could only be known by Miss B so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for her to be asked to provide this. And she could have asked Allay to help her 
or explain why shed received these forms. I can see Miss B tried to speak to Allay but the 
wait time for her call was too long, so she went direct to her lender. And asked them to 
remove Allay as her representative.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. To cancel your contract
with us, either call Customer Services on 0191 462 0000, email your cancellation request to 
cancellations@allay.co.uk, download a Cancellation Form from
our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The Processing Centre, Trafalgar Street, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
Allay has shown they submitted Miss Bs complaint on 13 March 2019, this would have given 
her until 27 March 2019 to cancel within the 14 day cooling off period. But it wasnt until Miss 
B had a direct request from her lender that she took steps to end the agreement. I think it 
was for Miss B to let Allay know she no longer wanted them to act for her. I accept she did 
try to do this, albeit after the 14 day cooling off period, but she only tried one of the channels that was available to her. It wasnt until April 2019 that Allay was told by Miss Bs lender that 
shed asked them to remove them as her representative.
Allays terms and conditions go on to say:
If you terminate this agreement after the 14 day cooling off period and prior to an offer of 
redress, Allay reserves the right to make a reasonable and proportionate cancellation charge 
that will reflect the work undertaken by Allay in pursuit of your claim.
And I can see Allay has asked Miss B to pay £110 for the work they did. Allays terms and 
conditions dont give any specific examples of what they would charge in a situation such as 
this. But I dont think the amount seems unreasonable given they had submitted Miss Bs 
claim and had called, emailed and written to her.  
Allay has said the initial request for the fee was sent in April 2019, but Miss B said she never 
received this and it wasnt until October 2019 she was asked again to pay the fee. I can 
understand why Miss B wasnt happy. But I cant hold Allay responsible for Miss B not 
receiving the original invoice in April 2019.
I know Miss B will be disappointed with my decision but I think Allay have acted fairly and 
reasonably in what they have done.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman