DRN-1340609
 
The complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The bank cant confirm 
where the policy was taken out, Mr C recalls it was in one of the banks branches and the 
bank has agreed the sale can be reviewed on that basis. The policy gave Mr C protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what 
happened, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how 
Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Lloyds cant confirm the exact price of Mr Cs policy but it has given a range (from £0.59p to 
£0.79p per £100 of outstanding balance), and I have used the higher cost for my analysis. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr C says he asked for PPI to be removed from his account after Lloyds went through its 
process. But I can see that on the application form he signed PPI was selected. And the 
form gave him the option to decline the cover. The options to select or decline PPI were set 
out with equal prominence. Ive thought carefully about what Mr C said but I cant find 
enough other evidence to support his recollection, and I also have to take into account how 
long ago the sale was and how that might affect what he remembers. On balance, I think its 
most likely Lloyds made it clear to Mr C that he had a choice, and he agreed to take out PPI. 
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C. So it had to make sure it was right for 
him. I think it was based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C wasn't 
entitled to any sick pay from his employer. And the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 
months for all successful accident and sickness claims. It also gave him 12 months 
redundancy cover. Mr C says he had a car he could have sold. But the PPI would have 
prevented him from having to take such an extreme measure at what would be an already 
difficult time if he wasnt working. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr C if 
he was sick or lost his job.Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And even at the higher end of the likely price, the policy wouldve been 
competitively priced, and it was apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr C wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
- Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
- To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank 
plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman