DRN-1409165
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that during their mortgage application, a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy was mis-sold to them by Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of 
sale as The Leeds Permanent Building Society and then more recently as "Halifax")
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage in July 1993 with Halifax. They say that during their 
mortgage application, a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy was mis-sold 
to them. They say it was put to them that they couldn't have the mortgage unless they also 
took out the MPPI policy. 
The policy covered Mr and Mrs L equally. The policy was arranged so that they both held 
50% of the benefit offered. The policy covered against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. It was cancelled in May 2011.
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint and told Mr and Mrs L its 
unlikely to be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with this and asked for the complaint to be 
passed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L have said it was put to them in the meeting that they couldn't have the 
mortgage unless they also took out the PPI policy. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ls recollection 
of events are genuinely held. But the sale took place around 26 years ago and Mr and Mrs 
L's recollections are not detailed, this being completely understandable. Theres also very 
little evidence for me to look at and theres as much to say Mr and Mrs L agreed to the policy 
(and knew they had a choice) as there is to say otherwise. So Ive used my knowledge of 
MPPI to help me think about what is more likely to have happened here. And when i do this, 
I dont think Ive got much evidence to say the policy was mis-sold. 
I say this because Halifax sent us their original mortgage application form and i've also been 
able to see some paperwork from after the sale sent to Mr and Mrs L. Theres nothing on this 
that says MPPI is compulsory. I can also see that a box has been ticked on the application 
form to say that 'mortgage protection' was discussed between the advisor and Mr and Mrs L. 
So although the evidence in this complaint is very limited, on balance I think Mr and Mrs 
L would have probably known, back in 1993, that there was a choice to have the MPPI policy 
based on what i have said, and they chose it. Next, I looked at suitability as Halifax has said it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs L. In 
doing so its duty was to ensure it was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances. I think it 
was.
This is because both Mr and Mrs L appear to have been eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems 
to me to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and I dont think 
the cost would have been unaffordable. Mr and Mrs L are unsure what sick pay they held at 
the time of sale. Mrs L says she would have had up to 3 months worth of savings to rely on 
but the policy would have paid out alongside any provisions they would have had and it 
looks more likely for longer. So i don't think there is anything within their circumstance that I 
can see that would have made the policy unsuitable for them.
Mr and Mrs L's mortgage was also a long-term financial commitment and secured against 
their home. So not being able to keep up the repayments during any times of unforeseen 
difficulties could have had serious consequences for their family. The MPPI on the other 
hand, if successfully claimed on, was payable for up to 12 consecutive months and wouldve 
been in addition to any other means they already had in place. 
So I dont think Halifax recommending the policy was unreasonable and I think it was 
suitable for them.
After such a long period, I cant confirm whether Mr and Mrs L were given all the information 
they shouldve been given. But i can see that correspondence between Halifax and Mr and 
Mrs L after the sale mentioned the cost, who was covered and what the benefit was. I think 
its likely this disclosure of information was typical of the other information they would have 
been given during the sale.
I think the evidence shows Mr and Mrs L probably chose the MPPI, most likely because they 
thought it was of use to them. 
This means i don't think the MPPI policy was mis-sold. So Halifax doesn't need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs L paid for it. But Halifax has offered to give some of the cost of the 
MPPI back. This is because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
In conclusion, I don't think Halifax needs to do any more than what it has offered to do. 
Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs L now i've issued my final decision.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr and Mrs L's complaint about the mis-sale of the MPPI policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman