DRN-3074364
The complaint
Mrs R complains that PSA Finance UK Limited charged her for a missing service record 
when she returned car at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
My role is to consider what is fair and reasonable and while PSA are seeking to operate 
within the narrow confines of the wording of the finance agreement I do not think that leads 
to a fair outcome. 
Mrs R had an agreement which included servicing at a garage chosen by PSA. She had the 
car serviced but it failed to record one of those services in the log book. When the car was 
collected this was noted by the inspector and the same day Mrs R sent him a copy of the 
service invoices. 
The inspection is dated as having taken place on 11 January at just after midnight. I am 
presuming the time was recorded incorrectly not least because the photographs show it was 
light. So it seems that the service details were with PSA or its agent the same day and only a 
matter of hours after collection. That means when the car was sold by PSA it was sold with a 
full service history.  The only costs it may have incurred is the time taken to open an email.
I appreciate the finance agreement required Mrs R to have the service book stamped at the 
time of collection and she received a reminder of this and other requirements shortly before 
collection. However, she had every reason to presume that the main dealer would have 
done its job properly and completed the paperwork correctly. I note that a digital service 
record is also acceptable and it is not clear that the service garage had not made use of this 
option without Mrs R being aware.
In short I do not consider it either fair or reasonable to expect Mrs R to pay £200 or the 
reduced some of £150 offered by PSA in these circumstances.
Putting things right
 PSA should write off the charge. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to write off the charge of £200 and 
remove any adverse entries it may have placed on Mrs Rs credit file for non-payment of this 
sum. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman