DRN-2695463
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) chased him for the repayment of his debt 
despite a court order being in place preventing this.
What happened
Mr A held a business account with Barclays and in September 2018 they withdrew his 
overdraft facility and passed his bank account to their recoveries department. Mr A says he 
obtained a court order which should have prevented Barclays pursuing the debt. Mr A says 
this has added to his stress and anxiety and feels Barclays have acted unfairly in chasing 
him for the repayment of the debt. 
Barclays says they have responded to Mr As complaint and point out that part of his 
complaint has already been dealt with by this service and wasnt upheld. Barclays says they 
were entitled to pursue Mr A for repayment of the debt as a court hearing had dismissed Mr 
As claim and there was no evidence, they had chased for repayment leading up to the court 
hearing. Barclays have said given the court had ruled against Mr A, this service was not able 
to comment on the pursuance of the debt or issues relating to an earlier complaint, as this 
was not within our jurisdiction given the matter had been dealt with by the courts. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that this service wasnt able to consider Mr As complaint regarding Barclays chasing him 
for repayment as this had been dealt with by the court. With regard to the legitimacy of 
Barclays withdrawing the overdraft facility available to Mr A, the investigator felt Barclays 
had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the overdraft facility agreement and they 
had good reason to call in the debt. 
Mr A was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision.
I was sorry to hear of the stress this issue has caused Mr A and understand  it must have 
been a difficult time for him. When looking at this complaint I will consider whether Barclays 
have acted reasonably when they withdrew the overdraft facility from Mr A. I understand Mr 
A has also commented on the way his complaint has been handled by the investigator, but 
thats not for me to comment on, however I understand this is being considered separately. 
To be clear, I wont be looking at any issues relating to the direct debit problems Mr A might 
feel contributed to his debt, as this has already been decided upon by this service and we 
cant reconsider this. As the investigator has said in his view to Mr A, we cant look at 
whether Barclays were able to pursue him for the outstanding debt as this was dealt with in a 
court order in April 2019. In any event there is no evidence to support Mr As claim, Barclays 
issued any demands for repayment between the time the court hearing was applied for, and 
its final hearing in April 2019. 
This service isnt able to consider every complaint thats referred to us. Before we investigate 
a complaint, we must first make sure that we have the ability to do so under the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) that apply to us. 
As part of Mr As complaint is whether Barclays are able to pursue the debt, I am satisfied 
this point was clarified in the court order in April 2019 and under DISP Rule 3.3.4A  it says:  
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 
or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers that:
 (3) the subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court proceedings where 
there has been a decision on the merits; 
This leaves me to consider if Barclays acted reasonably when they withdrew the overdraft 
facility from Mr As business account. Mr A says Barclays acted unfairly here and not in 
accordance with good banking practice. I understand the point Mr A makes, so I have looked 
at whether Barclays have acted in a way we would expect to see in these circumstances. 
From the bank statements provided to this service they show a history of hard-core debt, 
unpaid items and the overdraft being in excess of the agreed limit available on the bank 
account. So, I cant see it was unreasonable for Barclays to have taken the action it did here. 
While Mr A may not agree, in any event, overdraft facilities like this, are repayable on 
demand and Barclays have provided details of the overdraft facility document which states 
under their standard terms :
4.2 The Facility is repayable by the Borrower on written demand by the Bank at any time . 
Any undrawn amounts of the Facility may be cancelled by the Bank at any time.
From the information available to this service, I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr A on two 
occasions in June and July 2018 asking him to pay into his bank account as it was over the 
agreed limit and in this letter asked him to get in touch if he was experiencing financial 
problems.  In August 2018 Barclays sent Mr A, a Termination Notice, asking for full 
repayment of the debt and stated if this didnt happen his bank account would be transferred 
to their recovery unit, in September 2018. It follows Barclays, as we would expect to see, 
gave reasonable notice of their intention to withdraw the overdraft facility and request its 
repayment.
While Mr A  has referred to other issues with Barclays, these primarily relate to Barclays 
pursuance of the recovery of the debt which, as I have mentioned earlier, unfortunately isnt 
something we can look at. Mr A has also mentioned Barclays treatment of him during the 
COVID pandemic, however, the part of the complaint we have looked at predates this, so I 
am unable to comment on this.
While Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman