DRN-2574165
The complaint
Mr V complains about the service he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
after it placed a block on a transaction he was attempting to make through online banking.
 
What happened
In late 2020, Mr V tried to transfer some money from his RBS account to an account with 
another bank online. He got a text from RBS saying it would call him shortly to discuss it 
further. After waiting for almost two hours for the call, Mr V phoned RBS and the payment 
was transferred successfully. He asked why he hadnt received a phone call shortly as 
promised and was told the system tried to make a call but for some reason it couldnt get a 
call out. 
Mr V complained to RBS that its message saying it would call him shortly was misleading. 
He was also unhappy that RBS didnt call him again when the first call didnt go through.
RBS said its fraud team has up to 72 hours to call a customer as part of its process, 
although it aims to call them sooner. Mr V had already called and spoken to the fraud 
department to update his account before they could call him again. It said no bank error had 
been made. 
Mr V remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought RBS had 
acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr V disagreed with our investigators view. He said the main point of his complaint was to 
ensure that RBS customers, including himself, could rely on RBS to provide adequate and 
consistent information to allow them to understand the reason for a delay and a reasonable 
estimate on the time it might take to resolve an issue. So, his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations require RBS to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. It also has a duty to protect the money in Mr Vs account from potential 
fraud.
The accounts terms and conditions list circumstances where RBS wouldnt follow an 
account holders instructions. These include:
we reasonably believe that you didnt authorise the instruction;
we reasonably suspect the instruction is fraudulent
They go on to say that if RBS doesnt follow the account holders instructions, it would 
usually tell them and gives a phone number to call if youd like to know why we didnt follow 
your instruction.
The terms and conditions also say:
If you tell us to make a payment (i.e. send money) in the UK, in most cases the payment will 
be made using the Faster Payments Service and the money will be added to the payees 
account immediately. In limited circumstances (for example, if we suspect fraud), the 
payment may take longer to reach the payees account.
RBS says it placed a block on the transaction Mr V tried to make because hed only recently 
opened his account. It wanted to make sure he had carried out the transaction and he hadnt 
been coerced or persuaded to make it. It sent him a text message to tell him this. Mr V called 
RBS before it had a chance to speak to him. The payment was released after Mr V had 
answered RBSs security questions.
I appreciate Mr V feels the use of the word shortly in its text message didnt make RBSs 
timescales clear and hes also concerned about the potential impact on other customers. But 
its not this services role to comment on a businesss processes or to tell it how to word its 
text messages. I can only consider how RBS has treated Mr V and the impact this has had 
on him.
While RBSs processes allow it up to 72 hours to carry out a payment review, this happened 
much sooner. The block was removed when Mr V called, resulting in the money being 
transferred around two hours after Mr V had attempted it online.  
Thats not to say that there wasnt some inconvenience for Mr V, who phoned RBS to 
arrange for this to happen. But if Mr V had been a victim of fraud and RBS hadnt taken 
steps to prevent money being removed from his account, the consequences could have 
been far worse for him.
Overall, I think RBS has acted fairly and in the best interests of Mr V. So, I dont require it to 
do anything further. 
RBS says it would be willing to consider compensating Mr V for telephone call costs if he 
provides evidence of these. Mr V should contact RBS directly, if still wants to claim for these 
costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman