DRN-2127897
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Renault Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Renault Finance 
that he signed in May 2016;
Renault Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality will 
depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr C was an ex-demonstration car with low mileage that 
was less than six months old and which had a price of £22,659;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr C made a payment to settle the agreement early in June 2018 but the cars turbo 
failed in November 2019 and he asked Renault Finance to pay for it to be repaired;
he wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service  and he paid 
£3,035.80 for the cars turbo and diesel particulate filter to be repaired in January 
2020;
our investigator said that the car wasnt reasonably durable so wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and he recommended that Renault Finance should: pay £3,035.80 to Mr C to 
cover the cost of the repairs made to the turbo and the diesel particulate filter; pay 
him £801.02 to refund him for the payments he would have made during the time that 
he was unable to drive the car had he not already paid the finance off; and pay him 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused;
he didnt consider that it should reimburse Mr C for any of the other costs that hed 
claimed and Mr C has accepted those recommendations but Renault Finance says 
that they dont take account of the age and mileage of the car or that the 
manufacturers warranty had ended  and it says that the car wasnt serviced by a 
manufacturers dealer as required by the warranty and theres no evidence of a 
manufacturing defect;
this is a finely balanced complaint as the car was nearly four years old and had been 
driven for more than 30,000 miles when the turbo failed  but Mr C has provided 
evidence to show that the car has been properly maintained and serviced;
the garage that repaired the car says that its unusual for the turbo to fail on a car of 
this age and mileage and I consider that it was reasonable for Mr C to expect that the 
car would last more than four years and could be driven for considerably more than 
30,000 miles before the turbo would fail;
having considered all of the available evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely 
than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for Mr C to expect it to 
be and, for that reason, that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
him; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to take the actions 
described below.
Putting things right
Mr C paid a total of £3,035.80 for the cars turbo and diesel particulate filter to be replaced in 
January 2020. I find that its fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to pay him £3,035.80 to 
reimburse him for those costs.
Mr C wasnt able to use the car for about two months between November 2019, when the 
turbo failed, and January 2020, when the car was repaired. The monthly payment under the 
agreement was £400.51. Although Mr C had settled the agreement before the turbo failed, I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to pay him £801.02 to 
compensate him for his loss of use of the car.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience to Mr C. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to pay him £250 to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Renault Finance to reimburse Mr C for any of the other costs that hes claimed  
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order RCI Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Renault Finance, to:
1. Pay £3,035.80 to Mr C to reimburse him for the cost of the repairs.
2. Pay £801.02 to Mr C to compensate him for his loss of use of the car.
3. Pay £250 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman