DRN-2116999
The complaint
Mr P and Miss W are complaining about Accord Mortgages Limited sending confidential
information about their mortgage application to Mr Ps previous address, where it was
accessed by Mr Ps estranged wife, Mrs P.
What happened
Mr P and Miss W applied for a mortgage with Accord to buy a new-build house together. Mr
P is separated from Mrs P although they are not yet divorced, and they jointly own the
marital home.
When the broker submitted the application they included Mr Ps previous address as the
correspondence address by mistake. However, they told Accord a few days later that the
address was wrong and should be changed.
Accord didnt update Mr Ps address and sent out a mortgage offer, addressed to Mr P and
Miss W, to Mr Ps old address where Mrs P still lived. Mrs P opened the mortgage offer
which contained confidential information about Mr P and Miss Ws house purchase and 
financial position.
Mr P says he had an amicable agreement with Mrs P for their marital home to be sold with
the equity being split 50/50. He was relying on this to buy the new property with Miss W. He
says that after seeing the mortgage offer from Accord, Mrs P changed her mind about their
agreement and instructed solicitors in their divorce. He says she also decided not to sell their
house. Mr P says that because the property he was buying with Miss W would now be 
classed as a second home, they would be liable to pay additional stamp duty, and would not 
be eligible for the Help to Buy scheme which they'd planned to take advantage of.
Accord admitted its mistake and offered Mr P and Mrs W £550 in compensation. Mr P and
Mrs W didnt accept this and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. After taking everything into account, he didnt
think the offer from Accord was fair, so he asked it to increase its offer to
£1,500. He also asked Accord to pay Mr Ps solicitors fees in the divorce; what hed already
paid and what he had yet to incur, as the divorce has not been finalised. He didnt think
Accord should pay the additional stamp duty, or compensation for Mr P and Miss W being
unable to access the Help to Buy scheme, because he didnt think there was any guarantee
Mr and Mrs Ps property would have been sold by the time Mr P and Miss W needed to buy
their new property.
Accord agreed to increase its offer for the trouble and upset to Mr P and Miss W to £1,500. It
also agreed to pay £3,000 towards Mr Ps solicitors fees. But it wasnt prepared to pay Mr
Ps solicitors fees going forward. It said, in summary, the information about Mr P and Miss
Ws house purchase could have come out at any point in the divorce proceedings, and there
was no guarantee Mrs P wouldnt have changed her mind about their amicable agreement
anyway.
The complaint was now been passed to me for a review and a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision on 24 June 2020 which Ive summarised below.
I didn't intend to ask Accord to do anything more because I thought the offer it had already 
made was fair, for the following reasons:
I thought it was difficult to say exactly what would have happened between Mr and Mrs P if 
Mrs P hadnt seen the mortgage offer. Although they had come to an informal agreement 
between themselves, I wasnt sure whether Mrs P would definitely have stuck to their 
agreement as things moved on with the divorce.
Mr P and Miss W said that because Mrs P changed her mind about selling the marital home,
Mr Ps position in owning another property meant they couldnt take advantage of the Help to
Buy scheme. They also said they became liable to pay additional stamp duty because Mr P
still owned another property at the time of completion and they hadnt budgeted for this. I 
concluded that when Mr P and Miss W applied for their new mortgage they did so on the 
basis that Mr P would be retaining his marital property and buying the new house as a 
second property. I said this because Mr P and Miss Ws mortgage offer wasn't made on the 
basis of receiving financial help from the Help to Buy scheme, and both the mortgage 
application and offer stated Mr P would be retaining the mortgage on the marital home when 
buying the new property. So, I didnt think these costs were unforeseen.
I thought that even if the marital home had been put up for sale in August 2019 as originally 
agreed between Mr and Mrs P, it was unlikely a sale would have completed in time for Mr P 
and Miss W to revisit their mortgage application before they were due to exchange on their 
new property. I could see that exchange had already taken place when the complaint was 
brought to us in September 2019. So, I didnt think Accords mistake led to the loss
Mr P and Miss W described.
I thought it was always possible that the agreement between Mr and Mrs P would have 
broken down before their divorce was finalised, even without Accords mistake. So, I didnt 
think it would be reasonable to ask Accord to pay for all Mr Ps solicitors fees in the divorce. 
In recognition of its error Accord offered to pay £3,000 towards the solicitors fees Mr P has 
already incurred. And I thought this amount, plus the additional £1,500 offered by Accord for 
the trouble and upset, making a total payment of £4,500, was reasonable. So I wasnt 
minded to ask Accord to increase its offer.
I asked Accord and Mr P and Miss W to reply with any further comments or evidence before 
I made my final decision.
Accord responded to say it had nothing more to add.
Mr P and Miss W responded to my provisional decision. They raised a number of points by 
email and over the phone which Ive summarised below:
Mrs P wouldnt have found out Mr P and Miss W were buying a house together or have 
found out about their financial position if Accord hadnt sent their offer to the wrong 
address - because they werent discussing financial details. It was specifically the access 
to their financial details and details of their borrowing capacity that were included with the 
mortgage offer that resulted in Mrs Ps decision not to go ahead with the amicable 
divorce theyd planned and led to the involvement of solicitors in the divorce which has 
led to significant extra costs.
Mrs P now wants to retain 100% equity in the marital property because she found out about Mr P and Miss Ws financial position from the mortgage offer. This wouldnt have 
come out in an online divorce process as there wouldnt have been a financial 
disclosure.
Mr P and Miss W intended to switch their mortgage to a Help to Buy product before 
completion once Mr and Mrs Ps existing property had been sold, and their broker had 
told them they could do this up to two weeks before completion on their new property. 
They werent able to do this because Mrs P changed her mind about selling the property 
after she saw their mortgage offer. And because they couldnt go ahead with the 
purchase on the Help to Buy scheme they needed to find a bigger deposit.
They needed to borrow money from family to pay for the additional costs that wouldnt 
have been payable if Mr P no longer owned his existing property at the time of 
completion.
Accord only sent us part of the offer it sent to Mrs P in error and intended to mislead us 
about what information was sent out.
My provisional findings were based on hypothetical scenarios and not on the facts of the 
case which demonstrate that Accords mistake led directly to the losses set out by Mr P 
and Miss W.
Mr P and Miss W feel theyve provided enough evidence to show that Accords mistake 
led to a significant financial loss they wouldnt have suffered if the mistake hadnt been 
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and Miss W, I havent changed my 
mind since my provisional decision. Ive explained why below.
Purchase of the new property and additional costs
Mr Ps explained to me that although he and Miss W didnt apply for a Help to Buy mortgage, 
they did intend to switch their mortgage application to a Help to Buy application once his 
existing property had been sold and before completing the purchase of their new property, 
which would have meant they required a lower deposit. Having spoken to Accord it seems 
this may have been possible although not straightforward. So, I accept that although Mr P 
and Miss W didnt apply for a Help to Buy mortgage, they did intend to switch to one before 
completion if they could.
However, Mr P told me they exchanged on their new purchase in September 2019, which 
was after Mrs P had seen their mortgage offer from Accord. And at that point the marital 
property hadnt been put on the market in August 2019 as theyd originally planned with 
Mrs P. So, it seems they did still have the option not to commit to the new purchase when 
the arrangements to sell the marital property hadnt gone ahead in August. 
After speaking to Mr P I understand why he and Miss W wanted to proceed with buying their 
new property when they did. And Im not saying they should have put their plans on hold  
that was up to them. But I do think Mr P and Miss W decided to proceed with their purchase 
knowing that it was possible the marital home wouldnt be sold in time for them to avoid the 
additional costs.And there are variables involved in selling a property which means I simply cant be sure that 
the marital property would have been sold before Mr P and Miss W needed to complete on 
the purchase of their new property even without Accords error. So, after careful 
consideration, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the additional upfront costs they 
paid in their purchase because Mr P still owned another property are a direct consequence 
of Accords actions. 
Cost of divorce and division of equity
I do understand Mr P feels that the costs hes incurred during his divorce, and through Mrs P 
changing her mind about what would be a fair split of the equity in their existing property, 
wouldnt have happened if Mrs P hadnt found out about his financial position through 
Accords mistake. One point in the redacted divorce petition it does say that the purchase of 
a larger and more expensive house than the matrimonial property that came as a shock to 
Mrs P, so I think this was a factor. It looks like Mrs P raised other points in the petition too, 
although Ive not seen all of these.
But ultimately there was no guarantee that Mrs P wouldnt have found out about the house 
purchase, and its cost, before the divorce was finalised  or that she wouldnt have changed 
her mind about involving solicitors or going through financial disclosure as the divorce 
progressed. And from the evidence Ive seen I dont think I can reasonably say that Accords 
error led directly to Mrs Ps decision to involve solicitors rather than going through an online 
divorce process with a 50/50 equity split, or point to it as the only reason Mrs P decided to 
take this action. I think its more likely that a combination of factors led to this situation. So, I 
dont think Accord should be liable for all of Mr Ps solicitors fees in the divorce.
Accords evidence to us
I can see that Accord didnt originally give us a full copy of the mortgage offer it had sent to 
Mrs Ps address in error. Mr P spotted the discrepancy, and we then obtained the full 
document. But I dont think Accord intended to mislead us, and Im satisfied with the 
explanation its given us about how this happened.
Putting things right
Im sorry Mr P and Miss W feel my findings were based on hypothetical scenarios rather 
than the facts of their complaint. And I understand that Mr P and Miss W may have a 
different opinion about what would have happened if Accord hadnt made a mistake. But I 
must make a decision about what is most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
that is available to me.
Id like to assure Mr P and Miss W that I have carefully considered everything theyve said 
and provided. Theres no doubt Accords error has had substantial consequences for them, 
and I know that the situation continues to be very stressful. But I dont think I can safely 
conclude that Accords error led directly to all the losses theyve set out. I do think the error 
has caused them significant trouble and upset which is why Ive concluded that the offer 
Accords made to pay £3,000 towards Mr Ps solicitors fees plus an additional £1,500 is 
reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Accord Mortgages Limited should pay £4,500 to Mr P and Miss W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman