DRN-3152463
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund a disputed transaction carried out on his
account. And theyve loaded a negative marker against him on the National Fraud Database
which hed like removed.
What happened
On the 23 June 2019 a transfer of £250 was carried out via Mr Ds mobile banking to a new
payee.
On the 24 June 2019 Mr D phoned TSB to advise that hed logged onto his online banking,
via a new mobile device, and noticed all the money in his account had been transferred out
without his consent.
Mr D explained that hed lost his mobile phone a few days earlier  but hadnt thought to let
his phone provider or bank know. On his phone hed stored his internet banking details
which must be how the fraudster obtained access to his online banking.
TSB looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it  they concluded that Mr D most likely
authorised the disputed transaction. In summary they said:
The disputed payment was carried out using Mr Ds trusted device
Mr Ds phone couldnt have been lost as it was used to log in after the disputed 
transaction
TSB also closed Mr Ds account and loaded a negative marker against him on the National
Fraud Database.
Mr D didnt accept TSBs conclusion so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint but thought that Mr D most likely
authorised the disputed transactions. They explained that Mr D had used the same device to
log in, on the day he phoned TSB. Therefore they couldnt understand how Mr Ds phone
had been lost.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators conclusion and so the case was passed to me to 
decide. On looking at Mr Ds case I came to the same conclusion as out investigator but I 
expanded on the reasoning. 
I issued a provisional decision to both Mr D and TSB on the 16 October 2021 and asked for 
any further comments by the 30 October 2021. Neither party replied to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. And Ill 
explain why below. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in doing so Ive reached a similar
conclusion to our investigator however Ive expanded my reasoning.
Generally, TSB can hold Mr D liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ds genuine online banking details
were used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case,
Payment Service Regulations 2017, say that is not, on its own, enough to enable TSB to
hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more
likely than not that Mr D consented to the transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that Mr D authorised
the transaction. This is because:
The disputed transaction was carried out using Mr Ds trusted mobile device. Mr D 
explained that he lost his phone a few days earlier whilst at work on a construction 
site. He thought that it was lost in a hole which was filled over so didnt tell his 
mobile phone provider or bank. Mr Ds also explained that hed stored his internet 
banking details on his mobile phone. I find it surprising, considering the details 
stored, that Mr D didnt report the loss of his phone to either his mobile phone 
provider or bank.
For a fraudster to access Mr Ds mobile phone theyd need to get past his security. 
Mr Ds been inconsistent in advising whether or not his phone was passcode 
protected initially informing the bank it wasnt before correcting himself then later 
advising our service that he didnt have any security measures in place.
Immediately prior to the disputed transaction a payment of £140 came into Mr Ds 
account. This moved Mr Ds balance to just over £300. I think its likely that whoever 
carried out the £250 transaction was aware of this payment into Mr Ds account.
Mr D phoned TSB on the 24 June 2019 to report the disputed transaction. Ive 
listened to the phone call during which Mr D explains he noticed the disputed 
transaction when logging in using a new device. However, from checking TSBs 
internet banking records I cant see any evidence of any mobile or online banking log 
ins on this date. And a new device wasnt used until the 2 July 2019.
During the phone call on the 24 June 2019 Mr D was offered the opportunity for his 
online banking details to be reset  but he explained hed phoned his mobile phone 
provider to block his mobile phone. Having looked at the online banking information 
provided by TSB I can see that there are mobile banking log ins, using Mr Ds trusted 
device, between the 25 June 2019 and the 2 July 2019.After the disputed transaction was made Mr D still had an available balance of just 
over £85. I find it surprising that a fraudster whod made the effort to access Mr Ds 
mobile banking wouldnt transfer out all of his funds. 
From what Ive seen so far I think, on balance, that Mr D authorised the disputed transaction.
It follows that TSB is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Fraud Marker
The marker that TSB have filed on the National Fraud database records that theres been a
misuse of facility  in Mr Ds case this is reporting a false disputed transaction claim. The
bank doesnt need to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Ds attempted to commit fraud
but they need to show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The
relevant guidance says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
In practice what this means is TSB need to have evidence that Mr D has been deliberately
dishonest in claiming that a transaction was carried out on his account without his consent.
Ive already considered whether I think on balance Mr D should be held liable for the
disputed transaction. And Im satisfied he should. However, the bar for loading a negative
fraud marker is a high one, and as explained above TSB need to have clear, relevant and
rigorous evidence. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr D, but for the reasons Ive already
explained Im satisfied that Mr Ds account doesnt fit with the evidence Ive been presented.
And Im satisfied hes been deliberately dishonest in his claim. It follows, I think TSB have
applied the appropriate criteria when loading the marker.
For this reason, Im not currently thinking of asking TSB to remove the fraud marker.
As neither party replied to my provisional decision, I have nothing further to consider and see 
no reason to change the outcome I reached in my decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman