DRN-2907615
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) carried out faulty repairs
following a claim that he made on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr Ss car was involved in a non-fault accident with another car, causing
damage to the front and drivers side of his car. Mr S made a claim on his insurance policy
for the damage. Tesco appointed its approved network repairers to fix the damage.
Following the repairs, Mr S contacted the repairer to report water ingress into the car around
the drivers side footwell. The network repairer investigated the issue and considered that it
was unrelated to the repairs theyd carried out. Their findings were that the cars drain
system was blocked and clogged, resulting in water getting into the car.
Mr S complained to Tesco and Tesco rejected his complaint. It recommended however that
Mr S obtain an independent report from a main dealer to see if the further damage was
related to the accident and if so, it would reopen the investigation.
Mr S took the car to his own garage and had the blockage cleared, but there was still water
coming in around the foot pedals. The garage produced a report and invoice which stated
that the water ingress was due to a car part which was missing following the accident and
repairs by Tescos approved network repairer.
Tesco maintained its position not to uphold the complaint however as it didnt think the
damage was linked to the claim. Mr S brought his complaint to this
service to investigate.
Our investigator didnt consider that Tesco should cover the costs of the further damage. It
was her view that it wasnt possible to say with certainty what caused the damage. She
considered that it was unlikely that the additional damage to Mr Ss car was related to the
repairs that were carried out by Tescos appointed garage due to the passage of time. She
also noted that the repair assessment showed that the repairer didnt remove any
components or carry out any work in the bulkhead area behind the engine.
Mr S was unhappy with the conclusion of the investigation and the matter was referred to me 
in my role as ombudsman.
In May 2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I intended 
to uphold Mr Ss complaint as follows; - 
My provisional decision is that I cannot say that Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably. On
the balance of probabilities, the water ingress was related to the accident or to the initial
repairs carried out by Tescos approved network repairers. I dont consider that it was fair
and reasonable for Tesco to reject Mr Ss claim for the cost of further damage to his car
based on the evidence which is available to me. Ill explain why.
The initial repairs were carried out by the appointed repairer in November 2019. I accept Mr
Ss time-line evidence that from December 2019 to March 2020, he noticed a wet floor mat
and ingress of water on the drivers side of the car. This hadnt happened before the crash
and initial repair.
From March to June 2020, Mr S noticed the mat was still getting wet, and it was now
happening in the rear foot well too. After a particularly heavy downpour, the floor mats were
dripping with water and when Mr S took them out, there was a visible puddle of water on the
carpet by the accelerator and the car was starting to smell.
Mr S took the car back to the network repairers at the end of June 2020. They said that
water leaks were quite common, and the drains were likely to be blocked. They offered to
rectify this at a cost as they didnt feel it was related to the crash. They suggested using a
local garage to carry out the work and Mr S took this advice.
Tesco summed up its position as follows;
The network repairer contacted us to advise that your vehicle had been returned to them to
investigate the issue and it was found to be an unrelated to the repairs.
Their findings were, that your drain system was blocked and clogged up! This was resulting
in water getting into the vehicle.
I understand that you have taken your vehicle to your own repairer and had the blockage
cleared.
You then have advised that there is still water coming in around the foot pedals.
The network repairer is satisfied, that after checking the repairs, that the issues were not
related to anything that they had repaired.
In July 2020, Mr Ss garage then unblocked the drains and took out some debris and said
that the drains were quite wide, and water was draining through them well despite there
being debris present. The following day Mr S noted that water continued to come in. The
garage eventually found the source of the water leak which was via a wiring inlet. It was the
opinion of the garage that the rubber seal may have been damaged. It had a mechanics
yellow mark on it, indicating it had been moved at some point, although they could not be
sure it was during the initial repairs. Silicone was added to the wiring inlet to help make it
watertight.
After discussing the matter with the garage, Mr S carried out further research and it came to
light that there may have been a part missing.
Mr S contacted the main dealer for the make of car which confirmed that there should have
been a water drain above the wiring inlet, preventing water getting into it. Mr S called the car
manufacturers parts department and sent them a picture of the site of water ingress. They
sent an image, also indicating that a part was missing. Mr S collected the part from the main
dealer and fitted it himself. Mr S supplied a photograph to this service which shows that the
part is fitted next to the fixings for the bonnet, which was replaced after the crash. Mr S
states that the carpets have been dry since, despite very heavy rainfall.
The final report from Mr Ss garage as to work and repairs invoice stated that; the ingress
was coming from the main wiring loom rubber as water cascaded from the windscreen, into
a small drain between inner and outer skin on the bulkhead and then into the rubber. The
rubber appeared weakened on the inner seal which was the cause of the water ingress.
Silicone used to block and seal the water ingress. Tested and water ingress had stopped.OF NOTE  On the [make and model of car] they have clip on plastic drain channels that
would negate water entering the vehicle at this point. It is my belief that the item was omitted
following repairs by the accident repair garage, therefore causing the significant damage to
Mr Ss vehicle.
Ive studied the detailed evidence, including photographs, list of works carried out by the
network garage and the report and invoice from Mr Ss garage. Ive also noted that the
damage to Mr Ss vehicle included damage to the front drivers side and the repair entailed
replacing the car bonnet.
Mr S was frank in stating that the damage to the rubber seal around the wiring inlet may not
necessarily have occurred during the first repair. Its accepted that blocked drains can be a
common problem and can cause water ingress. Its also noted that Mr S didnt receive an
independent report from a main dealer as recommended by Tesco.
Ive concluded on a preliminary basis however, that its more likely than not that the water
ingress was due to the plastic drain channel being missing and due to damage to the rubber
seal around the wiring inlet. Its also more likely than not that this part had been present
before the accident and repairs, but not afterwards.
On the balance of probabilities, I consider that the part was missing, as confirmed by the
main dealer and manufacturer. On the balance of probabilities, the rubber seal was also
probably damaged as a result of the accident itself or when the bonnet was removed during
initial repairs, in view of its proximity to the bonnet fixings, or following water ingress in the
absence of the missing part.
This conclusion is supported by the fact that drain blockage was discounted in the
investigations carried out by Mr Ss garage. This is because the problem still existed on the
day following clearance of the drains.
Its unlikely to be mere coincidence therefore that water ingress arose soon after the
accident and initial repair. Mr S has owned the car for some years and had not experienced
water ingress before the accident and initial repair, or since the final repair in July 2020. I
conclude that it was more probable than not that the problem was directly connected to the
accident or the repair.
Unless I receive compelling evidence to convince me otherwise, I intend to uphold Mr Ss
complaint and to require Tesco to reimburse Mr S for the additional garage work he had to
pay for to undertake to trace and resolve the problem and the part which he paid for,
(£945.00 + £6.05), together with compensation to recognise the time spent and trouble he
experienced in resolving the further damage, including being without a car for three weeks.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Tesco and Mr S if they had any further comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has accepted my provisional decision and Tesco has provided no further comment. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint for the reasons given above and I therefore require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to:
- Pay Mr S £951.05 within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision.
- To pay compensation to Mr S in the sum of £250 for the extra time, trouble and
inconvenience caused to Mr S, again within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman