DRN-4231049
The complaint
Mr A and Ms C complain about QIC Europe Ltds handling of their home insurance claim.
Mr A and Ms C are joint policy holders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Ms C, Ill refer mainly to her in my decision.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As QIC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In August 2022, Ms C and Mr A made an escape of water claim under their home insurance 
policy with QIC. A burst valve caused extensive water damage to the ceiling and rooms in 
the downstairs of their house. Ms C and Mr A were away on holiday at the time, so Ms Cs 
mother-in-law dealt with the claims management company QIC instructed to deal with the 
claim.
In November 2022, Ms C raised several concerns with QIC about the handling of the claim. 
She said her mother-in-law, who has mobility issues, had to move furniture and items from 
the ground floor to the first floor when QICs agents were first on the premises. There was 
poor communication and a number of missed appointments which meant Ms Cs mother-in-
law was left waiting for hours in the property with no one attending.
Ms C said there was a lack of support with accommodation. Ms C and her family spent two 
weeks staying with relatives before booking alternative accommodation herself and 
submitting the invoice in the hope it would be paid. There was also an issue with QIC 
approving payment for a second rental property. QIC had failed to disclose the surveyors 
report, which meant they didnt know how long to book alternative accommodation for. 
Ms C said there had been an unreasonable delay in removing plaster from a wall, which 
delayed it drying and repair work commencing. She also raised concerns about incorrect and 
inconsistent information about testing of appliances. And she said there was further damage 
to contents because QICs agents didnt use dust sheets when removing plaster.
QIC apologised for multiple missed appointments by its agents and offered her £100 
compensation for this. It said items on the ground floor were cleaned a couple of weeks after 
Ms C raised her complaint and there were no further damaged items. The alternative 
accommodation had been extended as it was still waiting for the contractor to confirm the 
start date. 
Ms C didnt think QIC had fully addressed the issues shed raised, and its offer of 
compensation was too low. So, she asked our service to consider her concerns.
Our investigator felt QICs handling of the claim could have been better. She recommended 
it pay Ms C another £250 in addition to the £100 it had already offered. She also made some 
recommendations about dealing with electrical items and alternative accommodation and 
providing the scope of works to Ms C and Mr A.
QIC agreed with our investigators outcome and recommendation of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. It said it was already doing and would continue to do the other 
actions our investigator had recommended. 
Ms C didnt accept our investigators outcome and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She made some further comments regarding QIC delaying paying for 
alternative accommodation and the impact this was having on the familys finances. She said 
a few hundred pounds compensation didnt reflect the distress caused. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
To be clear, Ive only considered events complained of that occurred prior to QICs response 
to Ms Cs complaint on 1 January 2023. Im aware that Ms C has raised concerns about 
events that have occurred after that date. If she would like our service to consider these, she 
would need to bring them to us as a separate complaint.
Ive considered everything Ms C has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of her complaint. I wish to reassure Ms C Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
Some of the concerns Ms C raised in the complaint she brought to our service were to do 
with the impact of QICs actions on her mother-in-law. Ms Cs mother-in-law isnt a policy 
holder or beneficiary of Ms Cs insurance policy, so she isnt an eligible complainant 
according to the rules our service is required to follow. So, I havent been able to consider 
any distress or inconvenience Ms Cs mother-in-law might have experienced.
Alternative accommodation
The policy terms say:
We will pay up to £100,000 for:
a. the reasonable and necessary costs for alternative accommodation for you and your 
family; and
b. any rent which you may have to pay;
If you cannot stay in your home because your home has become unfit for living in following 
loss or damage that is insured by this section.
How much we will pay for alternative accommodation will depend on your familys needs and 
you must agree the costs with us before you pay.
Ms C has complained about a lack of support with arranging alternative accommodation as 
well as delays in reimbursing her for costs.QIC says it doesnt believe there were any delays in arranging alternative accommodation as 
the claim needed to be validated first. 
I can see that QICs case handler emailed Ms C a couple of days before she and her family 
returned from holiday and asked her to call him to discuss next steps and alternative 
accommodation. When Ms C returned to the UK on the Saturday, she raised concerns that 
she wasnt able to speak to anyone about accommodation until the Wednesday. A few days 
later she told QIC shed booked accommodation and was advised to upload the receipt for 
review.
I dont have detailed notes to tell me what Ms C might have been told on the day she 
returned to the UK. However, QIC had attempted to contact Ms C about alternative 
accommodation prior to her returning home and appears to have approved the 
accommodation she found a few days later. So, Im not persuaded that QIC did anything 
wrong here.
However, I can see from QICs contact history that Ms C needed to contact it several times 
about approving further accommodation. Ms C was concerned that she might not be able to 
find somewhere else if accommodation wasnt approved. This was particularly distressing as 
she needed to consider the needs of her young child.
Ms C also had to chase QIC several times to reimburse her for rental fees. Shes told us that 
theyve needed to use savings which were set aside for something else. 
As explained, in this decision I can only consider the events that occurred prior to 1 January 
2023. So, Ive considered the impact of issues with communication regarding the alternative 
accommodation and delays in reimbursing fees up to that date as part of an award for 
distress and inconvenience.
Drying of wall
Ms C says there was an unreasonable delay in removing plaster from an internal wall which 
delayed drying of the property and commencement of repairs. She says she obtained an 
independent survey which confirmed the plaster should have been removed straight away.
QIC says the internal wall (between the kitchen and living room) was originally an external 
wall. High salt levels were present in the wall indicating external moisture, which in turn 
indicated some potential damp issues. It says this would have caused the wall to dry at a 
slightly slower rate, but it doesnt feel responsible for this as there was an underlying issue. 
I can see that QIC carried out an initial visit a few days after the incident (in August 2022) 
and recorded a moisture reading of 36% on the wall. When it visited again around five weeks 
later, the moisture readings had increased significantly and QIC noted that a salt test was 
required for the wall. 
QICs visit report from October 2022, has an action to remove plaster. From what I can see, 
the plaster was removed a few weeks later. And the report from November 2022 shows 
moisture readings on the wall that are lower than those recorded in August 2022. 
The surveyor instructed by Ms C inspected the property in February 2023 and noted:
The wall between the kitchen and the living room which has now been exposed to the 
original brick is still wet and high moisture meter readings were obtained to all sections of 
both sides of the wall. If the original plastered surface of the wall had been removed sooner then that would have sped up the drying process. The wall will clearly need to be completely 
dry before any further works are commenced. 
However, Ms Cs surveyor also noted signs of rising damp. QICs report dated February 
2023 shows the moisture readings had increased from what they were in November 2022. 
And its report dated March 2023, refers to pre-existing salts present in the wall.
I appreciate Ms C believes QIC should have arranged for the plaster to be removed straight 
away. However, Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for QIC to have left the plaster 
on the wall initially. There does appear to have been a short delay in removing it once it had 
made the decision to do so. However, its difficult to determine how much that might have 
delayed the commencement of repairs, particularly as the information suggests a fluctuation 
in moisture levels due to a pre-existing condition.
Damage to appliances
Ms C says QIC should replace all of the kitchen appliances as they were brand new and 
arent fine to use. 
The contents section of the policys terms and conditions says:
We can choose to settle your claim by:
a. repairing or reinstating the item; or
b. replacing the item as new; or
c. paying you the cash equivalent.
Where possible, we will repair your item
I appreciate Ms Cs surveyor recommended appliances be replaced. However, he hasnt 
said specifically why. I dont think its unreasonable for QIC to repair the items, rather than 
replace them if its able to, given what it says in the terms and conditions.
The information from QIC shows PAT tests were carried out on various appliances (aside 
from the cooker) in October 2022 and they all passed. However, I understand items were 
affected by dust because they werent covered when the plaster was taken off the wall. QIC 
said it had arranged for the items to be cleaned. But Ms C told us her tumble dryer wasnt 
working and the toaster was full of dust and debris so couldnt be used. 
QIC has agreed to our investigators recommendation that it re-PAT test items to make sure 
the removal of plaster didnt cause further damage and ensure all items are clean enough to 
be used. So, I think it should arrange for the further PAT testing and cleaning if it hasnt 
already done so. If the items are not working or in a usable condition after this, QIC should 
either repair, replace them or pay Mr A and Ms C a cash settlement in line with the policys 
terms and conditions.
Scope of works
Ms C has also complained that QIC didnt provide her with a report so she could see what 
work was to be undertaken. QIC accepted our investigators recommendation to provide the 
scope to Ms C and Mr A as soon as possible. So, it should provide this to them if it hasnt 
already done so.
In conclusionI understand that this has been a very distressing time for Ms C and her family who have 
needed to move out of their home for a long period of time. I think QICs communication with 
Ms C could have been better on occasion. She appears to have been caused some 
avoidable frustration and inconvenience as shes needed to chase for approval of 
accommodation and reimbursement of costs. 
There also appears to have been a short delay in removing plaster from the wall after QIC 
decided to do this. Im unable to tell how much this might have delayed drying being 
completed, if at all. However, I think the delay is likely to have added to Ms Cs frustration.
It was also upsetting for Ms C when QIC didnt initially agree to re-PAT test the appliances. 
When she asked for an ombudsmans decision, Ms C said she hadnt received payment for 
rent paid in April and June 2023. However, as explained, this isnt something Im able to 
consider as part of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the impact of issues relating to QICs handling of the claim up 
until 1 January 2023 on Ms C and Mr A. And I think a total of £350 is reasonable 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This amount includes the £100 QIC offered 
Ms C on 1 January 2023.
Putting things right
QIC should:
Pay Mr A and Ms C £350 for distress and inconvenience.
PAT test the electrical items to make sure the removal of plaster didnt cause further 
damage, if it hasnt already done so. If items fail the PAT test, QIC will need to take 
further action to settle this part of the claim in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
Ensure all items are clean enough to be used  this could be by arranging cleaning, 
replacing items or cash settlement in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Provide the scope of work to Mr A and Ms C, if it has not already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr A and Ms Cs complaint and direct QIC Europe 
Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023. 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman