DRN-4141227
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded her after she told it shed been the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mrs P engaged the services of a travel agent, whom Ill refer to as Mr S. Shed received a 
recommendation for Mr S services, with friends having had good experiences in the past.
Mrs P was arranging a group booking of flights. The details were all agreed, and Mrs P 
made a payment of £1,490 to Mr S on 2 October 2019 for flights for her and her son. The 
flights were booked for July 2020.
Mrs P made a separate flight booking through Mr S in November 2019.
Mrs P couldnt take the trips because of the global pandemic. She remained in touch with 
Mr S about booking other trips and making alternative arrangements. As time went on, she 
received a refund of the money shed sent in November. But when she tried to use the credit 
from the earlier booking, or tried to get it refunded by Mr S, the money wasnt forthcoming.
The contact between Mrs P and Mr S continued for many months, with the last contact from 
Mr S coming in August 2022. After that Mrs P heard nothing more from him and she still 
hadnt had her money back. So she contacted Santander to report shed been the victim of a 
scam.
Santander considered what Mrs P had said but didnt refund her loss. It felt that Mrs P had a 
civil dispute with Mr S, rather than it being a case of her being victim to a scam. Mrs P 
disagreed and brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and ultimately agreed with 
Santander. And so she found it had acted fairly and reasonably in not refunding Mrs P. 
Mrs P was dissatisfied with that answer and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P further, but Im reaching the same outcome as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. In doing so Ill not refer to every detail of 
whats happened, instead covering the key points that have influenced my decision. But I 
have considered everything that Mrs P and Santander have said.
The starting point at law is that a customer is deemed responsible for payments made from 
their account that are properly authorised in line with the terms and conditions of their 
account and in accordance with the Payment Service Regulations 2017. Theres no dispute 
as to whether Mrs P authorised the payment to Mr S.
There are times when a bank might be responsible for refunding authorised payments, 
including when money is lost to a scam. Santander is a signatory to the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which, broadly speaking, looks to 
see the victims of scams reimbursed. But, for the reimbursement provisions of the Code to 
apply, a claim must first be in scope of the Code. And it specifically talks about civil disputes 
being outside of that scope. And so its necessary for me to consider whether Mrs P has 
fallen victim to a scam, or whether she has a civil dispute with Mr S.    
I can understand why Mrs P feels shes been the victim of a scam. She has paid for a 
service that she hasnt received. Shes unsure of what has happened to Mr S or her money 
and Im sure she feels very much like shes been robbed. But Im not persuaded Mr S set out 
to deceive and steal from Mrs P. Instead, Im satisfied this is a civil matter between the two 
parties, where an otherwise legitimate supplier has failed to deliver what was paid for.
Ive seen evidence, including bank account statements, which support that Mr S was 
legitimately providing a service at the time Mrs P made the payment to him. That evidence 
also supports that he continued to provide those services long after the payment was made. 
And so it appears Mr S was continuing to operate legitimately, even if he might have been 
failing to fulfil his contractual obligations.
The evidence also shows that Mrs P (and other people) were in contact with Mr S long after 
the disputed payment. Mrs P herself made further payments to him which were legitimately 
used to make flight bookings. And when those were cancelled Mrs P got her money back. 
These arent the actions of a scammer. I can see no reason why Mr S would have continued 
to speak with Mrs P, even less so return money to her, if his intent had always been to scam 
and deceive her.
Mrs P has explained that she knows others from her group have received refunds from their 
banks. I cant say why those people might have received those refunds. I must assess 
Mrs Ps complaint on its own merits and in consideration of the evidence I have before me. 
That others might have had money back doesnt lead me to a point where I can say Mrs P 
has been deliberately scammed by Mr S, and that that was his intention from the point at 
which she paid him. 
I cant tell Mrs P exactly whats happened or what Mr S has done with her money. Nor can I 
say why he hasnt returned it to her. Im not saying that Mrs P hasnt lost money here, or that 
Mr S has acted fairly and reasonably. But overall, the evidence persuades me this is a civil 
matter between Mrs P and Mr S. And because of that theres no reason I can fairly and 
reasonably direct Santander to refund Mrs Ps loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman