DRN-2764225
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has withdrawn the debit card facility from 
his savings account. 
What happened
HSBC wrote to Mr B in September 2020 giving 60 days notice that he would no longer be 
able to use a debit card on his savings account, and that he would need to use other means 
to access his funds.
Mr B was unhappy with this and complained to HSBC. HSBC said that this was a policy 
change, and that it applied to all customers. It said it had given advance notice of the change 
and went on to explain the reasons behind the change.
 
Mr B wasnt happy with this and brought his case to our service.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. He could see that HSBC had 
given Mr B notice of the change in line with its terms and conditions and had explained the 
ways that he could withdraw money. Although HSBC couldnt provide the original account 
terms from when Mr B opened his account some 20 years ago, our investigator was satisfied 
that HSBC was entitled to make the change and had acted fairly. She didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B is unhappy to lose the convenience of a debit card on his 
account, but I am satisfied that this is a change that HSBC was entitled to make.
When Mr B opened his account, he would have accepted the relevant terms and conditions. 
While HSBC is unable to provide the terms from this time, as the account doesnt have a 
fixed end date, I am satisfied that its more likely than not that HSBCs terms would have 
provided for changes to be made from time to time. 
I have reviewed HSBCs terms at the time that it gave notice to Mr B, and can see that 
Section 18 Changes we can make explains that as the agreement has no end date, HSBC 
may sometimes need to make changes. HSBC has explained that it removed the debit card 
facility because it resulted in customers going overdrawn in breach of the account terms, and 
also presented a fraud risk. I can see that Mr B was concerned that the change was 
personal to him because he didnt use his account very much, but HSBC explained that this 
was not the reason for the change. It was a change that applied to all customers with the 
same savings account, and as such it was treating Mr B in the same way as its other 
customers.  In the light of all of this, I am satisfied that HSBC was entitled to change its 
terms to remove the debit card facility and acted fairly in doing so
I am also satisfied that HSBC followed the process set out in its terms and conditions. I have 
seen information provided by HSBC to show that it gave Mr B 60 days notice in early 
September 2020, and then sent a reminder in early November2020, with the change 
becoming effective in mid-November 2020. These communications informed him that he 
could close the account if he didnt want to accept the change. They explained the other 
available ways to access funds from the savings account and said that debit cards were still 
available on current accounts. In the light of this, I think HSBC has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way that it communicated the change that it was entitled to make. 
I appreciate that Mr B would like HSBC to offer the debit card with his savings account 
however it is not this services role to tell a financial business which product features to offer, 
and HSBC was entitled to make a business decision and change the facilities it offered on its 
savings accounts. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this, but I cant see that HSBC has done anything 
wrong here, and I will not be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman