DRN-4172694
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc made 
errors that prevented the company benefiting from the Recovery Loan Scheme (RLS).
What happened
In 2021, there were discussions between D and RBS about possible lending under the RLS, 
which is a government-backed scheme designed to support access to finance for UK 
businesses as they look to invest and grow.
In December 2021, RBS told D that it couldnt take the loan application any further because 
of a County Court Judgement (CCJ) registered against the company. D found that the CCJ 
had been registered in error and took action to have it removed from the record.
D then re-engaged with the bank but things went wrong during the discussions that followed. 
Communication problems meant that D missed a deadline for the loan application.
D complained to RBS, saying the company had suffered losses because of these events. In 
response, the bank said that early in 2022, when a staff member had moved on, the matter 
hadnt been picked up by colleagues. The bank said that, had things worked as they should 
have, D would have been told sooner that the lending may not have been an option. RBS 
acknowledged that this had been frustrating and annoying for D. It apologised and paid D a 
total of £500. D wasnt satisfied and referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and concluded that RBS didnt need to take any 
further action. He gave these reasons, in summary:
Under the rules of the RLS scheme, lenders were required to undertake their 
standard credit and fraud checks for all applicants. In addition, to be eligible for a 
facility under RLS, a business had to meet certain eligibility criteria, including having 
a borrowing proposal considered viable by the lender and not being a business in 
difficulty.
RBS responded to D in December 2021, saying it couldnt take the RLS application 
any further. It said the bank had identified an active CCJ registered against the 
business on Companies House. RBSs email contained information about other 
options available to D if it wanted to borrow money elsewhere, and said that an 
appeal against the decision could be made within 30 days. The investigator thought 
RBS acted fairly at this stage because, under the scheme rules, it was entitled to 
undertake a credit assessment and it provided D with the main reason for its decision 
to decline, as well as allowing an appeal.
D took action to remove the CCJ, then re-engaged with RBS. It isnt entirely clear 
what happened next, but on the evidence available, the investigator thought RBS 
didnt act correctly and should have been clearer with D about the progress of the 
application. This caused inconvenience to D, for which the bank has paid £500 
compensation. But on the balance of probability, the investigator thought it likely that 
the RLS application would have been declined anyway. Having reviewed Ds 
statements for its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and its current account, the investigator 
could see unpaid items and overdraft use at the time, and RBS soon moved the 
companys accounts to its Specialised Business Management Team.
The banks December 2021 email made it clear that other options were available, so 
D had the opportunity to pursue an application with another provider before the end 
of the deadline. The investigator therefore didnt think RBS prevented D from 
accessing the RLS.
In the circumstances, the investigator thought the £500 already paid by the bank was 
fair and sufficient compensation for the inconvenience caused to D.
D doesnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Its director has made the following 
points, in summary:
D didnt make an RLS application. RBS originally advised that it was unable to 
support the company in its application, and when the CCJ was removed, the 
application process restarted but RBS lost track of it.
D was solvent, with cash reserves. The subsequent damage to its credit history was 
a consequence of the 20 weeks having to self-fund. 
Ds transfer to the Specialised Business Management Team was caused by an 
underlying and ongoing problem of access to Ds accounts.
The £500 payment isnt enough to cover the losses to D. The directors time lost 
pursuing this matter was an opportunity cost to D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
D has complained to this service about other problems with its RBS accounts, and these are 
being dealt with as separate complaints. My decision here is solely about the problems with 
the RLS application.
Ds director says that the companys approach to RBS in 2021 wasnt a formal application 
under the RLS. But I dont think the formal status of Ds approach to RBS makes any 
difference to my decision. Its common ground that the parties were in discussion about RLS 
lending, and that in December 2021 the bank told D that it wouldnt be able to take Ds 
application any further because of the CCJ.
RBS has acknowledged that when the process recommenced in 2022, things went wrong at 
the bank, and it didnt communicate properly with D. The bank has apologised for this and 
paid £500. 
I agree with the investigator that an application to RBS under the RLS in 2022 would have 
been unlikely to succeed. Im satisfied that, from RBSs viewpoint, Ds accounts would have indicated that the company was having difficulties. D was soon transferred to the banks 
Specialised Business Management Team because of arrears on its BBL repayments. 
Ds director has argued that he had reserves and that Ds financial problems arose only 
because it had to self-fund for 20 weeks. But I think the bank, mindful of Ds BBL repayment 
difficulties and the overdraft position on Ds current account, wouldnt have been likely to 
regard D as meeting its lending criteria, irrespective of the availability of a cash injection from 
its director. For these reasons, I dont think RBSs communication failures led to D losing a 
loan facility from RBS.
I also agree with the investigator that RBS had already given D details of other possible 
sources of lending, in December 2021, when it first declined the lending. So I dont think 
RBS prevented or delayed D from pursuing lending elsewhere.
Ive thought carefully about the level of compensation due for the inconvenience caused by 
RBS. I can understand that Ds director would himself have suffered personal 
inconvenience, but in this decision I can consider only the inconvenience suffered by D as a 
company. Im not persuaded that the evidence shows that D suffered significant losses 
resulting from opportunity costs of its directors time spent on these events. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think £500 was enough to compensate D for the 
companys inconvenience regarding the RLS application.
For the above reasons, I think RBS has already done enough to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman