DRN-4297858
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Co-op Funeral Plans Limited sent plan documentation to her address 
when it should have been sent to her attorneys. Mrs M is represented by her daughter and 
attorney, Mrs F.
What happened
Mrs M lives in a care home. She has dementia and lacks capacity. Mrs F has a lasting power 
of attorney for Mrs M, so is legally entitled to act on her behalf in respect of financial matters.
In summary, in September 2022, Mrs F approached Co-op to set up a funeral plan for Mrs 
M. She subsequently attended an appointment at a Co-op Funeralcare home. She explained 
Mrs Ms circumstances to Co-ops representative and provided documentation confirming 
her identity and the lasting power of attorney.
Its clear there were some difficulties entering both Mrs Ms and Mrs Fs information and 
details onto Co-ops computer system. And there were issues uploading Mrs Fs ID and legal 
documents, with advice needing to be sought from other colleagues. But Mrs F was able to 
pay in full for a simple cremation plan, using her attorneys bank card, with the money 
debiting from the account the following day. Mrs F says she was assured the plan certificate 
and paperwork would be with her in two to three weeks.
In short, this didnt happen, because documentation was sent to Mrs M instead. That 
documentation has never come to light. Mrs F thinks it was likely lost or thrown away by Mrs 
M at the care home where she lives.
Mrs F subsequently complained. But Co-op didnt uphold the complaint, saying that 
documents had to be sent to the plan holder  Mrs M  under Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) guidelines.
Mrs F remained unhappy so came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In response to our 
request for information, Co-op revised its position. It said Mrs F, as attorney, could change 
the address on the plan and receive documents. It proposed honouring her request to 
receive documentation and also offered £50 by way of apology for misleading information.
Our investigator conveyed Co-ops comments to Mrs F. But Mrs F had lost faith in Co-op, 
having informed them in January 2023 that she no longer wanted the plan and would like a 
full refund. She reiterated this to our investigator, who then looked into things for her. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Co-ops revised acceptance that Mrs F could 
receive paperwork wasnt a satisfactory resolution to the complaint. She said Co-op had 
missed early opportunities to resolve matters and it was understandable that Mrs F had lost 
faith and no longer wished to deal with Co-op. She recommended that Co-op cancel Mrs Ms 
plan and refund the full amount paid, without any cancellation fee.
Co-op didnt accept our investigators view. It said it had followed the correct process at the 
time. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So the case has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, for clarity, Ill reiterate what our investigator has explained to Mrs F regarding 
compensation. I dont doubt this experience has been stressful and upsetting for her. But our 
rules only allow us to award compensation to eligible complainants themselves  thats Mrs 
M, in this case - not their representatives or family members. So whilst I acknowledge Co-
ops offer to Mrs F of £50 compensation for misleading information, I cant comment on it any 
further.
Ill turn now to the substantive complaint. Co-op initially said its reason for not sending the 
plan documents to Mrs F was that it was unable to set up a funeral plan without the 
understanding of the plan holder, hence why the plan details were sent to Mrs Ms address. 
It referred to guidelines from the FCA, although no specific guideline was referenced.
FCA rules require the provision of appropriate information about a funeral plan contract in 
good time before the conclusion of the contract (FPCOB 9.2.1R in the FCA Handbook - 
Business Standards, FPCOB Funeral Plan: Conduct of Business sourcebook, available 
online).
Co-op met with Mrs F, discussed requirements and accepted payment in full for a funeral 
plan for Mrs M. So I conclude that Mrs Fs legal authority as attorney  entitling her to act in 
Mrs Ms stead  must have been accepted in the initial sales meeting. Given this, and Mrs 
Fs explanation to Co-op that Mrs M had dementia and lacked capacity, I think it would have 
been reasonable to send documents to Mrs F directly, as she requested.
Co-op also provided an internal email chain which didnt reference any regulation or indicate 
whether there had been a change in approach. What it did suggest was that its quality 
assurance processes had identified some confusion and misunderstanding amongst staff 
regarding dealing with customers who have appointed an attorney. So on balance, I think 
confusion regarding internal processes more likely led to the difficulties Mrs F experienced. 
Indeed, Co-op has acknowledged that Mrs F was given some misleading information.
To my mind, Co-op had opportunity to sort things out when Mrs F first complained. Had it 
done so, faith may have been restored. Unfortunately, this didnt happen and Mrs F lost trust 
in Co-op to care for Mrs M at the time of need and deal sensitively with her relatives. Mrs F 
wrote to Co-op in January 2023 requesting cancellation of the plan:
I hope you will draw a line under this upsetting experience, null and void the funeral 
plan and refund the money in full to the original POA bank account.
Ive not seen any evidence that this request was picked up on and responded to.
If all had gone right, Mrs F would have received plan documents and likely been satisfied in 
her dealings with Co-op on Mrs Ms behalf. Unfortunately, the misinformation and failure to 
get things back on track led to a breakdown in the relationship. Mrs F wants a full refund for the plan. In light of Co-ops errors, I think a fair outcome is for that refund to be made without 
the usual cancellation fee.
Putting things right
To put things right Co-op should:
Cancel Mrs Ms funeral plan and refund the full amount paid. No cancellation fee or 
any other administrative charge should be made.
In line with our usual approach, set out on our website, Co-op should add to the 
refund 8% per annum simple interest, from 1 February 2023 until the date the refund 
is paid. Ive determined this as a fair date for interest to be paid from, as it allows 
some time for Co-op to act on and process Mrs Fs request to cancel the plan  set 
out in her letter dated 17 January 2023.
If Co-op considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman