DRN-3931388
The complaint
Ms C complains British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) wouldnt provide written 
statements of the payments shes made on three HomeCare policies.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Ms C is a landlord and has HomeCare policies for three properties. In October 2022, Ms C 
requested statement/documents from British Gas via online chat so she could complete her 
tax self-assessment. She required documentation to show the exact amount of insurance 
premiums she had paid monthly on each of the properties - covering the tax year April 2021 
to April 2022.  
Initially British Gas said theyd post this to Ms C although she had asked if they could be 
sent via email. But when she didnt receive them Ms C chased the matter and was told they 
were on route to her. But when she chased again, she was told it couldnt provide this 
information. Ms C is unhappy with how British Gas handled her request and wants 
compensation and the statements to be provided.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ms C didnt agree and requested the 
complaint be escalated to an Ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When British Gas sold the policy to Ms C it needed to do so in accordance with the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook. Under these rules the insurer is only obliged to send renewal 
documents each year along with amended documents should a customer change their policy 
mid-year. So, Im not persuaded that sending statements is something British Gas is 
obligated to do and it hasnt therefore, made an error in not providing this information. As 
such, I wont be directing it to do so.
I do appreciate Ms Cs frustration. I can see she used the online chat facility to chase up the 
matter and was told this was being done. But when she called British Gas, it apologised and 
explained that it doesnt send this type of information. I agree British Gas initially mis-
managed Ms Cs expectations, but I have to consider the impact of this and in this case, I 
am not persuaded compensation is warranted. I say this because first, British Gas were 
never required to send the statements and second, this information could be obtained from 
Ms Cs bank statements and the policy documentation that contained the premium 
information provided by British Gas. 
British Gas has apologised for the error  which I would expect it to do so. So overall, I wont 
be asking British Gas to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman