DRN-3040118
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wont open a business account for his 
business, B, because its not based in Scotland.
What happened
Mr B tried to open a business account with RBS. He was turned down after he applied, 
because his business is not based in Scotland. Mr B said that the rest of his banking was 
done with RBS, and it would be very inconvenient to have a business account elsewhere. He 
was also very unhappy with how RBS had handled the application process, and his 
subsequent complaint.
Mr B said, on the complaint form he completed for our service, that he wanted RBS to ask 
him how he wanted his complaint to be resolved. He wanted RBS to show him fairness, 
honesty, decent levels of customer service. He wanted it to have a decent website and 
application process. He wanted it to engage in two way dialogue and provide answers to his 
questions. He said the payment of £100 that RBS had made was an insult.
RBS said that it stood by its decision not to open a business account for Mr B. It had made a 
commercial decision to focus its business banking on businesses based in Scotland, and 
because Mr Bs business wasnt based there, it wouldnt open an account for him. It 
suggested that he could open a business account with a different bank in the same group.
RBS said that it was sorry Mr B had found the application process frustrating, and it paid him 
£100 to say sorry for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that RBS had made a 
commercial decision to restrict its business customer base to those operating in Scotland. 
He thought that RBS had reviewed Mr Bs application, made its decision, and communicated 
it to Mr B, all in a clear and timely manner. He thought that RBS could have been clearer in 
its application process that Mr Bs application would be unlikely to be accepted, but he 
thought that the payment of £100 that RBS had made was suitable in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that he didnt feel that we had listened to him, the customer. He 
was unhappy with the process that our service applies to resolve complaints. He felt that it 
was important that we ask him what he wanted to resolve this complaint, and said he 
couldnt remember being asked that.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons.
RBS has told our service that it was required to reduce its dominance in the business 
banking sector. This was a condition of the government support it received some years ago. 
In order to achieve that, RBS focusses its new business banking on businesses based in 
Scotland. Thats why it didnt accept Mr Bs application. 
I know that Mr B wanted, as part of the resolution of this case, for RBS to discuss this with 
him, and to engage in dialogue. But I dont think that RBS has to do so, in this instance. 
Thats because it has explained its decision, and, given the background to this, it is unlikely 
to change. 
Broadly speaking, banks are able to decide which customers they accept, in the same way 
as customers can choose which bank they ask to provide them with banking services. But in 
this case, there is an underlying reason why RBS has focussed its business in this way, 
which RBS has explained. 
Ive considered that Mr B already has an existing banking relationship with RBS, for his 
personal banking. But I think that RBS has made a legitimate commercial decision in this 
case, and this isnt something our service could fairly and reasonably ask it to change.
I understand that Mr B was frustrated at having gone through the application process without 
being warned that it was unlikely that RBS would open an account for him. And I can see 
that a stronger warning, included as part of the business account application process, may 
well have saved him some time and inconvenience. But our service isnt a regulator, and we 
arent able to instruct RBS to change its application process or amend its website, to help 
other customers in future. All I can do is look at the impact that RBSs actions had in this 
particular case. And I can see that RBS has paid Mr B £100 for this. Although I know that 
isnt what Mr B wanted, I do think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B also wanted to complain that RBS complaint handling process didnt allow him to have 
a prompt discussion over the phone with an RBS agent. He said that RBS failed to make a 
promised callback, and didnt talk to him before it reached its decision on his case. 
Our investigator explained that we arent permitted, under the rules that govern our service, 
to deal with complaints which are solely about how a complaint is handled. Thats because 
complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity, so doesnt fall within our jurisdiction. I 
agree with our investigator that a complaint by Mr B that he didnt receive promised calls, 
unfortunately falls outside of our jurisdiction, so I wont consider that point here.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman