DRN-3880192
The complaint
Miss B complains that an HSBC UK Bank Plc mistake led to her credit card being closed.
What happened
Miss B was living abroad, and, in March 2021, she contacted HSBC as her debit and credit 
cards had expired. 
With regards to Miss Bs debit card, HSBC made a dispatching mistake in March 2021. 
Whilst this mistake is subject to a separate complaint, Miss B says the timing of the mistake 
had an impact on her credit card account. She says this is because it had a significant 
impact on her health and meant she was unable to work.
Miss Bs credit card was reported as lost or stolen and the account disappeared from her 
online banking. Miss B also hadnt received paper statements and she says this, together 
with her health issues, caused her to miss payments.
Miss B contacted HSBC in July 2021 as her credit card had still not arrived. Also, she had 
been informed of missed payments and needed to query why her account still wasnt 
showing on-line. At this time, Miss B was finding it difficult to make payments and, as she 
had fallen into arrears, HSBC completed an income and expenditure review. HSBC were 
unable to agree an arrangement and suggested Miss B speak with their specialist support 
team.
However, Miss B raised a complaint as she didnt think the arrears on the account were her 
fault. This is because of a combination of HSBCs debit card mistake and her inability to view 
her account online.
To help with Miss Bs arrears, HSBC agreed to suppress all interest and charges for 60 days 
and, as she hadnt been able to view her account on-line from April to July 2021, they also 
agreed to amend her credit file. 
In August 2021, HSBC informed Miss B that she wouldnt be receiving a new credit card. 
This was because of the position of her account. HSBC apologised for not having 
communicated this earlier and offered Miss B £50 compensation. HSBC also said that they 
would be closing Miss Bs account and she still needed to pay the arrears of £113.29 and 
the outstanding balance of £711.73. They explained this was because Miss B had missed 20 
of the previous 24 months payments.
Miss B complained to our service. HSBC subsequently increased their compensation from 
£50 to £200 and our investigator thought this was both reasonable and proportionate given 
the circumstances. 
Miss B considers this to be an inadequate amount of compensation and this case has 
therefore been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the view that I agree with the 
investigator. I appreciate Miss B feels strongly that the compensation provided is inadequate 
for the distress and inconvenience caused and will be disappointed by my decision.
There is evidence on file that shows HSBC had legitimate concerns about Miss Bs account 
prior to March 2021 and their subsequent suspension and closure actions were due to a 
significant number of missed payments over a two-year period. They were also in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
Also, for the majority of payments due, HSBC provided Miss B with both written and 
electronic statements and informed her of the missed payments. Also, Miss B had a 
redirection arrangement in place. So, whilst I recognise there were short periods of time 
where there were no statements, I cant hold HSBC responsible for postal issues and 
inconsistent missed payments. And as mentioned above, Miss B missed a number of 
payments which led to the credit card being suspended before the March 2021 debit card 
error. So, Im satisfied that HSBCs suspension, closure, and credit reference agency 
reporting actions were both fair and reasonable.
However, its not in dispute that HSBC made communication errors about Miss Bs card, 
account number and on-line accessibility. It is unfortunate that these communication errors 
coincided with Miss B being unwell and with HSBCs debit card error which has been 
addressed in a separate complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Miss Bs ill-health, need to return to the UK and inability to work. 
However, although I think HSBC shouldve provided better joined up support, there is 
insufficient evidence to show that HSBC are directly responsible for the unfortunate events 
and circumstances Miss B describes in her submissions. So, whilst Im sympathetic to Miss 
Bs situation, I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to pay an additional amount of 
compensation to cover Miss Bs health treatment, loss of earnings, travel costs or 
reputational damage.
I also looked at whether HSBC acted unreasonably when they contacted Miss B about her 
arrears. There were several very long calls in which she was kept on hold and the recording 
confirms a lack of clarity and sensitivity. In one call, insensitive language was used about 
Miss Bs mental health and, whilst it sounded unintentional, I can understand why this upset 
Miss B. However, I couldnt any evidence of HSBC staff harassing Miss B.
Putting things right
I have no doubt that this was an extremely difficult period for Miss B. But considering all of 
the above and information from both sides, I think HSBCs £200 compensation offer is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation for communication errors that caused Miss B 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Miss B £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss B £200, including any amounts it has already paid in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman