DRN-1622385
 
The complaint
Miss Hs complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss H responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Miss H voluntarily terminated her finance agreement with VWFS. It was therefore her 
decision to end the agreement and she was responsible for returning the car in the 
condition required under the terms of her agreement with VWFS and clarified by the 
BVRLA guidelines.
But Miss H didnt have the car at that point, and shed been promised in a phone call 
with the dealership who now had the car, that the damage would be waived if she 
part exchanged it. Her ability to have the car refurbished was therefore hindered by 
the fact VWFSs agents in this transaction still had her vehicle and I think it would be 
fair for VWFS to take that into account when considering what charges to make. Ill 
come back to that later.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage provided in the inspection report 
completed at handover. Im persuaded that all the damage that VWFS are now 
making refurbishment charges for is beyond what would be considered fair wear and 
tear under the BVRLA guidance. For clarity, I would agree that the following charges 
(exclusive of VAT) have been fairly applied:
oright hand front door dent £45
oright hand front door scratch £110.40
othree tyres at £116.63 each
otwo wheels at £309.78 each
otwo wheels at £36 each
Im not persuaded that any of the damage was most likely to have been caused at 
some point after Miss H handed the car back and before the inspection. Miss H had 
the car for several years and I think the damage was therefore more likely to have 
occurred during that time than in the limited period before inspection.
But VWFS should have considered the fact that the dealerships retention of the car 
had impeded Miss Hs opportunity to have it repaired. If shed have had the car in her 
possession, I think its likely she would have been able to get the car repaired at a 
cheaper price as I find her testimony that she has family members in the trade to be 
credible. Whilst some of the refurbishment requires replacement parts other areas 
dont and I think its reasonable to suggest she could have reduced the outstanding 
bill by 50%. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint in part. 
Putting things right
VWFS will need to adjust the final invoice to remove some charges theyve agreed to 
remove since the complaint was referred to this service and then apply a 50% reduction. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to reissue the invoice for refurbishment charges, removing 
charges for the rear bumper, left hand front door chipping and wing moulding scratches. 
They should then apply a 50% discount. The final invoice cost should be £1196.85 plus VAT 
discounted to £598.43 plus VAT.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman