DRN-2707710
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax is reporting incorrect 
information on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss M closed her account with Halifax in 2014. 
Miss M complained to Halifax in 2020. She said Halifax was reporting information about her
closed account to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) and this was showing as adverse
data on her credit file. She didnt think the information being reported was correct and she
explained that it was preventing her from obtaining credit during a difficult period due to the
covid-19 pandemic.
In May 2020, Halifax agreed to remove the information it had recorded on Miss Ms credit file
and it paid her £150 compensation. But Miss M later found that the information had not been
removed. So, she contacted Halifax again.
Halifax responded in June 2020. It apologised that it hadnt previously explained that the
removal of credit file information can take several weeks  up to 6/8 weeks in some
circumstances. It also added due to the wider circumstances at the time  the pandemic, that
this process could take longer as a result. So, it offered a further £50 compensation. Miss M
didnt accept this extra offer and so she referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators began looking into Miss Ms concerns. In response to the
investigators enquiries, Halifax looked into the matter again. It explained that when Miss M
closed the account in 2014 there was an outstanding balance of £25.77 on the account. So,
it said the information recorded on Miss Ms credit file  a missed payment of £26, was an
accurate reflection of the account status. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in this
respect.
But it accepted that it had already offered to remove the information it had recorded and that
this hadnt been done  or at least there had been a delay in this being done. So, it said it
was prepared to offer Miss M a further £200 compensation (in additional to the £150 already
paid) and ensure the remove the credit file information it had recorded on acceptance of the
offer.
The offer was put to Miss M. But she did not feel this recognised the financial impact the
adverse data had had on her. She reiterated that, as a result of the adverse data, she had
found it difficult to obtain credit. And when she had been successful in getting credit, the
interest rate offered was higher than it would have been had Halifax not recorded the
adverse information on her credit file.
Our investigator thought that overall Halifaxs revised offer was fair. He didnt think hed seen
enough evidence to show that Miss M had been financially impacted solely as a result of the
adverse data Halifax had recorded on her credit file.
Miss M didnt accept this outcome, so the complaint was passed to me. By way of a 
provisional decision dated 17 March 2021, I set out the reasons why I intended to uphold 
Miss Ms complaint. The following is an extract from my provision findings set out in the 
provisional decision:
I think the starting point here, and what has not been covered before, is whether Halifax was
reporting incorrect information to the credit reference agencies prior to Miss Ms complaint in
2020.
From what Ive seen, its not in dispute that Miss M closed her account in October 2014. So,
Ive looked at copies of Miss Ms bank statements from that time. And Im satisfied that these
show that in October 2014 the account was overdrawn by £25.77. 
Ive thought about whether Miss M was aware of the outstanding balance. And I think its
most likely that she was. I think its likely that Miss M wouldve received her copy of the
statement of account. But even if Miss M didnt receive the statement, Halifax has provided
evidence to show that it wrote to her to ask her to repay the outstanding balance.
If Miss M wasnt aware of an outstanding balance at this time or disputed the balance, then I
wouldve expected her to have raised this with Halifax sooner than in 2020. But I havent
seen anything to show that she did. So, Im satisfied there was a balance outstanding on the
account which needed to be repaid and that Miss M was aware of it.
But I havent seen anything that would make me think Miss M repaid the outstanding prior to
her complaint to Halifax in 2020. But if Miss M has anything to show the balance had been
repaid sooner than this, then she should provide the information she has, and I will
reconsider the matter again.
But based on what Ive seen and given Im satisfied a balance was outstanding, I dont think
Halifax did anything wrong when it reported the status of the account to the CRAs. Banks
have a duty to report information about the status of accounts in this way. So, if Miss M
applied for credit and was refused or offered credit on less preferential terms up to this point,
I cant say this was a result of anything Halifax did wrong.
Ive then gone on to look at what happened after Miss M complained. CRA data is held on a
credit file for 6 years. As Miss M closed her account in October 2014, the information about
the unpaid balance should have remained on her credit file until October 2020 and updated
as being settled if repaid before this date. But here, Halifax offered to remove it in
May 2020. So, I think Miss M had a right to expect this to be removed in a reasonable
timescale after this date.
But I should explain to Miss M that changes to data on a credit file can take up to two
months to take effect. And, given that at the time this all happened, all businesses including
banks and credit reference agencies, were adapting to new ways of working and reduced
staff availability, I dont think its unreasonable that it might have taken slightly longer for
Miss Ms credit file to be updated. Taking this all into account, I think it would have been
reasonable for Miss Ms credit file to have been updated by September 2020. But Miss M
has provided evidence which indicates that as of January 2021 the amendment still hadnt
been made. And I think that is too much of a delay.
Its not clear what the reason for this delay is. But Halifax has offered Miss M a further £200 in addition to the £150 already paid, in recognition of the delay. And it has confirmed it will
ensure the adverse data is removed. Overall, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances
of the complaint.
I know Miss M believes the adverse data on her credit file has prevented her from obtaining
credit or at least getting credit on more preferential terms. But to uphold this part of Miss Ms
complaint, Id need to be satisfied that any loss was incurred as a sole result of anything
Halifax did wrong.
And as mentioned above, I think the adverse data being recorded reflected the true status of
her account prior to May 2020. And that the amendment of credit file data can take some
months to take effect. I acknowledge the delays in removing the credit file information since
then - but like the investigator, I havent seen enough to make me think that Miss M has
been turned down for credit or has been offered less preferential terms solely as a result of
any delays on Halifaxs part from around September 2020  the point I think its reasonable
that the amendment should have been made.
Halifax replied to say it accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Miss M replied saying she was not satisfied with the provisional decision. In summary she 
said that Halifax repeatedly said the adverse data on her credit file would be removed and it 
hadnt done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im not minded to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision that, having reviewed the statements relating to 
Miss Ms account, I was satisfied there was a balance owing on the account when it was 
closed. As the balance had not been repaid, I didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong 
when it recorded adverse information about the account on Miss Ms credit file. This was a 
true reflection of the status of the account and what a bank is required to report in such 
circumstances. 
But I noted that in resolution of her complaint, Halifax had agreed to remove the adverse 
data from her credit file. And I agreed with Miss M that Halifax had failed to do what it said it 
would in a timely manner. I thought it was reasonable that Halifax should have removed the 
adverse data from Miss Ms credit file by September 2020 at the latest - given the wider 
circumstances at the time. 
But I also noted that Halifax had already told us it was prepared to pay Miss M a further £200 
compensation (thereby making the overall compensation payment £350), in recognition of 
the delay in removing the credit file data. And I think this offer is fair. 
This is because I havent seen enough to make me think that Miss M had been turned down 
for credit or had been offered less preferential terms solely as a result of any delays on 
Halifaxs part from around September 2020  the point I think its reasonable that the 
amendment should have been made. So, while I thought Halifax should remove the adverse 
data like it said it would, I didnt think Halifax was required to pay Miss M anything more than 
it had now offered to pay. 
 
Putting things right To put thing right Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should now:
pay Miss M £200 - in addition to the £150 already paid, and
 
remove any adverse data recorded on her credit file relating to this account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision dated 17 March 2021 (set out 
above), I uphold this complaint and instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to settle 
this complain in line with the instructions set out in the above section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman