DRN-3748206
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt refunded money he lost to two 
investment scams.
What happened
Mr D was interested in investment trading. In October 2020, he fell victim to two scams. 
Investment 1
Mr D came across a company specialising in gold trading. On 1 October 2020, he sent 
£1,000 ($1,246) to an overseas account, expecting to make a substantial return. Mr D 
realised hed been scammed when he didnt hear back from the company and its website 
suddenly disappeared. He reported this to Lloyds in the spring of 2022, a few months after 
raising his concerns about the second scam.   
Investment 2
Between 19 and 28 October 2020, Mr D made nine payments totalling £11,000 to two UK-
based accounts which hed opened in connection with cryptocurrency trading. Hed been 
contacted by someone on social media about an investment opportunity with a firm F. He 
made faster payments from his Lloyds bank account to his accounts with crypto exchange 
platforms, before converting the funds into cryptocurrency and sending it on to his account 
with F. Mr D realised hed been scammed when he started losing money and Fs website 
suddenly disappeared. He contacted Lloyds about this in October 2021.   
Lloyds refused to refund any of the disputed transactions and Mr D referred the matter to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint either. Mr D disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Duty of care
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and in accordance with general banking 
terms and conditions, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the 
payer, even if they were duped into doing so (for example as part of an investment scam). 
In this case, the disputed payments were made by Mr D using his legitimate security 
credentials. I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments, for which hes liable 
unless theres evidence that Lloyds could and should reasonably have done more to protect 
him and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, which 
requires signatories such as Lloyds to reimburse customers who are victims of scams in all 
but a limited number of circumstances, doesnt apply here. This is because the CRM code 
doesnt apply to international payments (Investment 1) or to payments between two 
accounts held by the same customer (Investment 2).
While I find the CRM code doesnt apply here, it isnt the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as Mr Ds. In accordance with the law, regulations 
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. Lloyds ought to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, having systems in place to identify unusual transactions, 
or other indicators, that its customer was at risk of fraud and, in some situations, making 
additional checks before processing payments or declining them altogether, to protect its 
customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered the operation of Mr Ds account to determine whether the transactions were 
so unusual or uncharacteristic such that I think Lloyds ought to have intervened. 
In relation to the international payment, I dont think there was a reason for Lloyds to have 
challenged it. Looking at the account activity in the year prior to the transaction, I dont 
consider it as particularly unusual or suspicious such that it ought to have triggered Lloydss 
fraud detection system. Mr D regularly made payments for £1,000 or similar amounts from 
his account. And I can see that hed previously sent money to an overseas account. Taking 
these factors into account, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in executing Mr Ds payment 
instruction on 1 October 2020 that he now disputes.
The remaining disputed transactions, which were made in connection to a different 
investment opportunity, occurred over a period of ten days. While the transactions ranged 
between £1 and £4,000, I dont think the individual amounts (including those over £1,000) 
were unusual or out of character for Mr Ds account activity. For example, his bank 
statement shows that Mr D had previously made a payment of £4,000 in November 2019. 
While its true that Mr D had sent £11,000 in a ten-day period, there was an increased 
activity on his account in the weeks leading up to the transactions  including investment-
related payments. He hadnt raised any concerns during that period. As time went on, the 
increased activity came to form part of Mr Ds pattern of account activity. So, the disputed 
transactions wouldnt reasonably have appeared suspicious to Lloyds on account of their 
frequency either. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not persuaded that Lloyds acted unreasonably in 
allowing the disputed transactions to go through.
Recovery
Ive also thought about Lloydss actions in relation to the recovery of funds once it became 
aware of the situation. Banks are expected to attempt recovery of funds by sending a recall 
request to the beneficiary bank as soon as theyre notified of a scam. 
Looking through Lloydss submissions, I can see that it sent a recall request to the overseas 
beneficiary bank when Mr D reported the international payment as a scam in 2022. But no funds remained in the beneficiary account. I dont find that unsurprising, given the length of 
time that had passed since the payment was originally made. Fraudsters tend to remove the 
funds from the beneficiary account within a short period of being credited to prevent the 
funds from being frozen and returned to the victim.
In relation to the other payments, it doesnt look like Lloyds attempted a recall request. But 
even if it had, I note from Mr Ds submissions that hes already transferred the funds out of 
the beneficiary accounts (which were in his name). Hed converted them into cryptocurrency 
and sent it on to the scammer (albeit he didnt know this at the time). So, recovery wouldnt 
have been successful. Its also worth highlighting that Mr D reported the scam to Lloyds in 
October 2021  a year after the transactions occurred. Having carefully considered the 
matter, Im satisfied that theres nothing more Lloyds could have done in relation to the 
recovery of funds.
Summary
I dont think Lloyds ought to have prevented these authorised payments from being sent. 
And I dont think it acted unreasonably in relation to the recovery of funds when it was 
notified of the scam. 
I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr D and Im sorry I 
havent written with better news. I acknowledge that hes experienced personal difficulties 
since losing a large sum of money. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
can fairly or reasonably be held liable to reimburse him for his losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman