DRN-1651876
The complaint
Mr N had a motor insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI). He says it wrongly 
held him at fault for an accident on a roundabout. 
What happened
On 18 June 2018 Mr N told UKI that hed been on a roundabout when another drivers car 
touched the rear right-hand wheel of his car. He didnt want to make a claim but he said 
there was some damage to the other car. On 13 July 2018 the other drivers representative 
contacted UKI to say that Mr N was at fault for the accident. UKI told Mr N that liability was 
likely to be shared. As it wanted more details from him about the accident, in August 2018 it 
sent Mr N an accident report form to complete.
As Mr N heard nothing further after he returned the form, he thought the claim had been 
closed. But when he got his policy renewal documents in December 2018, his premium had 
risen sharply. Mr N queried it and found it was due to the claim not having been resolved. 
UKI reviewed the claim in May 2019 and again in June 2019. It decided that Mr N was fully 
at fault for the accident. It concluded that hed been in the wrong lane for his exit, which 
would have meant hed had to move into the other drivers lane. 
Mr N thought UKIs decision was wrong. He wanted the fault claim removed from his record 
and said his no claims discount (NCD) should be restored. One of our investigators 
considered Mr Ns complaint. He thought UKI had acted reasonably in making its decision on 
liability, having considered all the evidence. He noted that UKI hadnt kept Mr N informed 
properly, but he thought its offer of £50 compensation for that was fair.
 
As Mr N didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for review.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy, UKI has the right to settle any claim as it sees fit. We only interfere with an 
insurers right to do that if we think it hasnt acted reasonably in reaching a conclusion. 
Although Mr N always said the other driver was wholly at fault for the accident, the other 
driver said the opposite. Initially UKI thought that if there was no independent evidence 
either way, the claim should probably be settled with both parties held partly at fault. I think 
that was reasonable enough. But in its review, it looked at a street map view of the 
roundabout. It noted that Mr N had said (and had drawn on the diagrams hed provided) that 
he was in the left-hand lane as he went through the roundabout. The street map view 
showed that in order to take the exit he wanted, hed have had to be in the right-hand lane.  
It seems Mr N thought he was in the correct lane - but having checked the street map view 
UKI relied on, I dont think thats the case. It seems (from the account of both parties) that 
the other driver was in the right-hand lane as he drove across the roundabout to take the exit 
Mr N wanted. So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that the other driver was in the correct 
lane for his exit from the outset - and that its likely Mr N started to move into it, just as the 
other driver had said in his account of the accident. 
UKI had to decide whether, if the case went to court, it would be able to argue successfully 
that Mr N wasnt at fault. Given the available evidence, it thought it wouldnt be able to do 
that. In the circumstances, I think UKI acted reasonably in making the decision it did. 
From the details shown on the file, it seems UKI tried to call Mr N without success to explain 
to him in detail why it had decided he was to blame for the accident. In the end it sent an 
email asking him to call. An advisor then spoke to Mr N when his broker called to say Mr N 
was present. The advisor wasnt sure that Mr N had understood the basis for the decision - 
but sent the broker the link for the street map UKI had relied on, to make it clearer. It seems 
Mr N didnt provide any further details to UKI after that to dispute its decision. And although 
he disagreed with our investigators view, he hasnt explained why. 
I think its understandable that Mr N was shocked to see the rise in premium when he was 
sent the renewal documents. In my opinion it was poor service on UKIs part not to keep him 
informed about the claim, although I dont think it would have made any difference to the 
outcome had UKIs communication with Mr N been better. I think it was right for it to try to 
make up for its poor service by offering him a modest sum in compensation. 
In my opinion, theres no basis for removing the fault claim or restoring Mr Ns NCD, as UKI 
had to accept liability for the accident and pay for the other drivers repairs. Unfortunately, 
that means Mr Ns future premiums are likely to be affected. 
As I dont think Mr Ns shown that UKI acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman