DRN-3485325
The complaint
Mr P says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P took out a 24-month instalment loan for £2,000 from 118 118 Money on 15 August
2017. The monthly repayments were £191.19 and the total repayable was £4,588.56.
Mr P says the loan was unaffordable and he suffered financial hardship as a result.
Our investigator said Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She found the lenders checks left
unanswered questions about whether Mr P could repay the loan sustainably. And further
checks would have shown he most likely couldnt.
118 118 Money disagreed. It challenged the investigators calculation that Mr P already had
£200 of monthly credit commitments, saying his loan had a remaining balance of £60 (not
£70) which would be repaid prior to the first repayment of this loan and so should be
excluded. It did not agree that Mr Ps other credit commitments represented a significant
amount of Mr Ps income. It asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to submit any 
comments or new evidence by 18 May 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr P before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income and his monthly costs, his employment and his residential status. It
reviewed his credit file to understand his credit history and existing commitments. It also
asked about the purpose of the loan which was car purchase/repairs. From these checks
combined 118 118 Money concluded Mr P had enough monthly disposable income to afford
the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate given the value and term of the loan and the stage in
the lending relationship. And I dont think they showed anything that ought to have led 118
118 Money to make a different lending decision. Ill explain why.
Our investigator concluded that Mr P already had a minimum of £200 per month of existing
credit commitments and adding to this would mean he needed to spend a significant portion
of his £1,200 income on credit. This would not be sustainable.
118 118 Money argues that as Mr Ps active loan only had a single repayment for £60
outstanding, which would be repaid before the first repayment for this loan, it should not be
included in this analysis of his ongoing commitments. Given Mr P had made all other
repayments on this loan on time I think this is fair and reasonable.
This means his existing monthly credit commitments were more in the region of £110
(assuming a sustainable repayment of 5% of the available credit across his credit card and
current account). So I dont think giving this loan put Mr P in a position where the sum of his
total credit commitments would most likely have caused him financial harm.
I have considered all of the information 118 118 Money gathered to reach this conclusion. I
note Mr P had declared a relatively low income, but equally his monthly costs were low at
£300. He told the lender he lived with his parents though, so I find this to be plausible. He
would be left with over £500 of disposable income after taking on this loan.
I have also reviewed the credit check 118 118 Money carried out. This showed Mr P had a
low level of debt of £1,912 across four accounts (one of which was due to settle that month).
He was up-to-date on all his accounts. He was using his overdraft facility, within its limit, and
had a balance of £111 on a credit card with a limit of £400. There was no adverse data such
as defaulted accounts, significant or recent arrears or County Court Judgments.
So in the round I dont think there was anything in the information 118 118 Money gathered
that ought to have led it to think Mr P would most likely be unable to sustainably repay this
loan.
It follows I dont currently think 118 118 Money was wrong to lend to Mr P.
I have not seen any evidence 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way towards Mr P.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any comments or new information, I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows I dont find 118 118 Money was wrong to lend to Mr P.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman