DRN-3707403
The complaint
Mr H complains about two loans provided to him by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which he says were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mr Hs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below 
to all actions being taken by Mr H.
What happened
Whilst ELL agreed three loans for Mr H, his complaint was in relation to Loans 2 and 3. But 
for completeness I set out below the borrowing history. 
Loan 1 was for £1,500 and taken out in January 2018. The loan was cancelled in     
February 2018. Loan 2 was for £1,000 and taken out in June 2018. Loan 3 was for £1,500 
and taken out in June 2019. Some of the information ELL provided about the loans is shown 
in the table below. 
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan 
amountMonthly repayments
1. 25/1/2018 27/2/2018 £1,500 24 monthly repayments of 
£156.39
2. 8/6/2018 June 2019 £1,000 Unknown
3. 13/6/2019 Unpaid £1,500 24 monthly repayments of 
£147.35
Mr H said that ELL failed to carry out effective affordability assessments. He said that this 
was quite clearly demonstrated as it was clear that had an effective assessment been 
carried out, the lender wouldnt have provided further advances to him.
ELLs final response letter only dealt with Loans 1 and 3 which werent upheld. It has since 
told this Service that it didnt deal with Loan 2 in error, but it holds no loan file for this loan.
The investigators views
The investigators first view dealt with Loans 1 and 3. She recommended that the complaint 
about Loan 3 should be upheld. With regard to Loan 3, she said there were signs that Mr H 
had recently experienced problems managing his money. Shed reviewed his credit report 
and could see that Mr Hs circumstances had worsened over time and he was relying more 
on additional borrowing. Hed defaulted on a high cost loan and a short-term loan in         
May 2019 and he was in sustained arrears on two other high cost loans for three months 
leading up to Loan 3. Hed also taken out two further short-term loans in the two months 
leading up to Loan 3 which suggested Mr H didnt have the level of discretionary income ELL 
had calculated and he was struggling to repay existing borrowing. The investigator also 
noted that the bank statements ELL saw at the time showed that Mr H was gambling 
frequently.
ELL disagreed and responded to say that:-
-Mr H had one historic default and not the two defaults the investigator had referred to.
-It saw no evidence of the arrears the investigator had referred to. It said that Mr H was 
out of work and started his new job in May 2019 which explained the late payments on a 
loan and to a communications supplier.
-With regard to the new short-term loans, it referred to Mr H being out of work and that 
he was then in a different financial situation. As Mr H was now employed, Loan 3 was 
both affordable and sustainable.
The investigator then reviewed the complaint. She noted that Mr Hs complaint referred 
specifically to the loans taken from June 2018. So, she issued a second view which 
addressed Mr Hs complaint in relation to the lending taken in June 2018 (Loan 2) and          
June 2019 (Loan 3). She concluded that based on everything that had been said and 
provided by the parties, she was unable to say that ELL lent Loan 2 irresponsibly. But, as in 
her first view, she thought that ELL shouldnt have lent Loan 3 which meant that Mr Hs 
complaint should be partially upheld.
Mr H responded to the second view to say that it was agreed. 
ELL didnt provide a response to the second view.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H
and to ELL on 19 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that as Mr H hadnt complained about Loan 1 in his complaint letter to ELL and in 
his complaint form to this Service, I didnt intend to investigate Loan 1. I understood that the 
loan had been cancelled, and the lender said it was unwound around a month after it was 
taken out.
Mr H had agreed to the investigators findings in her second view in which she didnt uphold 
his complaint about Loan 2. So, I didnt intend to say more about Loan 2.
Id said that ELL would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I wouldnt go into detail on these points. I summarised 
by saying that ELL needed to check that Mr H could afford to meet his repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could make his 
repayments out of his usual income without having to borrow to meet them, while meeting 
his existing obligations and without the payments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation. The assessment needed to take into account the nature of the credit and 
Mr Hs circumstances. 
With this in mind, my main consideration was whether ELL treated Mr H fairly when it agreed 
to lend to him. Id thought about whether ELL completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks when assessing his applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his 
repayments without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the information it 
knew, and what it ought reasonably to have known. 
Loan 3The interest rate on Loan 3 was 105.9%, (175.9% APR). The loan agreement provided by 
ELL showed the loan was to be repaid by 18 monthly repayments of £163.72. If Mr H made 
each payment when it was due, hed pay £2,946.96 in total. But ELLs final response letter 
and Go Live Form showed the loan being paid by 24 monthly payments of £147.35. with a 
total amount due of £3,536.40 and this appeared to be the repayment amount and term 
applied to Loan 3. The loan was to be used to buy a car. From the most recent information 
Id seen, the loan was in arrears and hadnt been repaid.
ELL met with Mr H and gathered some information from him about his income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed Loan 3. It had also carried out a credit check and 
saw bank statements for Mr Hs main current account for a period of one month and his new 
employment contract. It estimated Mr Hs other expenditure by using data from the Office for 
National Statistics (ONS). 
Id noted that ELL was aware that Mr H had been unemployed and had recently started a 
new job. It had been provided with a copy of Mr Hs employment contract and would have 
likely seen that Mr H was on a probation period for six months. 
ELL had calculated from the gross salary information in the employment contract that Mr H 
had a basic net monthly income of £1,347. Mr H told ELL that he still lived with his parents 
and paid no board. The lender used the results of its credit checks and other information to 
calculate Mr Hs credit commitments to be £81.06 (on its Go Live form). It estimated Mr Hs 
expenditure as £393 using ONS data and it said that his monthly disposable income after its 
loan repayment would be £725.88. 
Id also reviewed ELLs credit checks. These showed that Mr H had two active loans and one 
revolving credit account. Mr H had a loans balance of £938. He had made 14 credit 
searches in the six months prior to the loan application which I thought might have 
concerned ELL as it suggested a recurrent and recent need for credit. I also thought that 
ELL might have been concerned that in the five months prior to the loan application, Mr H 
had borrowed a high cost loan for £1,097 and two payday loans. Mr H had missed his last 
repayment on the large loan. One of the payday loans had been repaid, but the second was 
taken out just five days later. I thought this suggested that Mr H needed to borrow again to 
fill a hole in his finances that was made by repaying the first payday loan which wasnt a 
sustainable form of borrowing. And whilst Mr H had told ELL that the second payday loan 
had been settled, I could see from Mr Hs own credit report that this wasnt the case and it 
was later defaulted in September 2019. I could also see that Mr H was having difficulties 
paying a communications loan that hed borrowed in November 2017. Hed missed his last 
payment on this account and had also missed his payment in around April 2019. 
ELL had made a list of Mr Hs credit commitments. Id noted that ELLs list didnt include any 
credit not shown in its credit checks. But the lender would have been aware that its credit 
checks might not have revealed the full extent of Mr Hs credit commitments. A lender might 
only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised. Its checks might not necessarily be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to 
the same credit reference agencies.
In view of Mr Hs recent need for credit and missed payments, I thought ELL needed to 
gather more information from him about his credit. Id seen from Mr Hs own credit report that 
hed taken out a short-term high cost loan in early February 2019 for £568 on which no 
payments had been made. There was a further short-term high cost loan taken out in                        
mid-February 2019 for £642 on which there had been arrears from April 2019. Mr Hs current 
account was also showing as overdrawn in both January 2019 and April 2019. 
Id noted that ELL appeared to have made allowances for Mr Hs missed payments and 
short-term borrowing as he was out of work. But Mr H appeared to have been taking out high cost credit since January 2019 on a regular basis which suggested he might have been 
reliant on it. 
Id also reviewed the bank statements ELL saw for the period 13 May 2019 to 13 June 2019. 
I could see that Mr H spent almost £500 on gambling. Id noted that ELL said that the 
gambling was a one-off as Mr H was out of work. But it appeared that most of the gambling 
transactions were made after Mr H had started his new job (going by the date of his 
employment contract). Mr H was spending a significant proportion of his income on 
gambling. The gambling transactions were frequent enough that I thought it was more likely 
than not that the gambling would continue in the same pattern. And it pointed to a pattern of 
spending that posed a risk to Mr H being able to repay the loan without the payments having 
a significant adverse impact on his financial situation. 
Whilst ELL appeared to have gone through the statements and made a tick mark against 
most of the transactions on the statements, it didnt seem that ELL had used the bank 
statements it received to verify Mr Hs expenses as it had used ONS data to estimate these. 
I didnt think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on statistical information about Mr Hs living 
costs without verifying it. ELL used ONS data, which was based on the finances and 
expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Hs living expenses. But I didnt think it 
was reasonable for ELL to have thought that Mr Hs circumstances fell within this average 
portfolio. ELLs affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr H and I thought it should have 
been in his circumstances. 
ELL needed to consider Mr Hs ability to make repayments under the agreement as they fell 
due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or statutory duty to 
make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his financial 
situation. It wasnt enough for it to ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. So, had ELL considered fully the 
information it had received and enquired further into Mr Hs financial situation, I thought ELL 
should have reasonably suspected that he was having problems managing his money and it 
was likely that the repayments on Loan 3 would have a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. So, I thought that ELL made an unfair lending decision about Loan 3. 
For the reasons given above, but subject to any further information or evidence I might 
receive from the parties, I said that I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and that 
ELL should put things right as Ive set out below under the heading Putting things right  
what ELL needs to do. 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that Loan 3 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr H back into the position 
he would have been had Loan 3 not been agreed for him, ELL needs to ensure that Mr H 
only repays the total amount of money he received as a result of having been given Loan 3. 
So, ELL needs to:
1. Calculate the amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given   
Loan 3. For the avoidance of doubt this amount should not include any interest, 
charges, document or any other administration fees;
2. The payments Mr H made to Loan 3 should be deducted from this amount;
3. Any payments made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds the amount of 
money Mr H was given should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr H;
4. Interest at 8% per year simple should be paid on any overpayments made, if they 
were, from the date they were paid by Mr H to the date of settlement;*5. If the total amount of money paid by Mr H doesnt exceed the amount of money he 
received as a result of having been given Loan 3 (and for the avoidance of doubt any 
outstanding balance shouldnt include any interest, charges and document or other 
administration fees), ELL should treat Mr H positively and sympathetically regarding 
repayment of the balance. This might mean agreeing a mutually agreeable 
repayment plan with him; and
6. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of Loan 3. 
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 3 it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps 1. to 6. 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr H 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Both Mr H and ELL responded to my provisional decision to say that they agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr H and ELL agreed with my provisional decision and have given me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require ELL to take the 
steps set out above under the heading Putting things right - what ELL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right 
as Ive set out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman