DRN-1052716
The complaint
Miss S complained to National Westminster Bank Plc that it had not carried out her request 
to change her packaged bank account (PBA) to a standard account. She says that, as a 
result, she has been paying fees for extra features she doesnt want. 
What happened
In 2015, Miss S complained to NatWest that it had mis-sold her a PBA. NatWest upheld her 
complaint and refunded the fees shed paid, plus interest.  
In 2016 Miss S complained that she was still paying for a PBA and that NatWest had failed 
to carry out her request to change to a fee-free account. NatWest said that, in its letter 
upholding her complaint in 2015, it couldnt find any specific request to downgrade the 
account, but that it didnt dispute what she had said. It refunded the fees she had paid since 
2015 and all other costs shed incurred as a result of still having the PBA. 
In 2019 Miss S complained that NatWest had still not carried out her request to downgrade 
her account and it was still taking a PBA fee each month. 
NatWest this time didnt agree with Miss Ss complaint, although it paid Miss S £60 as a 
gesture of goodwill. NatWest said to Miss S: 
Please be aware that as per our conversation, you will need to contact us to convert 
your account to a non fee paying account if this is what you would like to do. 
Regrettably, I am not able to do this for you. You can contact the team on 0800 200 
400 and select option 2
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and decided not to recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Miss S didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss S might have assumed, when she complained in 2015, that 
NatWest would change her account to a non-fee account. Also, I dont think the letter 
NatWest wrote in 2015 was as clear as it should have been, when it told Miss S she 
would need to arrange for her account to be changed. I say this because the sentence 
about this came after the actual letter had finished, and was at the end of the attachment 
saying how much refund she would get. So I dont think its surprising if Miss S didnt spot 
that. 
This is why I think NatWest did the right thing in March 2016 when it refunded the extra fees 
and costs Miss S had been charged up to then. In its decision letter it also said:
the then advisor [in 2015] whom investigated your complaint had advised for you to 
contact us and request your account downgraded to prevent future charges.
The letter also said:
Please note that your account is currently a Select Platinum Packaged Account. If 
you would like to downgrade your account you can do visiting one of our branches or 
by telephone. I would recommend that a service review may be the way forward in 
order to discuss the options available to you. 
I think, in March 2016, NatWest does seem to have done enough to warn Miss S that she 
had to take active steps to change her account. It would be quite usual for a large financial 
organisation to have these kinds of procedures, to make sure the correct actions and checks 
were carried out. Miss S says she emailed a downgrade request, which was ignored. She 
hasnt given us any evidence of the email, but I think anyway NatWest was clear that she 
needed to either go into a branch or telephone a specific number. So I think she had it 
explained what she needed to do.
I can see that, in January 2017, Miss S filled in a form to change her account. One of the 
options available was to have a Select Account which is NatWests non-fee account. 
However, Miss S ticked to select a PBA with a monthly fee. The documents, which Miss S 
filled in and signed, made clear that there would be a monthly fee. So, by January 2017, I do 
think NatWest had definitely made it clear what choices Miss S had. And, as Ive already 
said, I also think they did enough in March 2016 to tell Miss S what she needed to do, if she 
wanted to avoid accounts with monthly fees. 
This is why I havent agreed with Miss Ss complaint and wont be telling NatWest to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman