DRN-2142123
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the service provided when she claimed on her insurance after 
discovering a leak in her house.
What happened
Ms J had a home emergency policy, which was underwritten by Aviva. One evening in 
November 2019, she discovered a leak coming from a water tank in her home. She 
attempted to call the emergency line but says she couldnt get through for over an hour and 
a half, despite trying three different numbers.
Ms J says she didnt know how to turn the mains water off, but she used towels and bowls to 
try and stop the water coming through the ceiling to the boiler room below. Unfortunately, the 
leak caused serious damage to her boiler, which shes been unable to use since.
Ms J called again the following morning, which was a Saturday, and was able to register a 
claim. The call handler originally said there were no engineers available until Monday, but 
after further discussion they were able to find someone to attend that afternoon.
Due to the damage being caused by the leak, Ms J also arranged a local plumber to come 
and fix the problem. When the engineer arrived, the local plumber was still there, replacing 
the stopcock. Ms J asked the engineer to fix the overflow pipe, but he refused as the local 
plumber was already there.
Ms J complained to our service. She felt that Aviva failed to live up to their promise of 
providing 24/7 support. She said the fact she couldnt get through to anyone to come that 
evening caused significant damage to her boiler. She also felt that the engineer who 
attended the next day should have repaired the overflow pipe as she requested.
Aviva said that their phone lines were working that evening and they dont feel that the wait 
time was excessive. But they offered £115 due to the vulnerable circumstances Ms J finds 
herself in. They also agreed to refund the £30 excess on the claim as their engineer didnt 
carry out any work.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought that Aviva had acted fairly. He said the 
evidence hed seen didnt show that Ms J had been waiting an unreasonable length of time 
to get through to the emergency line. And he felt that it was reasonable for the engineer not 
to carry out work while another plumber was already making repairs.
Ms J didn't accept our investigator's opinion, so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calls to emergency line and damage to boiler
Ms J said that she tried to call the emergency line for over an hour and a half after 
discovering the leak. She also said that she tried three different numbers but couldnt get 
through.
Ms J has sent us a copy of her phone bill to show the calls she made. But this only shows 
two calls made to the emergency numbers on the evening in question. These lasted for a 
duration of 4 minutes 38 seconds, then 1 minute 30 seconds.
I asked Ms J if she could have called from a different number, or if she had any other 
evidence to show the calls she made. But she was unable to provide any other records. 
Looking at the evidence I have, I cant see that Ms J was waiting for an unreasonable 
amount of time to get through to someone on the emergency line. 
I know that Ms J has said she was on the phone for over an hour and a half trying to get 
through to Aviva. But the evidence shes provided shows that she made two calls to the 
helpline, together lasting just over six minutes. 
Aviva have also investigated Ms Js claims and looked into their phone queues that evening. 
Theyve confirmed that there were no faults on their lines. So they were available had Ms J 
kept trying
As she was calling an emergency helpline, I think its reasonable to expect them to be busy. 
And based on Ms Js evidence of the calls she made, I cant conclude that Aviva didnt 
provide the emergency service they promised. 
Ms J says that her damage was caused to her boiler because she couldnt get through to the 
emergency line on the Friday evening. As Ive said, I dont think Aviva are at fault for Ms J 
being unable to get through.
Even if they were, Ms J has told us that water was already leaking through the ceiling which 
is how she found the leak. So even if shed got through immediately and Aviva had sent an 
engineer that night, its likely there wouldve been some damage to the boiler. 
As it was, Aviva arranged an engineer to attend within four hours of them being informed of 
the claim. And I think this was a reasonable timeframe.
Aviva have offered £115 as a goodwill gesture to Ms J, as she has found herself in a 
vulnerable situation. But they dont feel theyve acted unreasonably. Given that I agree 
theyve acted fairly, Im not recommending this amount is increased.
The engineers visit
Ms J is unhappy that the engineer refused to repair the overflow pipe when he attended on 
Saturday afternoon. He said this was because there was already a local plumber working on 
the repairs.Ms J says the local plumber only repaired the stopcock, so the engineer should have 
repaired the overflow pipe. But I think it was reasonable for the engineer to say they wouldnt 
carry out any repairs when there was already someone there working.
As their engineer didnt carry out any work, Aviva have refunded Ms Js £30 excess. I think it 
was right that they did this, and I wont be asking them to do anything further 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Ms J's complaint against Aviva Insurance
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman