DRN-2221555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy for water damage.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs B noticed a leak coming through their kitchen celling from the 
bathroom above. They contacted a plumber who attended their property and said he couldnt 
find any leaking pipes and suggested the leak was coming from the seals around the bath.
Mr and Mrs B contacted Aviva to make a claim for water damage under their home 
insurance policy. Aviva declined the claim on the basis that it didnt fall within the escape of 
water cover provided by the policy. It also said the claim couldnt be considered under the 
accidental damage section of the policy, because it was for damage which had occurred 
gradually. Aviva also said the damage had been caused by a maintenance defect and 
referred Mr and Mrs B to the exclusions for wear and tear in the policy.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that their claim was declined. They said they couldnt have 
known about the damage until the leak came through the ceiling. Mr and Mrs B also raised a 
complaint about the service they received whilst Aviva was handling their claim. This aspect 
of the complaint has been resolved with Mr and Mrs B having accepted compensation of 
£100. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was persuaded that the damage had been 
caused gradually rather than by a sudden escape of water. He didnt think Aviva had acted 
unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was an escape of water through the kitchen ceiling in Mr and 
Mrs Bs property. However, theres a disagreement between Mr and Mrs B and Aviva about 
the correct outcome of this claim.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Bs policy to see what is and isnt covered. In the Buildings 
Section, theres a section which relates to escape of water. This covers water escaping from 
water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed heating systems.
Ive thought about whether this section of the policy covers the circumstances of this claim. 
In doing so, Ive had regard to the report provided by the contractor appointed by Aviva (C) 
to assist with the claim. Cs report notes that the plumber who initially attended found 
evidence of water escaping from around the bath due to defective seals. Cs inspection 
found evidence of water leaking below the bath caused by defective seals. It also found that 
the seal around the shower screen was defective and that water had leaked there as well. 
The report said there was no evidence that the water had leaked from the bath taps.
Based on the report, I think Aviva has acted fairly in declining the claim on the basis that it 
isnt covered by the escape of water section of the policy. Both the plumber and C found that 
the damage had been caused by defective seals around the bath. There is no evidence to 
suggest that the water escaped from a water tank, a pipe or the heating system, which is 
what the escape of water section of the policy covers.
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs Bs claim could be covered by the section of the 
policy which relates to accidental damage. This section defines accidental damage as 
damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force.
Ive thought about whether this section of the policy covers the circumstances of this claim 
and in doing so Ive had regard to Cs report. The report says (of the water escaping from 
around the defective seals) that the process has been ongoing for a considerable time. Ive 
looked at the photos included with Cs report. These show water marks on the wall below the 
bath and shower. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the water escaped due to defective seals. But 
taking into account the nature of the damage as shown by the photos, I think its more likely 
that long term water exposure caused the damage. Taking all of the available evidence into 
account, I think Aviva has acted fairly in declining the claim on the basis that the damage 
wasnt caused suddenly and unexpectedly.
Mr and Mrs B have said that they werent aware of the damage until the water leaked 
through the ceiling. This is something I would have needed to consider if the claim had fallen 
within the escape of water section of the policy. If that section had applied, a sudden escape 
of water would be covered, but any damage caused by a gradual leak where the consumer 
ought reasonably to have been aware of the damage wouldnt be covered. So, I would need 
to consider whether the damage was caused by a long-standing issue which Mr and Mrs B 
ought to have been aware of, and whether Aviva acted fairly in declining a claim for damage 
which happened gradually if Mr and Mrs B couldnt reasonably have been aware of it. 
However, Im satisfied that the policy exclusion for gradually operating causes applies to the 
occurrence of the damage to Mr and Mrs Bs claim and so its reasonable for Aviva to decline 
the claim under the escape of water and accidental damage parts of the policy.
Based on everything Ive seen, and whilst I understand that my decision will be disappointing 
for Mr and Mrs B, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman