DRN-4451793
The complaint
Miss C complains that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive) irresponsibly gave her a 
loan that she couldnt afford in August 2017. 
What happened
In 2017, Miss C applied for a loan with Progressive. The loan amount was £5,000, the 
term was 48 months and the monthly repayment was £243.99. 
In 2022, Miss C complained to Progressive to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened because it wasnt affordable and that Progressive ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Progressive didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 9 November 2023, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why, it was my intention not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. I set out an 
extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Progressive will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Cs complaint is that Progressive made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Progressive has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss C provided at the 
time of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in 
Miss Cs name to assess Miss Cs level of debt at that time and to understand how she 
had been managing that debt. And I have listened to the telephone calls during which this 
was discussed with Miss C along with a verbal income and expenditure exercise. With 
that information and using their own scoring metric, and after discussions with Miss C, 
Progressive decided to agree to the credit limit of £5,000. So, there was some 
assessment of affordability at the time of the sale. 
Progressive thinks its checks were proportionate. Our investigator thought so too, as do I. 
But, Im not persuaded that the lending was irresponsible. Ill explain why I say that.
I have noted that Miss Cs credit file was not entirely clean at the time of the loan 
application. When I say this, I mean that Miss Cs management of her existing credit was 
not devoid of any recent adverse marking. Indeed, this was discussed with Miss C at the 
time of the lending decision. But Ive noted that Miss Cs credit report showed no recent 
history of CCJs or defaults. I do not think that the credit position was such that 
Progressive should have avoided any further lending to Miss C. 
Whilst Miss C income was modest, so was her committed expenditure, which was 
discussed in some detail. And the credit was not immodest compared to that income. And 
so, Im not persuaded that Progressive had sufficient reason not to lend money to Miss C 
or that the new borrowing was sufficient to be automatically unreasonable.  
In saying that I have also had consideration for the purpose of the loan. The purpose of 
the loan was almost entirely for debt consolidation with a small amount available to help 
Miss C travel to see her son. So, I dont see the loan as evidence solely of new credit 
being provided by Progressive, adding to an already large amount of personal borrowing. 
Instead, rather than the new credit adding to Miss Cs burden of credit, in terms of total 
debt and the monthly cost of servicing that debt, it looks like Miss C was taking steps, that 
could be termed sensible, to manage her existing debt by taking out this loan and using it 
to pay off other debts that were presumably on less favourable terms. 
The cost of the new borrowing was no more expensive than the cost of servicing the 
previous borrowings and the income and expenditure exercise showed a new disposable 
income that was significant. And as the debts that were repaid were credit card and 
catalogue debts, the loan also provided a repayment mechanism for debts that otherwise 
had no committed repayment plan. So, having considered all the details of this complaint, 
it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for Progressive to have facilitated all of that. 
Having considered all the submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the 
lending decision, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have 
seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit Progressive are responsible for was 
unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 23 November 2023. Progressive responded acknowledging 
receipt of my provisional decision and accepting my provisional findings. Miss Cs 
representative has acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and has made a further 
submission challenging the provisional findings. 
I am grateful to both parties for responding so quickly to the provisional findings. As both 
parties have responded to the provisional decision, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Cs representatives repeated things that were presented during the course of the 
complaint, and which I considered before issuing my provisional findings. In particular, they 
have drawn my attention again to the credit report and have itemised some instances when 
Miss Cs credit history showed adverse signs. I had considered Miss Cs credit report fully 
before issuing my provisional decision and I refer to it in that document. But the adverse 
markings Miss Cs representatives wish me to place more weight on happened after the 
lending decision to provide the debt consolidation loan had been made. I cannot use hindsight in reaching my determinations. I must consider the circumstances that 
pertained at the time the lending was agreed. And this loan was an attempt to bring some 
order to Miss Cs finances as the majority of the borrowing was for debt consolidation. Miss 
Cs representatives have had nothing to say about this aspect of the borrowing. 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, including Miss Cs 
representatives latest submission, I have still seen insufficient reason to uphold the 
complaint. 
As neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider following 
my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already 
set out my full reasons (above) for not upholding Miss Cs complaint, I have nothing further 
to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman