DRN-3346063
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr M complains that City Asset Management Plc (CAM) didnt invest 
the cash he paid into his portfolio quickly enough. This meant that, when Mr M died, a 
portion of his investment didnt qualify for business relief.
The complaint is brought by the executor of the estate, who I will refer to as Mrs H.
What happened
In or around early 2017, Mr M sought investment advice from an independent financial 
advisor (IFA). It was agreed he would open a discretionary investment management 
portfolio with CAM. The portfolio was for capital growth and was to be invested in the 
Alternative Investment Market (AIM). 
Mr M paid the following amounts into his portfolio:
March 2017 £200,000
November 2017 £120,000
May 2018 £44,188
Mr M died on 7 April 2020. 
Most AIM stocks are exempt from inheritance tax (IHT) if theyve been held for more than 
two years. Mrs H expected the investments made in March and November 2017 to qualify 
for IHT relief. But she discovered that around £79,000 hadnt been invested for several 
months meaning the shares hadnt been held for at least two years when Mr M died. She 
wants CAM to pay the IHT on the investment which didnt qualify for relief.
CAM said its investment managers considered it prudent to slow down the investment 
process due to market issues; that the IFA hadnt instructed it to invest urgently; and that it 
sent quarterly valuations which showed the uninvested money.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it 
was unreasonable for some of the portfolio to be held in cash for some time, and that CAM 
had discretion to invest as it saw fit to meet Mr Ms needs.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
CAMs statements were infrequent and not easy to follow, especially for an elderly 
customer.
Around £79,000 remained uninvested five months after Mr M had transferred £120,000 
into the portfolio. The delay prejudiced the chance of the money being sheltered from 
IHT.
CAMs example portfolio, provided as part of its investment proposal, shows 5% being 
held as cash. But in Mr Ms case it was holding around 25% in cash.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The recommendation to invest in CAMs AIM portfolio was made by the IFA. And CAM sent 
all information about its AIM portfolio to the IFA, not Mr M. This complaint isnt about the 
recommendation to invest in the AIM portfolio the suitability of that decision is the 
responsibility of the IFA, not CAM.
One of the benefits of investing in the AIM portfolio is that most AIM stocks enjoy IHT relief 
after a two-year investment. But I find that the aim of achieving tax relief for Mr Ms estate 
needed to be balanced with the need to invest in suitable investments which met his 
investment objectives. Investment in AIM stocks is high risk and in order to try to maximise 
returns, it was important for CAM to consider stock selection and the timing of investment in 
the market. My role isnt to decide what CAM should have invested in and when. Rather it is 
to decide whether CAM acted fairly and reasonably, and in accordance with its terms and 
conditions and the investment mandate.
Whilst its investment proposal for Mr M showed the investment sector split, including a cash 
holding of 5%, it makes it reasonably clear that this is an example. I would expect Mr Ms 
investment to be broadly aligned with this example, but I wouldnt expect it to follow it 
exactly. Mr Ms portfolio wasnt required to have 5%, or thereabouts, held in cash at all 
times. CAM was acting as discretionary investment manager and it was CAMs decision, and 
responsibility, to decide when was the right time to invest. Im satisfied with CAMs 
explanation that it had slowed down investment in AIM stocks in response to the market at 
the time. I accept that the delay in investment has prevented the estate benefiting from IHT 
relief. But the delay aimed to ensure Mr M benefitted from an increase in the value of his 
investment, which may not have been the case if CAM had invested when it felt the market 
didnt represent good value. And the timing of the investment was important when investing 
in AIM stocks because price volatility and insolvencies were more likely to occur. 
Part 4 of the CAM/IFA agreement sets out the duties of the advisor  the IFA in this case. 
The IFA had to provide details of Mr Ms investment mandate, and this included:
all such facts and matters which shall operate to limit the discretion of CAM (4.2.3)
I find Mr M, or his IFA, could have instructed CAM to invest his cash immediately, or with 
some urgency, and this would have limited CAMs discretion to choose the timing of the 
investment. But Ive not seen evidence which would persuade me that CAM was instructed 
to invest the cash within a particular timescale.
CAM sent Mr Ms IFA quarterly valuations. Mrs H says this was too infrequent, but this was 
the arrangement agreed when the portfolio was opened. I cant see there was a request for 
more frequent valuations.
I find the valuations were reasonably clear. In particular, they showed the amount of cash 
held uninvested in the portfolio. In January 2018, around two months after Mr M had credited 
the portfolio with £120,000, around £101,000 remained uninvested. I would have expected 
Mr M, or most likely his IFA, to have contacted CAM on receipt of the valuation if he had any 
concerns about the cash not being invested. Ive not seen evidence to show any contact was 
made.
Overall, I dont find there was any obligation on CAM to invest the cash within a set time period. Rather it was dependent on its view of the AIM market. And neither do I find that 
Mr M or his IFA instructed CAM to invest his cash with any urgency. For these reasons, I 
cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman