DRN-3924035
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs C have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-
sold them an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in August 2012. Mr E and Mrs C 
paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr E and Mrs C 
say that the benefits of the account were not useful to them and they were unaware that they 
had the option of a free account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr E and Mrs Cs complaint. They did not think that the 
URCA was mis-sold. 
Mr E and Mrs C did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. This complaint will only address the sale of the URCA, I note that Mr E and Mrs 
Cs representative has mentioned that they were suffering from financial difficulties, and this 
caused them to pay excessive overdraft charges over the years they held the account. If 
they remain unhappy with this they would need to address this to Halifax as a new issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr E and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I know this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr E and Mrs C, but after giving this 
case a lot of thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to them. I know this isnt the 
outcome that they were hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help them to 
understand how I have come to this conclusion. 
I've started by thinking about whether Mr E and Mrs C were aware the URCA account was 
optional and whether they were given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its 
more likely than not that they were. I say this because they had previously had a fee-free 
bank account with Halifax for a number of years. So, I think that Mr E and Mrs C wouldve 
been aware that free accounts existed and were an option for them. 
I think it is more likely that initially they took out the account for the benefits that it came with. 
To explain further, one of the benefits of the URCA was an interest and fee-free planned 
overdraft of up to £300. This means that if a consumer stayed below the £300 overdraft limit 
or their agreed limit if lower, they wouldnt have to pay the daily £1 overdraft usage fee. 
The monthly fee for the URCA was £15.00 at the time. So, as long as Mr E and Mrs C used 
their overdraft within the £300 fee-free portion for 15 days or more each month, they could 
potentially have been financially better off by having the URCA. I can see that in the month 
prior to this upgrade Mr E and Mrs C were being charged more than the cost of the URCA in 
daily overdraft fees, so, in essence, I think that they upgraded knowing they did not have to 
do so, but agreed to the account so that they could potentially reduce the cost of using their 
overdraft.
 
Additionally, I think it is possible that when the account was sold, though I accept that this 
may have changed over time, Mr E and Mrs C may have been able to use the breakdown 
cover and mobile phone insurance. I say this because there were transactions around the 
time of the sale suggesting that one of the account holders drove and may have owned a 
mobile phone too. So this may have also been a factor in them agreeing to the account in 
the first place.
This account was not recommended to Mr E and Mrs C. This means that Halifax did not 
need to ensure that the benefits were suitable for Mr E and Mrs C. But it did need to provide 
Mr E and Mrs C with enough information to decide this for herself.
Again, I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came 
with as it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr E and Mrs C. 
I accept that Mr E and Mrs C may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with. But I cant see anything about their circumstances at the time that 
makes me think they wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had they been 
given more information about it. 
I note that Mr E and Mrs Cs representative says that Mr E and Mrs C could not read or 
understand what they were agreeing to. I can see though that there was a signed application 
form from the time of the sale and I cant see why Mr E and Mrs C wouldve signed for 
something when they were unaware of what they were agreeing to. I think it likely that the 
benefits were explained at the time though over time they may no longer recall this and this 
is why they agreed to the account.
I accept Mr E and Mrs Cs comments that they have not ended up using the account benefits 
and I can see from the bank statements I have been provided with, that the overdraft benefit 
may not have ended up being as useful as they mayve first thought. But I dont think that 
this means it was mis-sold in the first instance.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA account was mis-sold to 
Mr E and Mrs C. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr E 
and Mrs C the account fees that theyve been charged whilst they held the URCA account.
I understand that this may be frustrating to Mr E and Mrs C, as I can see they strongly feel 
that their account was mis-sold. I also understand that, with the benefit of hindsight, the 
URCA account may not have represented good value for money. But I cant uphold their 
complaint due to this. I can only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was 
sold incorrectly in the first place. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman