DRN-3139451
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation 
to a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme that he held with his former 
employer. Portal processed the transfer of Mr Ms DB scheme benefits to a personal pension 
with an income drawdown facility on an insistent client basis. Mr M says Portal should have 
clearly recommended that he didnt transfer instead of providing him with insistent client 
documentation. Mr M says hes suffered a loss as a result of Portals actions.
What happened
Mr M first approached Portal in 2016 in response to a social media advert to discuss his 
pension and retirement needs. 
No action was taken at this stage  but in January 2018 Portal completed a fact-find to 
gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. It also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately cautious. 
On 5 February 2018 Portal sent Mr M a letter saying that it recommended he didnt transfer 
his DB pension scheme benefits because of the guarantees / benefits that he would be 
giving up. It said that the growth rate required to match his guaranteed benefits available 
from his DB scheme at age 65  a pension of just under £1,200 a year and a tax-free lump 
sum of over £5,500 -  was too high at 5.2%. But Portal said it could still help Mr M if he 
wanted to go ahead and it asked him to complete and return the enclosed insistent client 
form.
On 7 February 2018 Mr M returned the insistent client form. Where asked, Mr M indicated on 
the form that he acknowledged his new pension was unlikely to achieve the required growth 
rate and that he was giving up guaranteed benefits. Mr M indicated that he wanted to access 
his pension money early to ...go on holiday and do some DIY.
On 15 February 2018 Portal sent Mr M a suitability report setting out its advice. The report 
outlined Mr Ms circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he was employed; he 
was renting his home; he had around £2,500 in assets; he had no liabilities; and he had no 
disposable income each month. 
The report went on to set out the details of Mr Ms existing DB pension scheme, which 
included the transfer value and the amount of pension Mr M could expect from his scheme at 
age 65. It also said the critical yield required to match Mr Ms existing scheme benefits was 
18.4% (assuming a reduced pension and tax-free sum being paid.)
The report said that Mr Ms objective was to access his tax-free cash entitlement to go on 
holiday and make home improvements. 
Portal noted that it had explored with Mr M other ways to generate the money required to 
meet his objective - but said that he didnt have enough assets to raise the money required, 
or enough disposable income, he didnt own any property and he didnt want to take on 
further lending or pay the resulting interest.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended 
that Mr M shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the benefits he would 
be giving up  but it said that Mr M had decided to disregard the advice and that it would be 
treating him as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mr M transfer his pension to a 
flexible drawdown arrangement to enable him to meet his objective.
Mr C signed the relevant application forms in June 2018 and the transfer went ahead. Mr M 
subsequently received his tax-free cash payment and the proceeds were invested in a range 
of funds, which Portal deemed matched Mr Ms attitude to risk.
In 2020 Mr M complained, via a representative to Portal about the advice he received.
Portal considered the complaint and issued its final response to Mr M in November 2020. In 
summary it said that it had provided suitable advice and had acted in Mr Ms best interests. It 
said that it had recommended Mr M not to transfer the benefits from his DB scheme because 
of the guaranteed benefits it provided. It said that it fully explained the risks involved and that 
Mr M was better off remaining in his DB scheme. But it said that Mr M insisted on going 
ahead against the advice, so it treated him as an insistent client and facilitated the transfer.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and they
concluded that his complaint should be upheld. In summary they said that Portal hadnt 
acted fairly towards Mr M and they didnt think he was a true insistent client. They said Portal 
only provided Mr M with its suitability report and the reasons why he shouldnt transfer out of 
his DB pension scheme after hed signed the insistent client form, so they didnt think Portal 
made Mr M fully aware of the risks involved in transferring his pension or the benefits that he 
would be giving up. They went on to say that Portal didnt properly explore the alternatives 
available to Mr M to meet his objective and that overall they didnt think Mr M wouldve gone 
ahead and transferred had things happened as they should have.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said:
it believes it acted fairly and reasonably and with Mr Ms best interest in mind.
it advised against the transfer and clearly explained this to Mr M. 
Mr M clearly chose the option to go against Portals recommendation and he 
confirmed that he was aware of the risks and the benefits he would be giving up by 
transferring.
the returned insistent client form was in Mr Ms own words contrary to the view of the 
investigator.
it believes it followed the correct insistent client process and says that its postal 
correspondence process demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions.
it refutes the finding that Mr M wasnt a genuine insistent client.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr M as an insistent client - this is a 
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
Since 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three 
key steps for advisers to take.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client - COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Portal says that it followed the rules  it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Ms best 
interests. It says that it followed the correct insistent client process and that its postal 
correspondence process demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions. 
Mr M says that he was told that he could take a lump sum from his pension and attracted by 
this opportunity he wanted to take his family on holiday and he agreed to go ahead. He says 
this was an aspirational expenditure and not a necessary one  particularly not at the 
expense of losing guaranteed pension benefits. 
Mr M says he would not have transferred his pension but for Portals involvement.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses 
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr Ms best interests. And 
I think Mr M likely understood or believed overall that Portal was recommending he should 
go ahead with the transfer.I say this because on 5 February 2018 following the telephone discussion Portal had with Mr 
M about his pension options, it sent him what can only be described as a brief letter with the 
outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth rate required to match Mr Ms 
guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, and because hed be giving up those guaranteed 
benefits, it recommended he should not transfer away from his DB scheme to access a tax-
free cash lump sum. 
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr Ms best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the 
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later 
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr M had 
little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr M should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by 
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be 
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr M needed to complete 
and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against 
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes 
me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Ms 
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis 
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best interests, it also wouldnt have told him 
at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit a brief one - how he could put it 
aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr M could ignore 
Portals recommendation was unfair to him and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal 
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed 
on this, that Mr M could reasonably have interpreted this overall that Portal was 
recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr M had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example 
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr M was an 
experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced. Im mindful too 
that Portal had deemed Mr Ms attitude to risk to be moderately cautious. 
I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters 
through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mr Ms insistent client forms included a section where he put in his own words 
why he wanted to access his pension fund early. And while this was something the FCA 
guidance pointed to as being good practice, I dont think Mr Ms response adequately 
demonstrates that he knew and understood the risks involved and the recommendation 
being made. 
I say this not only because the majority of the form was pre-completed and Mr M simply had 
to tick a box to say that he understood what he was giving up by transferring, but crucially as 
I indicated earlier on, he hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report and had time to 
read and digest it before deciding to go ahead anyway. So Im not persuaded Mr M was able 
to make an informed choice here. And I dont think this document alone sufficiently showed 
Mr M was an insistent client.It was only after receiving Mr Ms confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portal sent him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation not 
to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was followed by a positive recommendation, advising 
Mr M to transfer his benefits to facilitate a flexible drawdown pension. And this was all set 
out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr M 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr M advice on the advice to 
transfer, and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability 
report after securing Mr Ms confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr M transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this 
completely undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively 
recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring 
out of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ms best interests, it 
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable 
for him. It couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of the full 
suitability report Mr M likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the DB 
scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so.
Mr Ms objective for accessing his pension early was to take his family on holiday and to 
carry out some home improvements. Interestingly, during the initial telephone call with Portal 
in which it discussed Mr Ms objectives, he said he only needed £2,000 for a holiday  it 
wasnt until he was told the amount he could access tax-free that he said he could use the 
extra amount for home improvements. I think he was seduced by the sum of money he was 
told he could gain access to. But in any event, it doesnt strike me that Mr Ms objective 
could only reasonably be met by transferring his benefits out of his DB scheme. Yet I think 
that Mr M most likely went ahead with the transfer because he believed this to be the case. 
I say this because, while Portals recommendation says that it discussed alternative courses 
of action with Mr M to meet his objective and it gave the reasons these were discounted, I 
think Portal paid little attention to this matter and it far too readily used what Mr M said to put 
them to one side. For example, Portal recorded on the fact-find that taking a loan was 
discounted because interest rates were too high. Im not persuaded this is exactly what Mr M 
said or meant during the phone call in which this was discussed. But regardless, this was 
during a period of historically low interest rates, so I think Portal shouldve explored this with 
Mr M in more detail  particularly given as I said above that he originally said he only wanted 
£2,000 for a family holiday. And because despite how Mr Ms income and expenditure is 
recorded in the fact-find, I think it was affordable.
I think the rules and guidance that in were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to 
act with due care and skill and in Mr Ms best interests. And by not seeking to properly 
address what I consider was Mr Ms real objective of only wanting a couple of thousand 
pounds for a holiday or to fully consider the reasonable alternatives available to him to 
address his need before carrying things out, Im not persuaded this was acting in his best 
interests.
Ultimately I dont think Mr M was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that
he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea and
this was the only way to meet his objective. I also think Portal ultimately gave Mr M a 
positive recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme, which in the circumstances I 
think wouldve given him the impression that Portal agreed with his approach 
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr M can truly be regarded as an insistent 
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an insistent client. 
Portals overall communication with Mr M wasnt clear. It didnt act in Mr Ms best interests. 
And it failed to act with due care and skill. 
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether 
Mr M wouldve still gone ahead. Having done so, if Portal had acted in Mr Ms best interests, 
providing a recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at 
the outset, and addressing Mr Ms true objective at the time, I dont think he wouldve 
insisted on going ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr M was 
an experienced investor such that he possessed the requisite knowledge or had the 
confidence to go against the advice he was given. I think he relied solely on the advice and 
process Portal employed. I dont think Mr Ms objective was set in stone or that there werent 
other things that couldve been properly explored with him meaning hed have gone ahead in 
any event.
I can see that Mr M went on to make further withdrawals from his pension in addition to the
initial tax-free cash he took at the time. Mr M has told us the monies were used for home 
improvements. Ive thought about this - but Im not persuaded this demonstrates that Mr M 
always intended to access his pension early and would have insisted on going ahead 
regardless.
As I said above, I think it was Portal that planted the seed in Mr Ms head that he could
access his pension benefits early. I dont think the subsequent withdrawals Mr M made were 
planned at the time of the advice. It seems to me that Mr M withdrew further funds because 
he could, by virtue of Portal having made the funds available to him through the transfer. I 
think the further withdrawals flow directly from Portals failure to act in Mr Ms best interests 
by not providing with him with suitable advice and failing to communicate with him in a clear, 
fair and not misleading way as I have set out above. Had Portal emphasised the importance 
of these funds to Mr Ms retirement, I think its unlikely he wouldve insisted on accessing 
them.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded Mr M would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Portals failings. I consider Mr M would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct 
process followed.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr C couldve taken his DB pension benefits without reduction at
age 65. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision.
 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. And taking everything into account, including 
that I consider Mr M is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, 
I think the unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in 
all the circumstances.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requirePortal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman