DRN-1975544
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have treated them 
unfairly. 
Mr T is the lead complainant in this case so, for ease of reference, I will refer only to him 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr T held accounts with Nationwide, which have since been closed by the building society. 
They closed the accounts on 31 January 2020 because of alleged instances of abusive and 
unacceptable behaviour towards their staff by Mr T. Unhappy with this, he referred his 
complaint to this service, as he says Nationwide have lied and damaged his reputation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Nationwide had provided testimony and reports 
from their staff about Mr Ts behaviour towards them in branch, and he was satisfied that 
they had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions by closing his accounts given 
that the behaviour reported was abusive and inappropriate. The investigator also considered 
that the compensation paid by Nationwide in response to previous complaints about 
administrative errors was fair. Mr T disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account state:
Section 78  Current accounts:
We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional 
circumstances. These might include
(d) you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff
There is also a similar provision set out in the terms and conditions that states that savings 
accounts can also be closed in such circumstances.
The instances of abusive behaviour are alleged to have taken place in Nationwides branch 
from 6 January 2020, during visits Mr T made in order to discuss an ongoing complaint. 
Nationwide have provided written testimony from the members of staff that witnessed Mr Ts 
behaviour. This includes, but is not strictly limited to:
Asking personal questions of the branch staff and making inappropriate comments 
about race and ethnicity;
Speaking with an aggressive and intimidating tone;
Refusing to be validated on numerous occasions;
Behaving inappropriately and upsetting other customers, by saying he can find out 
everything about them, for example. 
The branch manager filed an incident report about Mr Ts behaviour and said:
The branch are becoming increasingly concerned with the customers behaviour and racial 
comments towards them, they no longer feel they are able to serve the customer due to how 
uncomfortable and upset he makes them feel. 
As a result, the branch requested that Mr Ts accounts be closed and their relationship with 
him terminated. But Mr T refutes the claims that have been made about his behaviour, and 
says he has proof that the reports from the Nationwide staff are not true, as he has a 
recording of a conversation he had with the branch manager on 6 January 2020. 
Mr T has not provided this service with any such recording. And I have no reason to 
disbelieve the accounts of Nationwides staff. But in any event, the provision of a recording 
of one interaction he had in branch would not, in my opinion, serve to render the testimony of 
the staff as false or unreliable, as the abusive behaviour is alleged to have occurred on more 
than one occasion with more than one staff member. 
It may be a different situation if it was just one persons word against Mr Ts. But in this 
instance, there are multiple accounts from different people. This service does not have the 
ability or resources to cross examine the testimony of witnesses under oath, which means 
we have to take a view based on the papers and evidence provided as to what is most likely 
to have happened. And as I set out above, there is more than one witness to Mr Ts 
behaviour in branch, and he has not provided any persuasive evidence to sufficiently 
demonstrate that these reports are false. 
So, on balance, I therefore consider the reports to be a reliable account of what has 
occurred in branch. And considering the traits that Mr Ts behaviour is said to have been 
characterised by, Im satisfied it can objectively be regarded as abusive, inappropriate and, 
in some instances, threatening. So I do not consider Nationwide to have unfairly exercised 
their discretion to close Mr Ts accounts, as the terms and conditions allow them to take 
such action in these circumstances. 
I note that Mr T has lodged several complaints with Nationwide, which have had different 
final responses. This includes a complaint about his credit card and the service he received 
in branch and over the phone  for which the building society awarded £150  as well as a 
further complaint about a transaction appearing on his account after it had been closed, for 
which he was paid £25 compensation. And having considered the service provided, I 
consider the total amount Nationwide have paid in compensation to be a proportionate 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience that was likely caused by the errors identified. 
As such, and for the reasons given above, I will not be asking Nationwide to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Jack FerrisOmbudsman