DRN-2885464
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that, after they switched products on their existing mortgage with 
Accord Mortgages Limited, they were charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) of 
£10,500 when they redeemed the mortgage shortly afterwards. 
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs R want Accord to unwind the product switch as if they 
had never taken it out, and reimburse the ERC they had to pay.
What happened
The events giving rise to the event began in September 2020. 
On 16 September 2020 Mr and Mrs R had accepted an offer on their house, with a view to 
completing in November. (That sale later fell through, but another buyer was quickly found.)
Mr and Mrs R were on a mortgage product with Accord which was due to expire on 23 
September 2020.
On 23 September 2020 Mr R reviewed the products Accord had on offer. He telephoned 
Accord to ask about overpayments. He was told that an overpayment of up to 99.9% of the 
balance was allowed without incurring an ERC. The same day, Mr R completed the product 
transfer online, on an execution-only basis, transferring their existing mortgage account 
balance of £422.337 onto the new product. 
The product chosen was a 2.59% rate, fixed until 30 January 2023, thereafter reverting to a 
variable rate. The mortgage was on a capital repayment basis over a term of 27 years. 
Clause 7 of the product transfer offer explained that if the entire loan was repaid before the 
end of the fixed-rate period, an ERC would apply. Until 31 January 2022 this was 2.5% of 
the amount transferred (£422,337) and 1.5% if the mortgage was repaid before 31 January 
2023.
There were no restrictions on overpayments. Before completing the product switch, Mr R 
had telephoned Accord and asked about the maximum overpayment. He was told that a 
maximum of 99.9% could be repaid, with a minimum of £100 left on the mortgage account.
On 4 and 5 February 2021 there were a number of telephone calls between Mr and Mrs R 
and Accord. (It appears that this when Mr and Mrs R were about to complete the sale of the 
property.)
First, Mr R requested an account balance, redemption figure and ERC. He said he would call 
back to make a 99.9% overpayment and leave a remaining balance of £100. Mr R called 
again later that day, asking Accord to remove its charge but was told this wouldnt be 
possible unless the mortgage was redeemed, at which point Mr and Mrs R realised that they 
would be liable for the ERC of over £10,500.
Mrs R then spoke to Accord explaining that they wanted to repay 99.9% of the balance with 
no ERC and then have Accords charge over the property removed. Accord confirmed again 
that the charge couldnt be removed without the mortgage being redeemed in full. Mrs R was 
told that if the mortgage was ported, then the ERC would be waived, but the value of the 
new mortgaged property would have to be the same or more than the current one. Mrs R 
was transferred to the sales department to discuss this.
On 5 February 2021 Mr and Mrs R were told that the ERC couldnt be waived. Although 
porting the mortgage product had been discussed, this wasnt possible; Mr and Mrs R 
wanted to transfer the mortgage onto a development plot, but Accords criteria required the 
mortgage to be ported onto a new main residence.
At this point Mr and Mrs R raised a complaint, saying that the product theyd taken out on 
23 September 2020 had been mis-sold, and that Mr R had been given incorrect information 
about being allowed to repay 99.9% of the mortgage, sell the property and incur an ERC on 
only 0.01% of the balance.
Mr and Mrs R also thought it would be fair for Accord either to cancel the product theyd 
taken out on 23 September 2021 and leave them on the old reversionary rate from their 
previous product, or to allow them twelve months to port the mortgage (rather than the six 
months Accord allowed in its porting criteria).
Accord was satisfied that the ERC was clear in the product switch document. Accord also 
provided a transcript of the call with Mr R on 23 September 2020. Mr R had asked about 
overpayments and the adviser had explained to him that as long as 0.01% of the balance 
was left on the account, an overpayment of 99.90% could be made with no ERC charged on 
it. Accord said Mr R didnt ask about redeeming the mortgage during the period when the 
ERC would apply.
In relation to extending the porting window, Accord said six months was much longer than 
most lenders allow, and so it wasnt able to make an exception to this for Mr and Mrs R.
Accord noted it hadnt called Mrs R back on a couple of occasions and paid £150 for this. 
But it didnt uphold any other part of the complaint.
Dissatisfied with Accords response, Mr and Mrs R complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Accord had done anything wrong. He 
thought the ERC was clear from the documents. He was also satisfied that the adviser Mr R 
spoke to on 23 September 2020 had answered the questions theyd been asked. The 
adviser hadnt been asked about whether or not an ERC would apply on redemption, and 
Accord hadnt been told that Mr and Mrs R were in the process of selling the property. 
Mrs R, whos dealt with the complaint throughout, disagreed with the investigators findings. 
Shes made some detailed points, and I summarise below the relevant ones.
Mr R is extremely intelligent and a qualified accountant so if he was confused about when the ERC would apply then the product information isnt sufficiently clear;
he thought the ERC was on the 0.01% of the mortgage balance, not the full amount of 
the product transfer, the difference being £8 rather than £10,500;
they believe there is a hidden catch to this mortgage, because you cant sell your 
property because the bank keeps a charge over it, even if you only owe £100;
Mr R wasnt told on the call on 23 September 2020 that he wasnt speaking to a 
mortgage adviser;
the person he spoke to should have asked Mr R if he was still confused at the end of the 
call;
Mr R was mentally vulnerable at the time he applied for the product switch;
Accord has declined their solutions to the problem, one of which is to extend the porting 
period from six months to twelve months, and they would then switch their other 
mortgage of £625,000 to Accord;
Mr and Mrs R offered to backdate the correct mortgage package of 4.5% (i.e. the 
reversionary rate on their old product) to 23 September 2020;
the purpose of an ERC is to protect the bank against loss of interest payments, so if 
Accord extends the porting period, it would end up better off than if it charged the ERC;
the Financial Ombudsman Service is financed by the banks, leading to a potentially 
biased process;
our website says we should try and mediate a settlement, yet the investigator simply 
sided with Accord by saying it had done nothing wrong;
the fact Accord paid them compensation of £150 shows mistakes on its part.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by explaining my role in this matter, and the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service generally. We are an impartial, independent dispute-resolution service set up by 
Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Although it is correct that 
financial businesses are required to pay a levy and a case fee to us, this ensures that we are 
able to provide a service to consumers which is free of charge.
I confirm Ive read everything provided by Mr and Mrs R and Accord. Mrs R has given us a 
lot of detail about her and Mr Rs personal circumstances, and that of their wider family. I 
have read and taken note of all of this, but I wont repeat the details here. Our decisions are 
published and so its important that I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and 
Mrs R being identified.
I am grateful to Mrs R for the detail shes gone into in explaining the family situation, and 
about her reasons for asking for a final decision. But this issue in this complaint is a simple 
one: is Accord entitled to the full ERC of £10,500, or should it be charged on only 0.01% of 
the account balance?
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs R say they were led to believe by Accord that if 
they paid off 99.9% of their mortgage, leaving just £400 on the account, when they sold the 
property they would only have to pay an ERC of 2.5% on the £400 (so £10) rather than on 
the full amount of the balance transferred on the product switch.Ive looked at the product switch offer. It shows the amount of the product being switched as 
£422,337. The clause relating to the ERC says that an ERC is payable on this amount, and 
is either 2.5% or 1.5%, depending on when the loan is repaid during the fixed-rate period.
It is clear to me from this that if the mortgage is redeemed during the period when the ERC 
applies, the ERC is calculated as a percentage of the full amount transferred, and this is 
stated to be £422.337. Nowhere in the offer or the terms and conditions does it say that the 
ERC is calculated on the balance repaid on redemption.
Im also not persuaded that, when Mr R spoke to Accord on 23 September 2020, he was 
misled about the product. From the call transcript, I see Mr R asked about how much he 
could make by way of an overpayment, and this question was asked. He didnt ask about 
whether or not an ERC would be calculated only on the balance left on the account, and 
didnt tell the adviser he was selling the property. 
As Mr Rs question was answered, I cant see why the adviser would (as Mrs R suggests 
should have happened) have asked Mr R if he was confused. Nor was there any need for 
Mr R to have specialist mortgage advice, as he made it clear he had a general query about a 
product.
In the section which deals with overpayments, it is explained that unlimited overpayments 
can be made. But it also says:
If you repay the loan in full or transfer to another product during the [ERC] period the 
[ERC] stated in the Early repayment section will be based on the original loan 
amount or amount transferred and disregards any payments (including usual 
monthly payments) you make which may have reduced the total amount 
borrowed/transferred. (my emphasis)
Im satisfied that these terms are not ambiguous or unclear. I think if Mr and Mrs R had read 
them, it ought to have been apparent to them that the ERC was calculated on the full amount 
of the loan, and not the account balance on the date of redemption. 
Given this, even though Mr and Mrs R may have made a 99.9% overpayment of their 
mortgage when they were selling their property, it was correct for Accord to calculate the 
ERC on the basis of the full amount borrowed. Accord was under no obligation to remove 
the legal charge on the property until the mortgage was redeemed in full. In any event, it 
would have been up to Mr and Mrs Rs solicitor who was dealing with their sale to explain to 
them that they would need to give their buyer a clear and unencumbered title to the property, 
including removal of the legal charge  and that this would require redemption of the 
mortgage in full.
Having taken out the product in September 2020, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R were bound by 
its terms and that Accord was entitled to charge the ERC in line with the terms and 
conditions which Mr and Mrs R had accepted. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R are unhappy about 
this, and say that Accord doesnt deserve to be paid the full amount of the ERC. But there 
is nothing unfair in a lender calculating an ERC as a percentage of the amount borrowed, 
and this is allowed by the regulator. 
Theres no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to allow Mr and Mrs R to cancel the 
product they took out and revert to the follow-on rate on their previous mortgage product, 
simply to avoid them having to pay the ERC to which Mr and Mrs R agreed when taking the 
product switch.Mrs R has told me that Mr R was vulnerable at the time he agreed to the product switch, 
and has given me reasons for this. I note that this does appear to contradict Mrs Rs other 
points about Mr Rs intelligence and his achievement in securing a prestigious new job at 
around the same time as the product switch. But in any event, there is nothing in Accords 
notes to show it was on notice that Mr R might in any way be mentally or physically impaired 
or that he wasnt capable of handling his finances.
Im satisfied that Accord acted fairly in considering Mr and Mrs Rs request to port the 
mortgage. In line with Accords criteria, this had to be on Mr and Mrs Rs new main 
residence, not the development plot they suggested. I appreciate the reasons why Mr and 
Mrs R wanted the porting window doubled from six months to twelve months, but I dont 
think Accord treated them unfairly in declining their request. By industry standards a 
six-month porting window is generous, as many lenders insist on simultaneous completion 
and those which do allow a porting window will generally only agree to a month or 90 days. 
So although I understand Mr and Mrs R are unhappy their request was declined, I think 
Accord acted fairly.
Accord paid Mrs R £150 for not returning her calls. I think this is fair in the circumstances. It 
was during the time when Mr and Mrs R were trying to sort out the ERC and completion of 
their sale. I think £150 for the poor customer service is reasonable and proportionate to 
Accords error here.
But even though Accord made a customer service error in not returning calls, this doesnt 
mean it has made any other errors. After reviewing everything thats happened Im satisfied 
that the ERC has been correctly applied, in accordance with the terms of the product switch. 
Ive taken on board Mrs Rs comments that the Financial Ombudsman Service should try to 
mediate a settlement for her. But thats only possible where a business has done something 
wrong and we need the business to put things right. As an impartial service, we have to be 
fair to all parties in a complaint  we dont act for consumers, or represent their interests, nor 
do we represent the financial businesses. Where, as in this case, a business hasnt made a 
mistake, its neither fair nor reasonable for us to tell that business to compensate a 
consumer if its done nothing wrong. So although I appreciate Mrs R would like us to ask 
Accord to pay compensation, theres no basis on which I can ask it to.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs R were hoping for. I can see from what Mrs R 
has told us that this has been a very stressful time for her and Mr R, as well as their wider 
family, so I am sorry if my decision adds to their distress. 
From Mrs Rs comments about the Financial Ombudsman Service, I dont expect her and 
Mr R to agree with my decision. If they dont accept it, the decision isnt legally binding on 
them or on Accord, and Mr and Mrs R will be free to pursue their grievances against Accord 
in court, should they wish to do so. I would suggest Mr and Mrs R take legal advice from a 
solicitor before embarking on any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman