DRN-3031523
The complaint
This complaint is about two single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in 2001 and 2002. Mr B and the estate of the late Mrs B say Nationwide Building 
Society mis-sold them the PPI.
I am sorry to see Mrs B has passed away. In the hope that Mr B and the late Mrs Bs estate 
wont mind, I will refer to her as Mrs B in my decision.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out in both 2001 and 2002. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say the PPI was sold to them by post but looking at the information we 
have and based on what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time it seems 
the PPI was arranged for both sales over the phone. 
Nationwide no longer has a copy of the call recordings for either sale  I dont think thats 
unreasonable given how long ago the policies were sold. But it does mean I have limited 
information available, so I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Nationwide has provided the loan agreements which were sent to Mr and Mrs B after the 
PPI was sold to them. Within each agreement I can see the cost of the Optional PPI is 
detailed separately. 
I dont know what was discussed during the phone calls but looking at the agreements it 
seems there was a discussion about the PPI. I wouldve expected Mr and Mrs B to read 
over the agreements and to have had an opportunity to raise any questions they had at 
the time before signing them. So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely 
that Mr Mr and Mrs B knew the policies were optional and they agreed to take them out 
without undue pressure.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B in 2001 and 2002 - so it didnt 
have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and 
Mrs B enough clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was 
right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been for both sales. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. Both policies covered Mr B only so I have 
focused on his circumstances at both sales. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for 
Mr and Mrs B. Although Mr B says he had a medical condition many years before each 
policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition 
exclusion wouldve caused him to change his mind about taking out the policies. I say 
this because the condition was treated at the time and Mr B hasnt told us of any on-
going issues he had because of this condition. Mr B wasnt affected by any of the other 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover.  It also wasnt too dissimilar to what they 
reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were given. There were 
also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems in either 
policy. 
Mr B says he wouldve received sick pay and he had some savings at the time. The PPI 
wouldve paid out alongside this and probably for longer. It also wouldve allowed Mr B to 
conserve any savings they had. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr B and the estate of Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B and the 
estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman