DRN-4269960
The complaint
Miss D has complained about the delay and poor service she received from Covea 
Insurance plc when she made a claim under home insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2020 Miss D unfortunately had to make a claim under her home insurance policy due 
to fire damage from a neighbouring property. 
In July 2022 Miss D complained to Covea. She had been in alternative accommodation (AA) 
and been moved several times. She said the roof to her home hadnt been protected and 
this led to extensive further damage to her home. Due to the length of time that had passed, 
damage to contents and her home was worse, and so more damage had occurred. 
Miss D said she had incurred losses in paying for protection of white goods which were later 
deemed as beyond economical repair (due to the delays) and additional travel costs due to 
the location(s) of her AA. Miss D said the experience and the delays caused led to 
considerable distress and inconvenience for her and impacted negatively on her health. 
In September 2022 Covea upheld Miss Ds complaint and offered compensation of £1,000 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss D asked us to look at her complaint as she didnt accept Coveas offer. She thought this 
didnt address her losses or reflect the impact of Coveas poor handling of the claim had on 
her. 
Our Investigator found that Covea had reimbursed Miss D for additional utility costs - and 
thought the compensation award of £1,000 was reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But he thought Covea should also pay the travel costs Miss D was 
seeking in relation to the location of the AA - and in light of the fact that Miss D was moved 
several times and was in AA for far longer than she should have if Covea had provided a 
better service. 
In June 2023 Covea provided information, which the Investigator responded to and said it 
supported his view that Covea should pay Miss Ds claim for additional travel costs. Covea 
hasnt provided any new information in response. 
Miss D said the issues with the claim are ongoing and she remains unhappy with the works 
that have been done to her home since she moved back in 2022. 
Our Investigator has explained that Miss D will need to put any new complaints since July 
2022 to Covea. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Covea caused extensive and unnecessary delays in its handling of 
this claim. Some delays were outside of its control due to access problems to the 
neighbouring property in order to carry out repairs. But this didnt account for the overall poor 
service Miss D received. 
Although my findings are summarised, Ive read the detailed responses from Miss D. I can 
see from the timeline of events the number of issues and the impact on her of having to 
move to different alternative accommodation several times, chase for responses and 
updates, the upset and worry at having to check her home and find further damage due to 
the delays as her home and her contents deteriorated during this time. This led to further 
works being needed and therefore further delays and inconvenience for her. 
Covea has reimbursed Miss D for the additional costs she paid for utility while in AA. I 
understand Covea says that additional travel costs while Miss D was in AA are costs it isnt 
responsible for. But from the information available I think Miss D raised concerns about the 
limited options available to her for AA, and the fact that she was in AA for considerably 
longer than anticipated, and moved several times. 
So I think a fair outcome is for Covea to pay Miss D £181.45 and - in line with the 
Investigators recommendation - pay interest on this sum from the date the claim closed to 
the date of payment, applying our preferred rate.
The awards which we give for distress and inconvenience are modest. In this case, there 
has clearly been a significant delay in the repairs, outside of the delay caused in accessing 
the neighbours property. Covea accepts that its service fell short here. It is reasonable to 
expect disruption and upheaval for claims like this - where fire or water damage is 
significant. But I think Coveas handling of the claim caused Miss D distress and 
inconvenience over and above what would be considered reasonable. 
Coveas offer of compensation of £1,000 is I think a reasonable sum and in line with awards 
we give for similar circumstances. 
So, with the additional sum of £181.45, I think this is enough to resolve Miss Ds complaint 
up to July 2022. 
If Miss D has new concerns since July 2022, she can raise these with Covea - and if she is 
unhappy with the response, she can ask us to look at any new complaints. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to do the 
following:
- If it hasnt already done so, pay Miss D £1,000 compensation it offered for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
- Pay Miss D £181.45 to reflect the additional travel costs incurred while in AA. 
- Pay interest on the £181.45 from the date the claim was closed and Miss D moved 
back home to the date it pays at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Miss D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman