DRN-4326627
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with MotoNovo Finance Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo).
What happened
In August 2022 Mr P entered into an agreement with MotoNovo for a used car costing 
£13,467. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr P undertook to 
make a deposit payment of £250 followed by 47 monthly payments of £349.32 and 1 
monthly payment of £350.32, making a total sum repayable of £17,018.36 at an APR of 
12.9%.
In February 2023 Mr P, at the original supplying dealerships request, took the car to a 
manufacturers garage, a garage that I will call A, for inspection. An inspection was 
undertaken by A who concluded:
the left front brake pad spring clamp was fractured
a floor under tray insert was missing
the chain tensioner had failed
there was excess carbon in the exhaust gas recirculation pipe, an excess that was 
likely to have been present in August 2022
one of the heat shields required replacement due to damage that was likely to have 
been present in August 2022  
In April 2023 Mr Ps car was inspected by an independent motor vehicle engineer (appointed 
by MotoNovo) that I will call S. S concluded that we are able to confirm that [the car] 
would have been considered fit for purpose at the time of its purchase and of a satisfactory 
quality. This report confirmed the mileage to be approximately 81,000 miles.
Mr P complained to MotoNovo that the car he had acquired in August 2022 under an 
agreement with it was of unsatisfactory quality. As well as explaining the issues with the car 
identified by A, Mr P said there were issues with the wiper blades, locks and spare 
wheel/tyre.
In June 2023 MotoNovo issued Mr P with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL MotoNovo said it wasnt upholding Mr Ps complaint made to it about the quality of the 
car he had acquired in August 2022 under an agreement with it.
In June 2023 and unhappy with MotoNovos FRL Mr P complained to our service.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that Mr P 
had acquired a car that was of unsatisfactory quality, but in respect of damage to a heat 
shield only and not in respect of anything else. And to fairly and reasonably compensate 
Mr P MotoNovo should arrange for the heat shield to be repaired or replaced at no cost to 
Mr P.
MotoNovo agreed with the investigators view, but Mr P didnt. And because Mr P didnt 
agree with the investigators view his complaint has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr P has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions (both at the outset and after the investigators view) in support of his view 
which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr P will 
not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that 
they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr P acquired the car under a regulated agreement, a type of agreement our service is able 
to consider complaints about. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr P entered into. 
The CRA implies a term into the agreement that the quality of goods (supplied under it) are 
of satisfactory quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the time of acquisition.
In Mr Ps case, the car supplied was approximately 10 years old and had covered around 
76,000 miles, so there should have been different expectations of it compared to a brand-
new car.
Ive thought about all the faults Mr P says there is with the car:
wiper blades, locks and spare wheel/tyre
Mr P has provided no documentary evidence in support of these issues, so I cant 
reasonably conclude that these issues made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time of 
acquisition. But for the avoidance of doubt, I would add that in my view wiper blades and 
spare wheels/tyres are simply items that are subject to failure after time, especially after a 
consumer has added 5,000 miles to a cars original odometer reading of 76,000 miles and 
after they have been in possession of a 10 year old car for several months. left front brake pad spring clamp fracture
I dont dispute the existence of this issue. But in my view a brake pad spring clamp is an item 
that is subject to failure after time, especially after a consumer has added 5,000 miles to a 
cars original odometer reading of 76,000 miles and after they have been in possession of a 
10 year old car for several months. Therefore, Im not persuaded that this issue made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality at the time of acquisition.
coolant and/or oil leak
I dont dispute the existence of these issues. But as noted by S this is likely due to one or 
more seals becoming work hardened due to general wear and tear and these seals are 
subject to failure after time. So given that Mr P had added 5,000 miles to the cars original 
odometer reading of 76,000 miles and had been in possession of a 10 year old car for 
several months before these issues were formally identified, Im satisfied I cant reasonably 
conclude that these issues made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time of acquisition.
floor under tray insert missing
This is a non-essential non-structural component of a car designed for engine noise 
reduction, aerodynamics, air flow and protection from dirt water and road wear. So, in my 
view this issue doesnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time of acquisition.
chain tensioner failure
I dont dispute the existence of this issue. But as noted by the investigator timing chains for 
the type of car acquired by Mr P have a life expectancy of 80,000 to 100,000 miles. So given 
that Mr P had added 5,000 miles to the cars original odometer reading of 76,000 miles and 
had been in possession of a 10 year old car for several months before this issue was 
formally identified, Im satisfied I cant reasonably conclude that this issue made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality at the time of acquisition.
excess carbon in the exhaust gas recirculation pipe
I dont dispute the existence of this issue and that A says the build up of carbon may have 
been occurring before Mr P acquired the car. But carbon build up in the exhaust gas 
recirculation pipe is common with diesel engines and is more of an issue as a car gets older 
and more miles are added to the odometer. And again, I cant ignore the fact this issue 
wasnt formally identified until after Mr P had added 5,000 miles to the cars original 
odometer reading of 76,000 miles and after he had been in possession of a 10 year old car 
for several months. So, Im satisfied I cant reasonably conclude that this issue made the car 
of unsatisfactory quality at the time of acquisition.
damaged heat shield
I agree that this issue means the car might have been of unsatisfactory quality at the time 
Mr P acquired it. But under the CRA MotoNovo has one opportunity to repair a fault  that 
makes a car of unsatisfactory quality at the time of acquisition  and MotoNovo has 
confirmed its prepared to do so. So, Im satisfied that it need do nothing further in respect of 
this issue.other matters
Ive considered whether as a result of finding that MotoNovo should have to arrange a heat 
shield repair or replacement that it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct it to 
compensate Mr P further, for example for the time his car has been off the road. 
But in my view the reasons for Mr Ps car being off the road arent as a result of a damaged 
heat shield but for one or more of the other identified issues with the car. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct MotoNovo to compensate Mr P 
any further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance must 
arrange for the damaged heat shield to be repaired or replaced, but it need do nothing 
further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman