DRN-2745277
The complaint
Mr X, a director for a ltd company, B, complains about the service he received from 
Santander UK Plc, while attempting to open a business current account with them.
What happened
Around August 2019 Mr X entered into discussions with Santander about opening a 
business current account for B. 
Mr X explained that as B was fairly new, and the product idea had been patented, he would 
need to generate revenue in order for the business to develop.
Mr X explained that while in a meeting with Santander for a business account he was told by 
the business manager (BM), that hed need to disclose the source of revenue that would 
fund the account. Mr X says that when he explained to Santander how the business would 
initially be funded, he was told that hed need to successfully establish the funding method 
before the account could be opened. Mr X says he was then told that the method of funding 
was considered a high-risk activity, which meant that they werent able to continue with his 
application for a business account. 
Mr X says he was also told by Santander that had the account been opened and was later 
funded in that particular way, its likely the account funds would be frozen due to the high-
risk nature of the activity. 
Mr X says he didnt fully understand why Santander would suggest that he establish a 
funding method in order to have his business account opened, even though the method of 
funding was considered high risk by them.
In August 2019 Mr X complained to Santander. Mr X explained that he wasnt happy with the 
way in which the business account had been refused. Mr X believed Santander were being 
racially prejudiced in their decision. Particularly as hed been informed of the decision before 
having the opportunity to apply for the account.  
On 3 September 2019 Santander sent their final response (FRL) to Bs complaint. They 
didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that business account applications could be 
declined for a number of legitimate reasons.
Mr X wasnt happy with Santanders response, so he brought the complaint to us here. In an 
email to our investigator Mr X said that the point about racial prejudice could be left out of his 
complaint. However, having looked into Mr Xs complaint the investigator didnt uphold it. 
The investigator explained that from the evidence provided he couldnt see that Santander 
had acted unfairly. 
Mr X wasnt happy with the investigators view, so he asked that his complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. And in further contact with our service Mr X explained 
that rather than consider the issue of racial prejudice as part of his complaint, he wanted us 
to consider whether Santanders actions amounted to prejudice in any form. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out its principles of good practice that authorised 
financial firms are expected to follow in their conduct of business. Those principles are also 
representative of good industry practice, in the event a provider isnt authorised. Among 
other things, the principles state that businesses should act with integrity and fairness when 
applying their terms and conditions. In addition, the Equalities Act 2010 provides people 
protection from discrimination and sets out the different ways in which its unlawful; to treat 
someone. So, Ive given careful consideration to whether Santander have applied their policy 
in a way thats fair to Mr X, in relation to his application for a business account. 
When considering whether Santander acted fairly towards Mr X, Ive not considered how 
theyve developed their policy, or whether it should be amended in any way. Thats because 
its not my role to determine what a firms policy should be.
From the information provided its clear to me that Mr X, while representing B, had an 
application for a business bank account with Santander declined. This is evident from what 
Mr X has said and from what Santander have explained in their case summary to us. Having 
considered B had been declined a business bank account, Ive had to think about whether 
Santander acted fairly by doing so. 
Santander have said that when they consider a new business account application the 
business manager (BM) would need to carry out a risk assessment which includes 
understanding the source of funds in relation to the business in question. Santander have 
also confirmed that the method in which Mr X said he was going to fund the account initially 
was considered to them as being of high risk, which means the BM would have had to make 
a referral to the relevant internal support team for further guidance. And it was at this point 
that the support team advised the BM against proceeding with the application. 
Mr X explained why he felt that his chosen method of funding was not high risk and gave 
examples of other, more widely-known businesses that may have used the same method to 
get started. I can see that Mr X feels very strongly about this. And it seems that Santanders 
decision to decline the account on that basis has led to Mr X believing that Santanders 
reason for declining the business account application was somewhat dishonest. 
Its not surprising to me that Santander would have its own policies in place to measure the 
risk of various account funding methods. Mitigating risk is common place in banking, and not 
exclusive to Santander. However, it wouldnt be appropriate, nor would it be reasonable for 
me to comment on how Santander manages its risk or ask them to change their approach in 
some way. As referred to earlier, its not my role to determine what Santanders policy 
should be. So, I wont be doing that here, rather I have considered whether their policy in this 
regard had been applied fairly. 
Based on the sequence of events Im persuaded that Santander had applied their policy 
fairly. I say this because its already been established that the BM was required to refer the 
account application to their internal team. This was because he sought advice on the method 
of funding. When the instruction was given to the BM not to proceed with the account the BM 
relayed this to Mr X. 
To assist in our investigation into Mr Xs complaint Santander contacted the BM in question, 
who explained that he wasnt able to recall Mr X or the situation, and because he used a 
mobile phone at the time had no recordings of phone calls that took place with Mr X, as mobile phone conversations werent recorded.  However, Santander have said that their 
contact notes from that time suggest that around two meetings were had with Mr X in 
relation to the business account, which at the time the BM felt had gone well. This is 
relevant, because the number of meetings suggest that Mr Xs application had been afforded 
a reasonable amount of time for fair consideration. 
From the evidence provided Im not persuaded that Santander applied their policy unfairly. In 
fact, as the decision was made by the internal team, its likely that the decision was made 
with a higher degree of impartiality. So, Im satisfied from the information provided that 
Santander applied their policy fairly during the business account application with Mr X.
Mr X says he feels Santander has shown prejudice towards him given the problems hes 
experienced when trying to open the business bank account. When it comes to allegations of 
prejudice our services remit doesnt allow for us to make conclusions on this. Findings on 
discrimination and prejudice can only be made in court. However, whilst I cant say whether 
Santanders actions amounted to discrimination or prejudice, what I can say is whether I 
think Santander has acted fairly in the circumstances. I acknowledge Mr Xs strength of 
feeling about the entire experience, but having looked at all the evidence, I dont think 
Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr X refers to what he sees as a contradiction made by the BM during the application, about 
his chosen method of funding. Mr X says he was initially told that hed have to establish the 
method of funding in the first instance and was then told that the method was considered too 
high a risk. In their complaint summary to us, Santander provided a similar version of events. 
Im unable to determine exactly why Mr X was told this, however, it doesnt persuade me that 
Santander had acted unfairly. 
Santander provided us with information which shows that after the decision was made by the 
support team not to proceed with the application for B, the BM then sought guidance from 
another senior member of staff about how to proceed. I can see that the BM checked with 
another team to see whether anything else could be done to open the business account. 
Im persuaded that this indicates the BM was trying to get the account open for Mr X rather 
than proactively trying to prevent the application from progressing. Im not persuaded that 
the BMs actions here are an indication that Mr X was being treated unfairly or unreasonably. 
Having given this careful consideration Im of the opinion that Santander has acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr X, and so I wont be asking them to do anything in relation to this 
complaint.
I recognise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr X, however, I hope that it 
helps Mr X to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold this complaint and wont be instructing Santander UK Plc to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman