DRN-2437716
The complaint
Mr T complains that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) failed to cancel his home 
emergency policy after telling them he couldnt afford its renewal.
  
What happened
In November 2019, Mr T phoned Homeserve in order to cancel his policy as he couldnt 
afford the increase in the cost of it. He thought this had happened and didnt receive any 
further communication from Homeserve. 
In March 2020, he noticed that money had been debited from his account and contacted 
Homeserve, who informed him that in total £135 had been taken. It told him that he hadnt 
cancelled the policy. So Mr T immediately cancelled the policy and raised a complaint. 
In its final response, Homeserve said that it was satisfied that the policy renewed correctly 
as its records revealed that Mr T had agreed to call back and either cancel the policy or not. 
As Mr T didnt call back the policy automatically renewed. Homeserve did refund £53.35 as 
the policy was eventually cancelled midterm.  Mr T wasnt happy about Homserves 
response and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that a renewal notice was sent which informed Mr T of the new premium and that 
payment would be taken. She accepted that Mr T did call to cancel but chose to consider his 
options instead. She said that because he had previously made payments by direct debit, he 
would be aware of the process and so Homeserve werent unreasonable in its actions. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator as he said that he had cancelled the policy, and he 
never agreed to pay the increased premium. So money had been taken from his account 
without his permission. Mr T asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 30 November 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 30 December 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents and can see that Mr T had a plumbing and drainage 
policy that auto renewed. This meant that he had to contact Homeserve, if he didnt want to 
accept the renewal price in order to cancel the policy. In these circumstances, Ive had to 
decide whether Mr T told Homeserve that he wanted to cancel his policy. 
Homeserve provided a copy of the call recording, which Ive listened to. During the call, Mr T 
on more than one occasion explained that he couldnt afford to pay the increased premium. 
The advisor offers him two options. The first was the same policy with a lower premium 
costing around £18 per month, which was £4.50 less per month than the renewal quote. The 
second option was a new cover with an excess and a lower premium of around £12.50 per 
month. 
Towards the end of the call the advisor asks Mr T to call back to confirm which of the options 
he wanted to take. The advisor also said that she would make a note of the options offered 
and that he had a few weeks to make up his mind. In view of this, I dont think it was 
appropriate for Homeserve to have cancelled his policy when it hadnt heard back from Mr T 
by the renewal date. This is because the call ended with Mr T saying that he would think 
about the options offered.
But, I am satisfied that Mr T throughout the call, made it clear that he couldnt afford the 
higher premium. And I think that this was why Homeserve offered the same policy but with a 
lower premium. So, I dont think Homeserve acted fairly or reasonably when it renewed Mr 
Ts policy at the increased premium. This is because, it offered the same policy at a lower 
premium and it told Mr T that it would make a note of the options available. So it seems that 
the note made no difference to the way the policy was renewed or administered. 
Given the circumstances, I think its fair for Homeserve to put matters right. 
  
Putting things right
Both parties had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. So in the circumstances, 
my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.
To put matters right, I direct Homeserve Membership Limited to refund the balance premium 
taken of £81.65.
Homeserve Membership Limited should also pay interest on the amounts above, at a rate of 
8% simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Homeserve Membership Limited to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred above, Homeserve Membership Limited must give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much tax they deduct if he asks them for one.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman