DRN-2888508
The complaint
E, a partnership, complains Society of Lloyd's (SoL) has unfairly declined a claim it made 
under its warranty policy.
Mr J, a partner, complains on behalf of E. While he is represented by a solicitor, for ease in 
this decision I will only refer to E and Mr J.
Any references to SoL in this decision are intended to include the actions of its agents. 
What happened
E made a claim under its warranty policy for the breakdown of a wind turbine. SoL reviewed 
the claim and arranged experts to be instructed. The experts found the gearbox had failed 
due to the premature wear and tear of some of the bearings. While that event would be 
something the policy provides cover for, SoL refused to consider the claim further based on 
an exclusion in the policy relating to defects in design. It said the failure of the bearings 
should have been foreseen as there was a design defect in the gearbox. The bearings were 
inadequate to withstand the thrust loads to which they would be subjected to during their 
lifetime.
Mr J disagreed with SoL and provided a further expert report. That report agreed the failure 
of the gearbox was due to premature wear and tear of the bearings. Based on this Mr J 
argued that Es claim had been unfairly declined and asked SoL to provide evidence it had 
obtained of a design defect. SoL maintained its position as its experts had said several 
gearboxes had been identified with this same issue. 
Our investigator looked at the case but didnt think it should be upheld. She thought SoL had 
fairly applied the exclusion to the policy having read both of the reports provided to the 
service. Mr J asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 1 June 2021. I said I intended to uphold 
the complaint, for the following reasons:
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
Having reviewed the policy, Im satisfied it provides cover for breakdown where a part has 
failed prematurely. However, for that to be established it needs to be compared to other 
associated or similar parts. The policy says if no wear and tear is apparent on the other 
parts, the part can be considered to have suffered premature wear and tear.
Having reviewed both experts report, they seem to agree the gearbox failed due to the 
premature wear of the third line bearings. They establish the first and second-line bearings 
are overall in good condition. Based on this, Im satisfied the policy does provide cover for 
the circumstances E wishes to claim for.
For SoL decline a claim relying on an exclusion in the policy, it needs to provide evidence it 
applies. Having considered all of the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded it has 
adequately done so.
SoL has relied on the findings of its experts, this in itself is reasonable. However, it has then 
drawn its own conclusions of what the experts have said, I dont think this is reasonable. 
Having reviewed the expert report SoL has relied upon, among other things, it says the 
following:
From discussion with the specialist machine shop and gearbox repairers we understand this 
is the third identical repair they have undertaken on this type of gearbox in a similar 
application.
It goes on to say:
It has been identified that there are some proposed re-designs to the lubrication system 
involving the reconsideration of restrictors in the injector assembly, but it cannot be 
confirmed that these proposed changes would have prevented the subject damage or 
indeed the previous damaged on similar units. However, it does confirm some design 
modifications should be considered for future use of these gearboxes in this application.
SoL has said in a letter to E that:
..the bearings incorporated into the wind turbines by the designer of the same were 
unsuitable and ultimately failed giving rise to the loss and damage.The failure is therefore 
an obvious example of a defect in design which falls outside the cover afforded by the 
policy.
I dont think SoL has provided sufficient evidence of defective design here. The expert has 
quoted a repairer saying they have seen three gearboxes which have also had premature 
bearing failures. This is a very small proportion of, I assume, the many thousands of units 
that have been produced. And while it appears there are fixes suggested to stop the 
premature wear, this isnt enough to say the design of the gearbox is defective. Similarly, I 
would expect to see some evidence that the gearbox was subject to a recall, with the issue 
being widely known and communicated. I havent seen any evidence of this nature.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied that E has a valid claim for breakdown under the 
policy for the premature wear and tear of the bearings. I think SoL has acted unreasonably 
by applying the exclusion it has for the reasons outlined above.
Im therefore intending to direct SoL to review the claim again in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
As I understand it, the wind turbine has been repaired, so, should the claim otherwise be 
found to be valid, SoL should pay E the cost it has incurred in doing so, less any applicable 
excess. The decline of the claim meant E had no option but to arrange the repairs and 
therefore SoL through its own actions, lost the opportunity to control the repair process and 
the associated costs. SoL should pay what it cost E to repair the wind turbine plus 8% simple 
interest per annum on that amount from the date it paid to the date of settlement. 
SoL is however entitled to avoid the cost of the Hollow Output Shaft mentioned in both 
reports in shaft/line 4 as there is clear evidence this was damaged during installation. This cost would therefore correctly be excluded under the policy as a defect due to poor 
workmanship.
I have also noted that E had some upgrades to the wind turbine completed at the same time. 
As these are unrelated to the breakdown SoL would not be responsible for those associated 
costs.
E also made a claim for income protection. Should the breakdown claim otherwise be found 
to be valid. SoL should also consider the claim for income protection. If this is also found to 
be valid then it should arrange to pay any amounts due with 8% simple interest per annum 
paid from the date it should have reasonably originally made payment, to the date of 
settlement.
E instructed solicitors to represent it, however Im not intending to direct SoL to cover those 
costs. The dispute process is clearly set out in the policy document and was available for E 
to follow, free of charge.
Responses to my provisional decision
SoL said it didnt agree to my provisional findings. It made a point that the manufacturer of 
the wind turbine is no longer trading and therefore unless there was a safety concern there 
wouldnt be a recall.  It says there are known problems with the gearbox of the X series wind 
turbine. It points out that both experts have acknowledged this. SoL also questions why I 
have relied on the evidence of the experts to exclude the costs of the Hallow Output Shaft 
based on the findings of the experts, but I have disregarded their comments when it comes 
to the design issue of the gearbox. 
E responded saying it accepted my decision but would like a contribution towards the legal 
costs it has incurred in this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SoL says it hasnt only relied on the quote by the expert of there having been three identical 
repairs. More that both reports mention issues, - the report E provided mentions the issue is 
consistent with other gearboxes of this type and application. And the report it had 
commissioned, says the damage is a result of the bearings not being able to withstand the 
thrust loads put upon them. It's also questioned why I have accepted the opinion of the 
experts for the Hollow Output Shaft, but otherwise disregarded what has been said. 
I can reassure SoL that Ive considered both reports in detail however the issue here is the 
damage caused by the premature failing of the bearings is covered under the policy unless it 
can be shown an exclusion applies. In respect of the damage to the hollow output shaft, the 
experts have both concluded the damage was due to incorrect installation, therefore there is 
clear evidence this cost wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
It is SoL that has raised the issue of a design fault in respect of the gearbox as this is the 
wording of the policy exclusion. It has suggested that both experts have, in some way, 
concluded this in their findings and points to this being a known issue. However, neither of 
the experts has specifically used that wording or, in my opinion, have gone as far as 
definitely saying that is the case. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I dont think the information available to me goes far enough to definitely prove a design fault.  SoL has not been able to point to or provide 
this service with any wider evidence of the matter being well known in the market, nor has it 
been able to provide persuasive information regarding the number of units impacted, repairs 
being needed etc. So, it is not that I have disregarded the opinions of the experts but rather I 
dont think SoL has adequately established the exclusion fairly applies in this instance. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm that when making my provisional decision I was aware 
the manufacturer was no longer trading. 
Having reviewed everything, Im not minded to change my provisional decision that SoL 
should reconsider this claim. 
E has said that it would like SoL to pay a contribution to its legal costs as it only incurred 
them due to SoL unreasonably declining the claim. I appreciate Es point here however Im 
still of the opinion the dispute process was clear and available to E. I dont think the matter is 
so complex that it needed a lawyer to present it. E had the option of pursuing the complaint 
free of charge, but it made its own decision to incur costs in respect of this. 
Putting things right
SoL should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Should the claim otherwise be found to be valid, SoL should pay what it cost E to repair the 
wind turbine plus 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date it paid to the 
date of settlement. Less any applicable excess.
 
SoL is entitled to avoid the cost of the Hollow Output Shaft mentioned in both reports in 
shaft/line 4 and it would not be responsible for the costs of any upgrades to the wind turbine 
that were carried out.
Should the breakdown claim otherwise be found to be valid. SoL should also consider the 
claim for income protection. If this is also found to be valid then it should arrange to pay any 
amounts due with 8% simple interest per annum paid from the date it should have 
reasonably originally made payment, to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Es complaint against Society of Lloyd's. I direct it to put 
things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman