DRN-3672918
The complaint
Mr K complains that after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy esure Insurance 
Limited didnt pay him enough for his written-off car or pay for all its storage charges.
What happened
Mr Ks car was stolen and recovered in early August 2021. esure decided it was a total loss 
and that the car was worth £25,430, based on the valuations in the national motor trade 
guides. It deducted the £750 policy excess from that sum, the policy premiums Mr K owed it, 
and £1,442 towards the £5,784 payable at that time for storage charges. Mr K challenged 
the valuation and didnt agree that he was liable for any of the storage charges. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He thought the valuation was fair, but he 
thought esure should pay for the storage charges from August 2021, as Mr K had told esure 
at that point about the car being in storage. esure responded to say Mr K had only told it 
about the storage charges in October 2021, so he was liable for them until that point. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines: 
The valuation
I said I thought esure had shown it had followed our approach to valuing vehicles by looking 
at the figures quoted in the national trade guides  which we checked were correct. I said I 
thought it had acted reasonably in offering Mr K the average of the valuations it found, and 
that we dont think adverts are a reliable way of establishing a cars likely pre-incident market 
value. I said in my opinion, esure had acted correctly in deducting from the settlement sum 
the amount Mr K owed it for the policy excess and the remaining premium. 
Storage charges
I noted that initially the car was held by the police, but that Mr K had collected it and had 
chosen where to leave it whilst the claim was validated. That took several months, as esure 
had to wait until October 2021 for the police report and until November 2021 for the cars V5 
registration form. So I didnt think there was any undue delay on esures part. 
I also noted that when Mr K called esure in August 2021 for a copy of his insurance 
certificate, he told the customer services advisor he spoke to that the car was going into 
storage. There was some doubt on her part about whether esures system would allow her to 
send it to him by email, but she took advice and was able to do so. I said there was no 
mention of storage charges and it seemed that Mr Ks only concern was the certificate. 
I said ideally the advisor would have asked where the car was going to be stored and about 
charges, but that I wasnt surprised she didnt. The advisor wasnt from the claims team and 
Mr K only referred to storage in passing. I said I thought most consumers would have asked 
whether upcoming storage charges would be covered  and if Mr K had done that, it was 
likely that the advisor would have directed him to the claims team. If so, the situation would 
have been dealt with then. I said the notes Id seen showed that Mr K didnt tell esure that 
there were charges for storage until he called it on 6 October 2021  and it agreed to pay the 
charges from that point on, which I thought was reasonable. 
I pointed out that a note on esures file showed Mr K told an advisor after the claim was 
validated in December 2021 (when he was asked where the car was) that he thought esure 
had collected it months previously. I said from what Id seen, there was no evidence that he 
ever told esure where the car was, so I couldnt see why he thought it  had moved the car. I 
noted that Mr K had also said he told esure about the car being in storage several times 
during the claim, but that I hadnt seen any evidence of that, either  just the initial reference 
to storage in August 2021 and then the first reference to storage charges two months later. 
I said I was minded to conclude that esure acted reasonably in relation to the cars valuation 
and in the deductions, it made and that it also acted reasonably in paying for the storage 
charges from October 2021 onwards. I said I thought it was fair for esure to say Mr K was 
liable for the charges up to October 2021, so I was minded not to uphold his complaint. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. esure didnt do so. Mr K said 
initially that he was happy with the valuation, but later on he said he thought he should have 
been paid the top valuation shown in the trade guides, as his car wasnt a standard model. 
He said we should check that its high specification was noted when it was valued. Mr K also 
said he thought the reason for his conversation with esures customer service advisor should 
have been obvious to her. He said the sole purpose of the call was to get a copy of the 
insurance document to give to the garage where the car was to be stored, so it could direct 
its charges to esure. He thought the advisor should have asked him questions about storage 
and that there were multiple times during the call when she could have done so.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the valuation, the investigator said in his view that hed checked the correct 
specifications were noted (as well as the cars age, mileage, and condition). I also checked 
that was the case. I think it was reasonable for esure to offer Mr K the average of the three 
guide valuations, as they fell within a limited range and were therefore consistent.
I dont agree with Mr K that it should have been obvious to the customer services advisor 
why he wanted a copy of his insurance certificate. Although he said the car was going into 
storage, he didnt mention storage charges or say the garage wanted the certificate. 
I appreciate that Mr K couldnt find free storage, but some consumers are able to do so  
normally in places offered by friends or family. I think any garage, storage facility or 
individual that had agreed to store Mr Ks car is likely to have asked him for evidence that it 
was insured (against perils such as fire and theft). The advisor may have assumed that was 
why the certificate was needed. But I think the main point is that it was for Mr K to tell esure 
from the outset about any upcoming charges that hed agreed to on its behalf.
I dont think there were multiple times during the call when the advisor could have asked 
questions about storage charges. Mr Ks conversation with her was very short - and in my 
opinion it was fully focused on the insurance certificate. Mr K spent most of the time on hold, 
whilst the advisor checked whether it was possible for her to provide a copy of it to him. It 
seems to me that that Mr K assumed esure would pay whatever storage charges arose, without being asked or even told about them in advance. I dont think that was reasonable, 
especially when esure may have been able to have the car taken to free or cheaper storage. 
As Mr K hasnt said anything that has persuaded me to change my provisional opinion, I 
dont intend to uphold his complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman