DRN-2319029
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with a decreasing term life assurance policy sold to him in 2009 by Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Mr N is being represented in his complaint by his daughter, Miss N. For ease I will refer to 
actions as being those of Mr N. 
What happened
In late 2019 Mr Ns policy came to an end. At the time he expected to hear from Lloyds 
about a refund he thought was due as had happened with previous products he had held. 
When this didnt happen, he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds explained why they thought the policy was suitable for Mr N when it was sold. Lloyds 
also didnt find any evidence that Mr N was told he would get a refund when the policy came 
to an end. 
Remaining unhappy Mr N came to our service where one of our investigators looked into 
what happened. He thought Lloyds made Mr N sufficiently aware of how the policy worked, 
along with giving cancellation rights after the policy started, and that they had asked 
focussed questions before making the recommendation. He also explained that the previous 
accounts held by Mr N were different types of investment and deposit accounts, and not life 
assurance policies. Mr N disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr N that Ive read and carefully considered everything he has submitted 
even if I do not mention it in detail. Ive condensed what happened into a short summary 
reflecting the informal nature of our service. 
Mr N took out the policy in late 2009 alongside a mortgage with Lloyds. The policy is a 
decreasing term life assurance policy. This means that the level of cover decreases over 
time reflecting the decreasing balance of the mortgage. In the event of the death of the 
policy holder the mortgage is repaid leaving the unencumbered property to the surviving 
spouse or to the estate. 
Due to the time passed since 2009, and that the sale was conducted in a branch of Lloyds, 
there is limited paperwork showing what was discussed. Lloyds say they took into 
consideration that Mr N was married with one dependent child at the time. Due to the lack of 
evidence they couldnt be sure of the affordability of the policy, but they note the premiums 
were paid for the term of the policy. The sum assured and the term of the policy match those 
of the mortgage. Lloyds also say that Mr N was provided with information about how the 
policy worked including his right to cancel.
Having considered everything Im satisfied, on balance, that the policy was suitable for Mr N 
in his circumstances at the time. I also think Mr N was provided with sufficiently clear 
information about how the policy worked by both Lloyds and the product provider, and that 
he was given a right to cancel if he was unhappy. 
Mr N says that at the time the policy was sold he was going through a difficult period. Having 
looked at the extensive information Mr N has provided its very clear to me that he was going 
through a very difficult time, and that he had recently experienced a traumatic situation which 
was affecting him. However Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds were aware of this at the time, 
nor have I seen anything to make me think they shouldve otherwise been aware of what had 
happened. So whilst Mr N says that what happened was affecting him at the time, and Ive 
no doubt it was, Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when recommending the 
policy.
Mr N says doesnt understand great English and this is one of the reasons he feels Lloyds 
havent treated him properly. I can understand why Mr N feels this way but having looked at 
everything, including what Lloyds has said about previous financial products held by Mr N, I 
dont think they acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
One of the reasons Mr N complained is that he thought he would get a refund at the end of 
the policy like he did with other products he took out with Lloyds. However the previous 
products were not life insurance products. Mr N took out a term deposit, an individual 
savings account, and he put money into an investment fund. These are all types of deposit 
accounts. The life assurance policy Mr N took out doesnt work like this and there is no 
refund of premiums when the policy ends. Ive seen no evidence Mr N was told he would get 
a refund, and Im satisfied the information doesnt say this either.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that the policy was suitable for Mr N at the time of 
the sale, and that Lloyds sufficiently explained how the product worked. Thats not to say 
that Mr N hasnt been affected by what happened; he clearly has. But having considered 
everything carefully Im persuaded, on balance, that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when 
dealing with Mr N. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman