DRN-4076089
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a marker against her at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In late 2017, Mrs A received two credits into her HSBC account: one for £1,500, and one for 
£685, which she then spent. It emerged that these were the proceeds of fraud.
Mrs A told HSBC that the £685 was money she was expecting from her sister, as her sister 
was coming to the UK on holiday and this was her sisters spending money. She didnt get 
back to HSBC about the £1,500.
HSBC closed Mrs As account and registered a marker at CIFAS.
In 2021, Mrs A explained shed been abroad since 2017 and had just returned. She said 
shed only just found out about the CIFAS marker and the closure of her account. Mrs A 
complained. 
Mrs A told our service that both the £1,500 and £685 was money from her partner in Nigeria 
intended for her upkeep; or alternatively that most of it was for her upkeep and £200 or so 
was for her aunt while her aunt was on holiday in the UK. She said her partner had paid it to 
her aunt, who had forwarded it to Mrs A via a bureau de change. She provided statements 
showing her partner had provided her aunt with money and the aunt had sent some amounts 
on to someone else. But Mrs A said she couldnt show what happened after that as the 
bureau had closed and its owner had disappeared.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis of those statements. HSBC didnt agree, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs A and HSBC a provisional decision on 14 March 2023, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, HSBC were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mrs A had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that shed misused her account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and 
which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided, I currently think there are sufficient grounds for this marker. Ill 
explain why.
HSBC received two independent fraud reports from two financial institutions, showing that 
the £1,500 and £685 Mrs A received had come from two different victims of fraud in the UK. 
The money did not come from Nigeria, nor from a bureau de change, nor from a relative of 
Mrs As. It came from people who were defrauded into sending Mrs A money.
While I have taken into account the statements Mrs A sent, they only show that her partner 
transferred some money to her aunt around the same time, and that her aunt then paid 
some money to another account. They do not show that her aunt forwarded such money to 
Mrs A, or that she intended to pay such money to Mrs A. The account the aunt paid appears 
to be in a third party individuals name and does not seem to relate to a bureau de change or 
to Mrs A. Its notable that Mrs A has not been able to show that any bureau de change was 
involved. And only one of the amounts is similar to an amount Mrs A received  the other 
transfers involve very different amounts to the funds Mrs A received, even when accounting 
for historic exchange rates.
As I mentioned above, the money Mrs A actually received did not come from Nigeria or from 
her family. It came from individuals who were defrauded into sending Mrs A the funds. The 
names and payment references involved do not fit with Mrs As testimony or the statements 
she provided, but do match up to the fraud reports from the sending banks.
Ive considered the possibility that Mrs A received the fraudulent funds by mistake. But thats 
not likely or plausible. Its not likely that a sophisticated fraudster would accidentally give 
their victims Mrs As details not once, but twice  and that both amounts would happen to be 
the same as the amounts Mrs A was expecting from her family. Further, if the fraudulent 
funds were sent to her by mistake, and Mrs As aunt and partner sent her similar amounts 
around the same time, then Mrs A would have received a second lot of around £1,500 and 
£685. But Mrs A didnt receive any other such amounts around the same time.
Mrs As testimony has been inconsistent. At different points shes said the money was for 
her sisters holiday expenses, or for her own upkeep, or mostly for her own upkeep but partly 
for her aunts holiday expenses. And Mrs A doesnt appear to have given any of the money 
to her aunt or sister or spent it on their holiday expenses. Im afraid this makes it very difficult 
for me to take any of Mrs As versions of events as being correct.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mrs A 
couldve knowingly and willingly received and spent the fraudulent funds.
In summary, Mrs A received and spent fraudulent funds. Mrs A hasnt been able to evidence 
she was entitled to the money, its not likely or plausible that she received the money by 
mistake, and her testimony has been inconsistent and implausible. So it seems reasonable 
that HSBC registered the appropriate marker at CIFAS. It follows that it was also fair for 
HSBC to close her account, which they were allowed to do under the terms. This is a difficult 
message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mrs A to receive. But given 
the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im currently unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 April 2023. HSBC didnt add anything further. Mrs A replied, which Ill talk about below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A said she didnt have any other evidence she could provide. But she explained that the 
bureau de change was an individual operating out of a personal account, which she said 
was not unusual in Nigeria. She said he must have paid the money to another UK account 
first, which is why the money then came to her from UK accounts.
However, the fact remains that the money Mrs A received came directly from victims of 
fraud. The victims were tricked into paying Mrs A their own money direct from their own 
funds. As far as I can see, the money did not come from Nigeria first, and there was no 
bureau de change involved. There is no evidence that the individual Mrs As aunt paid was 
acting as a bureau de change, or that they sent  or intended to send  any money to Mrs A, 
and Mrs A did not then receive any payments from Nigeria. Further, the amounts the aunt 
paid do not match up to the amounts Mrs A actually received, even when accounting for 
historic exchange rates.
Mrs A said HSBC should have contacted her about this at the time. But I can see that they 
did. Indeed, they spoke to Mrs A about this back in November 2017, when she told HSBC 
that the money she received was spending money for her sisters holiday in the UK. Mrs A 
also said that when she called HSBC back, she was told there was nothing they needed to 
discuss and they didnt know why theyd asked her to call back. However, Im afraid that is 
not reflected in the record of her contact with HSBC.
Mrs A explained that her memory was limited because of the time thats passed. But while 
I understand where shes coming from, she spoke to HSBC at the time back in 2017 when 
this was all fresh, and even then her testimony was unreliable. For example, she told HSBC 
at the time that the money was for her sisters holiday expenses, but she doesnt appear to 
have then given any of the money to her sister or spent it on her holiday expenses. And Im 
afraid that her testimony has otherwise had such clear contradictions that even accounting 
for the difference in years, I dont think I can fairly rely on it.
Mrs A pointed out that HSBC didnt tell her they were going to add a CIFAS marker. But 
I should explain that they did not need to tell her that.
Mrs A said she was innocent, and was the real victim of fraud here. But Im afraid that based 
on the evidence, Mrs A received and spent fraudulent funds that she got directly from victims 
of fraud, shes been unable to evidence she was entitled to the money, its not likely or 
plausible that she received the money by mistake, and her testimony has been inconsistent 
and implausible  even when she spoke to the bank at the time. Theres no evidence which 
shows or substantiates that she was an unwitting participant in the fraud or that she was 
defrauded herself. So Im afraid I cannot reasonably tell HSBC to remove the CIFAS marker.
Lastly, Mrs A explained that the marker had a big impact on her. But while Im sorry to hear 
about the difficulties she faced, Ive found that the marker was fair. So I cannot fairly tell 
HSBC to remove it, nor to compensate Mrs A for the impact of it. This is a difficult message 
for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mrs A to receive. But given the 
evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other 
conclusion.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman