DRN-2909120
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc Limited handled the 
renewal of their home insurance policy and their related complaint.  
What happened
In November 2020 Sainsburys sent Mr and Mrs H a renewal letter regarding their home 
insurance policy.
On 3 December Mr H rang the telephone number quoted in the letter several times. The line 
kept going dead. He said it took him an hour before he got through to an adviser. The 
adviser gave him a different telephone number to ring in future. They renewed the policy.
Mr H asked for someone from Sainsburys to call him back so that he could complain about 
the problems hed had in calling it. No-one called him.
Just over a week later Mr and Mrs H received two more undated renewal notices. Mr H 
called Sainsburys again because he was worried their policy hadnt in fact renewed. He was 
told the policy had renewed and the complaint was being looked into.
Sainsburys sent two letters saying the complaint was being looked into. It said it had sent a 
final response letter in respect of the complaint on 5 January 2021. It said it had recently 
changed its phonelines. It offered Mr H £20 for the inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt receive this letter. Sainsburys later sent another copy.
As Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the outcome of their complaint, they contacted this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Sainsburys needed to 
do any more.
Since Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have provided a detailed submission outlining what has happened and raised 
19 points which theyd like me to address. Ive read through them and noted everything 
theyve said. But Im not going to comment on each and every point theyve made. Instead 
Ive looked at their dissatisfaction with Sainsburys as a whole in order to decide whether its 
treated them fairly in the way it resolved their complaint. Ive also listened to their phone calls 
with Sainsburys.
I can understand that it would have been very frustrating for Mr H to make several phone 
calls in order to renew his home insurance. I can see from the phone log provided by 
Sainsburys that it took him about 15 minutes to get through to an adviser. Sainsburys has 
said he did have the correct phone number but there was a fault with their lines which has 
since been rectified. This would have caused Mr and Mrs H unnecessary stress and 
inconvenience. 
I appreciate that Mr H thinks Sainsburys should have checked its processes to make sure 
the phone system was working properly after the change. But this was a commercial 
decision for Sainsburys to make. Its beyond the remit of this service to tell Sainsburys to 
change the way it operates. I can only look at the effect on Mr and Mrs H if they havent 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy that no-one from Sainsburys called them, particularly as 
one letter acknowledging the complaint said we will contact you as soon as we can to 
discuss your concerns on this matter". I agree that the use of the word discuss might 
suggest that there would be a conversation. But I can also see that Sainsburys advisers 
explained to Mr H in phone calls that he wouldnt be able to speak to a member of the 
complaints team but any points he wished to make regarding his complaint would be 
forwarded to the complaint handler. Its up to Sainsburys how it handles complaints 
provided that it complies with the relevant complaint handling rules. Im not convinced that 
Sainsburys treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in this regard. 
Mr H isnt confident that his complaint was investigated fully before Sainsburys issued its 
final response. Having looked at the final response letter, I can see that Sainsburys 
addressed the issue of Mr Hs original complaint about the phone system. It referred to an 
investigation. It was up to Sainsburys whether it felt it was necessary to contact Mr H as 
part of that investigation.
Mr H doubts whether Sainsburys sent him the original final response letter to his complaint. 
Based on my knowledge of the way financial services businesses handle complaints, I think 
its more likely that having generated the letter on 5 January, it would have actually been 
sent and its likely that it didnt reach Mr H because it got lost in the post.
Mr and Mrs H feel they were given no other option but to refer their complaint to this service 
if they wanted to pursue it. Sainsburys was entitled to take this stance once it had issued a 
final response with regard to the complaint. So I cant say that it treated Mr and Mrs H 
unfairly in this regard.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H because I know they feel very strongly about the way 
theyve been treated by Sainsburys. But overall I think the compensation of £20 offered by 
Sainsburys was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman