DRN-2691764
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed her to open three credit card 
accounts that were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs B says she opened the NewDay accounts in 2017 and 2018 but it should have been 
obvious that she was in financial difficulties and had a Debt Relief Order. She would like the 
interest and charges refunded and the balances written off. Mrs B says the accounts made 
her financial position worse.
NewDay says the first account was opened in October 2017 and it carried out appropriate 
checks. It says Mrs B declared an income of £17,000 and had limited debts. It also says she 
didnt have any recent adverse information recorded on her credit file. NewDay accepts it 
shouldnt have increased Mrs Bs credit limit on that account in March 2018 from £300 to 
£1,100 as that was unaffordable. Its refunded interest and charges on that account.
NewDay says Mrs B opened two further accounts in July 2018 and it carried out appropriate 
checks. It says both accounts had a credit limit of £450 each and that lending was 
affordable.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld her complaint in part. The 
investigator thought NewDay had carried out appropriate checks on the account opened in 
2017 and any lending was affordable with a modest credit limit. The investigator agreed with 
NewDay that the credit limit increase was unaffordable in March 2018 as there were clear 
signs of unaffordability before the increase. And thought it acted fairly by refunding interest 
and charges.
The investigator thought that the two further accounts were also unaffordable and couldnt 
see how they could be affordable if the increased credit limit some months before was 
unaffordable. The investigator also thought it clear Mrs B had used the new credit limit on 
the first account by using cash transactions which was an indicator of unaffordability. The 
investigator recommended any charges and interest be refunded on these accounts.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and maintains appropriate checks were carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I find that if NewDay accepts the credit limit increase in March 2018 for £800 
was unaffordable, then it must follow that allowing Mrs B to open two new accounts some 
months later, when her financial position had got worse, with a credit limit of £900 must also 
be unaffordable.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit application. 
Those checks will of course vary depending on the amount and type of lending. I can see 
that NewDay did carry out such checks in 2017 when it approved the credit card account 
application. I think it fairly considered Mrs Bs credit file and that her last default was some 
time before and that she declared an income of £17,000 with limited outgoings. So, I dont 
think the lending decision was irresponsible or unaffordable and think Mrs B was given a 
modest credit limit of £300.
There is no dispute here that NewDay accepts that it shouldnt have increased Mrs Bs credit 
limit in March 2018 from £300 to £1,100. I find that was a significant increase at a time when 
there were clear unaffordability signs. Im satisfied that NewDay has fairly accepted it made 
a mistake and acted fairly by refunding interest and charges. And I also think it tried to help 
Mrs B with her financial difficulties.
I have made clear that Im satisfied that if the increased credit facility of a further £800 was 
unaffordable in March 2018 then it follows that to allow two new credit card accounts some 
months later must also be unaffordable. I also think by July 2018 Mrs Bs financial position 
hadnt improved but got worse and that NewDay would have known that by looking at the 
first account. I dont think it matters that NewDay carried out checks on Mrs Bs application in 
July 2018 as it ought reasonably to have simply looked at the first account as it did some 
time later and that ought to have shown any further lending would be irresponsible and 
unaffordable. And some months later Mrs B was unable to repay the borrowing which 
provides evidence for that.
Putting things right
I think that NewDay should refund the interest and charges on the accounts opened in July 
2018 and remove any adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file. It should put her back in 
the position she would have been in if the accounts had not been opened. And it should pay 
8% simple interest on any refund if its greater than the amount Mrs B owes NewDay on the 
second and third accounts. I cant fairly order NewDay to write off any account balance as 
its clear Mrs B had the benefit of the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd to refund any 
interest and charges on the accounts opened in July 2018. If that refund is greater than the 
amount owed, then NewDay should pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the account 
opening until settlement and provide Mrs B with a certificate of tax deducted and paid to Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs. And any adverse information should be removed from Mrs 
Bs credit file in respect of the two later accounts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman