DRN-3221725
The complaint
Miss R and Mr R are unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited wont 
reimburse their unrecoverable costs under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
 
Mr R is the policyholder and Miss R is entitled to bring a claim under the policy. Mr R and 
Miss R have used a representative to bring their complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
mainly refer to Mr R and will ascribe the comments of both Miss R and the representative to 
him. 
What happened
In 2015 Miss R was the victim of a sophisticated scam which involved the purchase of a 
property. Miss R paid for the property but no transfer of ownership took place. She wanted to 
take legal action in relation to this. 
Miss R had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was provided by DAS 
and she made a claim. The legal action being proposed was for breach of warranty, breach 
of trust and a breach of a duty of care. DAS had initially indicated that the claim wouldnt be 
covered as they said the above did not amount to a contractual dispute as required by the 
policy terms. DAS obtained a barristers opinion who concluded that the breach of warranty 
claim should be treated as a contractual dispute. But the same barrister didnt think that the 
claim had the required reasonable prospects of success. DAS said cover wasnt available 
as having positive prospects was a requirement under the policy terms. 
In November 2016 DAS provided a complaint response. Part of the response said: I am 
happy to advise we are able to provide cover for your claim, if you can provide a written 
counsels opinion confirming your claim enjoys reasonable (that is, 51% or above) prospects 
of success It also explained that as the breach of trust and breach of a duty of care arose 
from the same circumstances, they would agree to cover those too in the event of Mr R 
providing a positive counsels opinion of the prospects. The complaint response also 
included referral rights to our service along with a warning that if Mr R wanted our service to 
investigate, he had up to six months from the date of that letter to come to us.
There was some further contact between Mr R and DAS in December 2016 and early 2017 
in which the representative disputed that there werent reasonable prospects of success and 
discussed alternative counsel providing an opinion. During this time DAS offered to pay 
£2,000 for a further counsels opinion but an agreement couldnt be found. DAS had also 
asked the representative for further information in relation to a claim against 
Miss Rs conveyancing solicitor. Ultimately, when this further information hadnt been 
provided, DAS sent a letter in April 2017, formally withdrawing cover from the claim. 
The next contact DAS received was a letter of complaint in October 2019. This set out that 
Miss Rs legal action against the vendors solicitor had been successful. But she had still 
suffered a loss of around £130,000 of unrecoverable costs which she was seeking from 
DAS. She pointed out DAS counsels opinion, that the claim was unlikely to succeed, was 
evidently incorrect and that her barrister (a QC) had advised originally that the claim had 
around 60% prospects of success which was supported by a senior partner at the firm 
representing her. 
DAS responded to the complaint on 4 December 2019, in summary they pointed out that 
they had already responded to a complaint in 2016 and that none of the issues dealt with at 
that time would be revisited. But they went on to explain their position in relation to the 
events that took place after their previous complaint response from November 2016. In 
summary, they didnt agree that they should make any payment. 
In June 2020, the complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
it but didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think DAS had acted 
unfairly in the circumstances. Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
In July 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Rs legal action was successful. But Mr R would like DAS to reimburse the costs 
associated with this that he wasnt able to recover. He would also like to be paid his 
representatives costs of disputing cover with DAS. This is broadly made up of the following 
amounts:
£108,000 of irrecoverable costs in respect of the claim against the vendors solicitor 
W.
£22,196.10 of irrecoverable costs in respect of the claim against Miss Rs own 
conveyancing solicitor P.
Mr R also says that he incurred around £30,000 of costs involved in pursuing DAS. He would 
like DAS to pay him £100,000 (the policys limit of indemnity) towards the costs not 
recovered from W and P in addition to the costs of his representative dealing with DAS, as 
well as interest and any further damages our service deems appropriate.
Ill deal with each element of these costs in turn.
The costs that relate to W.
DAS complaint response from November 2016 made clear that they would cover the 
claim if Mr R provided a written counsels opinion as to the prospects of success for his 
intended legal action. Following on from this, I cant see that a written counsels opinion was 
provided. 
In the correspondence in late 2016 and early 2017 Mr R pointed out that his representative 
was of the opinion that there were positive prospects and that this had been verbally 
confirmed with a senior partner at that firm. I think it was reasonable for DAS to decide not to 
accept this and to insist on written advice. As an insurer DAS arent legal experts 
themselves. I think it is fair for them to rely on legal advice when making decisions about a 
claim. And whilst it isnt my role to assess the quality of the legal advice, Id generally expect 
that advice to be in written form and to set out the reasons for its authors opinion in a clear 
and logical way. I wouldnt generally support an insurer declining a claim based on legal 
advice provided verbally or without giving a reasoned explanation for that position. And 
likewise, I dont think DAS ought to have accepted what Mr Rs representative said without 
them providing a more detailed consideration as requested, particularly when they already 
had unsupportive written advice on file. I can also see that DAS offered to pay up to £2,000 towards the costs of obtaining this 
opinion. Once an insurer has a negative opinion on file, Id commonly expect the cost of 
obtaining another opinion to fall to the insured person. And if that further opinion was 
supportive, Id generally expect the insurer to reimburse the reasonable costs of obtaining it. 
So when DAS offered to part fund this, I dont think that was unfair as it went beyond what Id 
typically expect to see. 
Ultimately, when a written opinion wasnt provided, DAS formally withdrew cover for the 
claim. I dont think this was unfair. DAS had set out that they would cover the claim if 
provided with a supportive written counsels opinion of the prospects. When this wasnt 
forthcoming, they cant hold their file open indefinitely and so I think their decision at that 
time was reasonable. 
In relation to an insured event, Mr Rs policy provides cover for costs and expenses. These 
are specifically defined in the policy as: All reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by 
the appointed representative and agreed by us
Based on this, the costs Mr R incurred after cover had been withdrawn werent agreed by 
DAS. The decision to proceed outside of the insurance cover was one Mr R was entitled to 
make. And the fact that he was later successful, doesnt change my mind that it was fair for 
DAS to continue to insist on a supportive opinion of the prospects of the case. But if he 
wanted to rely on his policy to meet his legal costs, he needed to act within its terms. 
I also note that Mr R received costs from the other side and it is the shortfall between the 
amount received and the total amount spent that he is seeking from DAS. Within its terms 
and conditions, the policy covers (reasonable and necessary) costs that Mr R incurs. But 
here those costs were settled by the other side (on a standard basis). And even if I were to 
agree (which for clarity I dont) that DAS ought to meet Mr Rs costs, this would still be 
subject to an assessment of whether those costs were reasonably and necessarily incurred. 
This is distinct and different to simply being the shortfall in the standard basis costs that were 
paid by the other side.
The costs that relate to P.
In February 2017 DAS asked Mr Rs representative to complete their Claims Management 
Report (CMR) form to enable them to consider a claim against P. DAS say they didnt 
receive this and so no further action was taken in relation to that claim. I dont think this is 
unreasonable or unfair. 
Mr R has to provide evidence and information to support his claim. When he failed to do so, I 
dont think it was unfair for DAS to decline to take any further action. And if Mr R went on to 
incur costs in this regard, these likewise were incurred without the agreement of DAS. 
The costs of pursuing DAS.
Like all regulated firms, DAS have a complaints process following which their customers are 
often (subject to our jurisdiction) able to bring their complaint to our service. There is no 
requirement in either process to use a professional representative. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that there is anything within the 
terms of Mr Rs policy that would enable him to claim the costs of his representative 
complaining to DAS, from them. I also dont think there is an argument to support doing so 
based on fairness. The complaint process is specifically designed to be easy to use, informal 
and different to using the courts. Using professional representation is something Mr R is entitled to do. But I dont think DAS need to reimburse him the costs incurred in his decision 
to do so. 
Summary
Overall, DAS said they would cover the claim if Mr R provided a written, supportive counsels 
opinion on the prospects of success and he failed to do so. Im pleased to hear Mr R 
achieved a positive outcome. But  I dont think DAS acted outside the policy terms or 
unfairly. And so Im not intending to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
DAS responded to say they had nothing further to add. After some administrative issues in 
relation to the receipt of Mr Rs further submissions had been overcome, in November 2021 I 
issued a further provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R pointed out that whilst he is the policyholder, it is Miss R that is the complainant. I 
accept this point, but where Mr R has had some involvement in the process and is the 
policyholder, its not inappropriate for this to be considered as a joint complaint and doing so 
has no bearing on the outcome. 
Mr R further said that DAS first refusal of cover is highly relevant to Miss Rs extant 
complaint. He points out that I must make my decision in relation to all the circumstances 
and he believes this should not be excluded from consideration here. I agree that my role 
requires that I consider all the circumstances of a complaint to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. However, I cannot award redress for a matter which is out of jurisdiction. 
Mr R says that DAS caused delays in 2016, prior to agreeing cover for all aspects of the 
claim (subject to provision of formal written advice from counsel) in their letter of 8 November 
2016. He says that this is further evidence of DAS acting unfairly and unreasonably. Even if I 
were to agree that were the case, Im not persuaded this makes a material difference to DAS 
maintaining their requirement that providing cover was conditional on formal written advice 
from a barrister. 
Mr R believes there are factual inaccuracies in my provisional decision. Specifically, that 
DAS had not been provided with a written opinion on the prospects of success. He reiterates 
his representatives relevant experience (and that of the barrister representing him in the 
litigation) and makes reference to what was written in July 2016 on the Claims Management 
Report (CMR) submitted to DAS indicating prospects of greater than 60%. 
Ive considered this and I dont agree it is factually inaccurate to say that no written opinion 
was provided by Mr Rs representatives. I accept that the CMR recorded that its author 
believed there to be positive prospects and that this was based on their professional 
experience, and the advice of a QC. But there is a difference in the detail and reasons 
provided on such a form and a formal written advice (which is what my provisional decision 
refers to). I think Mr Rs representative is also aware of the difference because of the further 
discussions that took place in early 2017 in which DAS offered to pay up to £2,000 towards 
the costs of obtaining the same. 
Much of the further submissions deal with DAS decision to rely on the barristers opinion 
that they obtained over the comments on the CMR. As set out above, I think that there is a 
difference between the details given on the CMR and a formal written opinion. Mr Rs 
barrister was a QC and DAS was not. But as DAS barrister had given a formal written 
opinion, I think it was reasonable for them to place more weight on this. This barrister would be required to give his advice independently and impartially, so I dont think there was any 
reason based on a lack of neutrality that means DAS couldnt rely on the opinion. 
Ive also considered what Mr R has said in relation to the opinion only addressing the breach 
of warranty claim. DAS accepted the warranty claim fell within the policy and agreed to cover 
the other two claims because they arose from the same circumstances. It doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me for the opinion to focus on what fell within the policy  if that claim didnt 
have prospects, its hard to see why DAS should have covered the other two. I also note that 
the CMR recorded that Mr Rs solicitor thought that a solicitor acting for a vendor was likely 
to be able to show that no duty of care was owed to the purchaser.  
Mr R has disputed that the insurer had a negative legal opinion on file.  My reference to this 
was the barristers opinion obtained by DAS which said that the claim did not have 
reasonable prospects of success.
  
Mr R highlighted part of the policy which says: We may at our discretion require you to 
obtain at your expense an opinion from a lawyer, accountant or other suitably qualified 
person chosen by you and us as to the merits of a claim or proceedings. If the chosen 
persons opinion indicates that it is more likely than not that you will recover damages (or 
obtain any other legal remedy that we have agreed to) or make a successful defence, we will 
pay the cost of obtaining the opinion. 
Mr R has said that DAS was not entitled to rely on this term because he had already 
provided an opinion from two leading lawyers in the CMR. As Ive covered above, Im not 
persuaded that the brief wording in the CMR is sufficiently detailed to qualify as an opinion 
under this term. And if there was more detail to support the views expressed in the CMR, its 
unclear why this simply wasnt provided at the time.   
Mr R says that in January 2017 his representative provided quotes from his barrister of 
£6,500 and £5,000 (plus VAT) in relation to the legal claims against W and P respectively. 
He says DAS were in breach of the above policy term when they were unwilling to pay the 
cost of obtaining the opinion. I can see that DAS confirmed that it only needed an opinion on 
the merits of the claim against W in December 2016. The cost was therefore £6,500 (plus 
VAT).   
The term makes clear that the costs in these circumstances are the responsibility of the 
insured and not DAS and that the suitable person must be agreed upon by both parties. I 
can see that there was some discussion on that point at that time. Mr Rs preferred barrister 
charged £500 per hour arriving at the quotes mentioned above. DAS questioned the need 
both for leading counsel to write the advice and the amount of time it was anticipated would 
be required. They offered to pay up to £2,000 or 4 hours. Alternatively, they said they could 
provide details of their panel chambers who they felt would be able to assist. 
Ive also considered that the representative said the case was so complex that it required 
that amount of time and leading counsel to provide an opinion. But I dont think DAS position 
on this was unreasonable. And importantly, even if it were, the policy terms say that the 
costs fall to the insured in the first instance until a positive opinion is provided. If Mr R had 
instructed counsel, obtained a positive opinion (resulting in the claim being accepted) and 
DAS had declined to pay for all or some of that opinion, that is something that could have 
been considered in more detail. But no such opinion was obtained or provided. DAS were 
clearly willing to contribute up to £2,000 towards the costs of this and Im not persuaded 
Mr R was treated unfairly here. There were several options available to him including making use of an alternative counsel 
to support his position. But ultimately, shortly after these discussions with DAS he chose to 
disengage and only returned to DAS years later when the legal action had concluded. The 
key fact remains that DAS were willing to provide cover subject to Mr R providing a 
supportive written counsels opinion of prospects and this wasnt provided. 
Mr R also disagrees that professional representation wasnt required for dealing with DAS 
and our service. Ive considered this but I dont agree. There is nothing so unusual or 
exceptional about this case which persuades me that Mr R couldnt have engaged with DAS 
complaints process or with our service. And as such, there is no basis upon which I think it 
would be reasonable to tell DAS to consider the costs of the same. Particularly where there 
is no provision in the policy for such costs being covered. As set out above, I could not 
award redress in any event for some of these costs because they are out of jurisdiction.  
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Miss R, Mr R or DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.
DAS responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr R didnt respond to the further 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman