DRN-3972717
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy with the service provided by Santander UK Plc when administering his 
accounts.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr Z and Santander - as this dispute 
has been ongoing for some time. In my decision I wont repeat what is already known to both 
parties. Instead, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching my final decision.
Mr Z held a 123 current account with Santander for a number of years. Under the terms of 
this account, Mr Z pays a monthly fee in return for the account and some additional benefits.
Mr Z said he realised at some point in 2020 that he wasnt receiving the expected interest on 
his account balance. He was also unhappy that he asked for a non-contactless debit card. 
but instead was provided with a contactless card and about a change that took place to a 
savings account.
Mr Z complained to Santander. They initially didnt uphold his complaint. He then referred 
the complaint to our Service for an independent review. Santander then made an offer of 
£100 for the issue of sending an incorrect card to him. Our investigator considered the 
complaint and recommended that the £100 offered was fair - but she didnt recommend that 
the rest of the complaint points be upheld. Mr Z didnt accept the investigators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Given the complexities of this complaint and the issues it raised, as well as disappointingly 
inconsistent information provided by Santander, Ive issued three provisional decisions to 
both parties - June 2022, October 2022 and January 2023. Both parties have since 
responded with additional comments and Santander have made an improved offer to resolve 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill refer to parts of both previous provisional findings as they are still relevant here. Mr Z has 
raised a number of important and serious new complaint points around discrimination and 
the Equality Act. Its my opinion that it would be inappropriate for me to make findings on
those issues - given that Ive seen no evidence theyve previously been raised with 
Santander.
This is because, under the relevant rules that our Service operates under  the financial 
business (Santander) has to have been given a fair opportunity to respond first and issue a 
final response letter where appropriate. The relevant rules can be found at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/8.html , but for ease Ive included some 
relevant extracts below:
DISP 2.8.1
The Ombudsman can only consider a complaint if:
(1) the respondent has already sent the complainant its final response or summary 
resolution communication; or
(2) in relation to a complaint that is not an EMD complaint or a PSD complaint, eight 
weeks have elapsed since the respondent received the complaint;
Should any new issues have since caused Mr Z unhappiness, hed need to speak to 
Santander about these before our Service could formally investigate any new complaint. In 
summary, in my decision the main consideration Ive to make is whether Santander have 
treated Mr Z fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms of his account. At times this may 
mean elaborating on some of the more recent responses from Mr Z to our Service - but it 
shouldnt be interpreted that Im making new findings on issues that Mr Z needs to first raise 
with Santander.
The interest paid on the 123 account
Santander charged Mr Z a monthly fee for this current bank account. In return it had several 
potential benefits. The main benefit thats relevant to this complaint is the opportunity to earn 
interest on the account credit balance  subject to certain eligibility criteria and associated 
conditions.
Ive seen a copy of the key criteria that needed to be met for earning interest. The relevant 
information was contained within a key facts document. This sets out that the account holder 
needs to pay in at least £500 per month and also have at least two active direct debits in 
place. Mr Z has told us that he didnt receive interest when he shouldve - despite meeting 
the eligibility criteria.
It's not in dispute that Mr Z made the minimum payments of £500 each month into the 
account. Whats in dispute is whether or not he met the active direct debit part of the 
criteria.
Whats an active direct debit?
At the heart of this complaint is the issue of a direct debit being cancelled/removed and Mr Z 
subsequently losing out on interest on the account.
The relevant terms of this account dont include a definition of active direct debit. Its 
disappointing that Santander didnt provide our service with an accurate meaning of active 
direct debit from the outset of this complaint. I dont believe this was an attempt (as Mr Z 
has inferred) by Santander to change the story or their rules - rather it was an example of 
carelessness.
At one point our Service was told this meant there needed to be two direct debits regularly 
being debited from the account. At a much later date, Santander have confirmed that active 
direct debit actually means that the direct debit mandate has been set up on the account 
and is ready to be debited/called for by the originator if requested. In effect, a debit didnt 
need to come out each month for each mandate to be deemed active.
Theyve also confirmed that an active direct debit becomes dormant after 13 months of not being debited. So - in effect, this means that a customer can have two direct debit mandates 
on this account, but even if they havent been debited (for a maximum of 13 months) theyre 
still regarded as being active. Around the time period in question, Santander say that Mr Z 
had mandates for council payments and one for a third-party company (B2).
The interest paid on the 123 account continued 
One of the council mandates was last claimed on 30 August 2018. This means that it was 
treated as active for a further 13 months until October 2019. At the same time, Mr Z also 
had another direct debit mandate for B2. It seems that it was cancelled around June 2019.
The issues around how the mandate came to be cancelled have proven to be the most 
contentious part of this complaint.
Mr Z has told our Service that he didnt request for the direct debit mandate to be cancelled. 
Hes recently provided a letter from B2 which states:
We took the last Direct Debit 29/04/19, this was the last payment made and the 
Direct Debit mandate was not cancelled your services came to an end and we didnt 
need any further payments.
Mr Z has further added:
For your information the screenshot is not evidence of any kind, it merely shows an 
agreed amount of £0 to be taken monthly by [B2] to keep my account on file with 
Santander. I think someone at Santander appears to have seen this figure and has 
cancelled the Mandate in error, is the missing reason in their correspondence.
On the other hand, B2 say they didnt cancel it, but Mr Zs services with them had come to 
an end and they didnt need to take any more payments.
Santander have said the direct debit was cancelled due to an AUDDIS 0C (cancellation) 
instruction triggered by B2. Santander recently sent Mr Z an updated letter stating that they 
had cancelled the direct debit - not B2. We clarified this with Santander and theyve 
confirmed it was issued in error. Although disappointing, human error can and does happen. 
I will return to this point later in my decision.
Santander have since clarified that the direct debit cancellation was triggered by the 
originator  not them. Theyve provided copies of internal system screenshots to support 
this. Santander also have explained that if a direct debit was cancelled by them, thered 
need to be a reason entered  but the relevant data field is empty.
Given that two very different explanations have been provided for the direct debit 
cancelation, Ive to make a finding based on the balance of probabilities. That is - what is 
more likely than not to have happened  based on the available evidence.
On balance I find it more likely than not, that it wasnt Santander that cancelled the direct 
debit. I find the explanation that Mr Zs services came to an end and B2 last took payment at 
the end of April 2019 more persuasive than Santander proactively cancelling the direct debit.
I say this because of the supporting screenshots provided by Santander.
Ive noted Mr Zs recent comments to our Investigator that the direct debit was adjusted to 
zero rather than B2 requesting it be cancelled. But the screenshots provided by Santander 
dont support this. Id also add on this point, that direct debits can vary from month to month. A mandate authorises B2 to collect varying amounts from Mr Zs account  but only if hes 
been given advance notice of the amounts and dates of collection.
I understand that Mr Z doesnt accept my findings on this point and should he not accept my 
findings hes free to pursue alternative dispute resolution channels - such as through the 
Courts. Our Service is an alternative, informal dispute resolution Service and Ive to base my 
decision on the available evidence.
What the cancelled direct debit meant
Mr Z was still receiving interest on his balance from June 2019 (when the third-party (B2) 
mandate was cancelled), until October 2019 - when one of the council mandates became 
inactive or dormant - as it hadnt been debited for 13 months.
Mr Z has referred to being told that Santander may have previously paid out interest as a 
gesture of goodwill. I also note Mr Z is unhappy that the branch manager didnt submit a 
statement. But overall, Im satisfied that Santander have investigated Mr Zs concerns 
around this point and regardless of what conversation took place with a branch manager, 
that was their own opinion and my decision is specifically about the circumstances of Mr Zs 
complaint.
Ultimately, what Santander may have done for other customers (when paying interest) 
where issues similar to this have arisen (or for Mr Z in the past) has no material impact on 
my decision here. As Ive not concluded, on balance that theyve done anything wrong 
regarding the cancellation and subsequent interest payment, I wont be directing them to pay 
it. Any goodwill gesture wouldve been at the discretion of Santander and, where relevant - 
the individual branch managers.
I dont find that Santander have treated Mr Z unfairly or not in line with the account terms by 
not paying him interest for the period in question. Its unfortunate that Mr Z had continued to 
pay for an account that he wasnt receiving the full benefits for, but - as stated already, I 
dont find that Santander have done anything wrong with regards to him not being paid 
interest for the entire period hed expected to.
Mr Zs awareness of the interest issue
Ive again taken on board Mr Zs comments that Santander couldve done more to alert him 
that his account wasnt earning interest. In a letter sent on Mr Zs behalf, dated 11 
September 2022, its stated:
he informed Santander that he could no longer manage his account online. 
Santander offered the option of telephone banking. This enabled Mr Z [surname 
redacted by Ombudsman] to check that the amounts in the account met the 
requirements of the 1,2,3 account. Mr Z [surname redacted by Ombudsman] 
considers that the Bank could have alerted him by telephone that there had been 
issues with his Direct Debits so that he could have taken steps to resolve the issue. 
Santander were made aware of his sight problems, and indeed had enabled 
telephone contact to take place to manage' aspects of the account.
In an email dated 11 January 2023 Mr Z said: I should have been informed of their 13 
month rule, so that I may have considered bringing in one of at least a dozen active Direct 
Debits held elsewhere with other Banks.
Whilst its unfortunate that Mr Z seemingly was unaware sooner of this problem, it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect Santander to 1- contact each customer each time they stop receiving interest on their account or, 2- notify customers that a direct debit instruction has 
been cancelled. A reasonable amount of responsibility rested with Mr Z to carefully check his 
account statements to make sure they were accurate and what he expected. This was also 
stated in the key facts document that Mr Z received when opening this account.
Mr Z has also referred to previous problems receiving statements or them being sent to 
wrong addresses. If Mr Z had issues receiving statements, again - a reasonable amount of 
responsibility lay with him to alert Santander to this.
Ive noted Mr Z has previously referred to general problems accessing statements online, but 
he still had other options open to him - including checking his account in branch or 
requesting that statements be posted out to him or using the telephone banking service. Ive 
kept in mind that Mr Z also made the decision to switch to online statements himself in 
March 2019, having previously received paper statements.
Mr Z has also said that Santander owed him a greater duty of care given his circumstances. 
It should be noted that Im not making any findings in this decision on the alleged 
discrimination points that Mr Z has raised  as I havent seen evidence that Mr Z has 
complained to Santander about this point.
However, I have considered how Santander have treated Mr Z overall and Ive carefully 
reviewed the evidence we hold on file and asked Santander about when Mr Z had made 
them aware of the change in his health (eye sight specifically) circumstances. I cant find any 
supporting evidence of when Mr Z did so. Ive found that Mr Z first made us aware in a call 
on 28 April 2021. Its a possibility that given the length of time this complaint has been 
ongoing that Mr Zs memories have faded over time and this is perfectly reasonable. 
Santander have told us:
I have been reviewing this case but have been unable to locate and information 
recorded on our systems regarding Mr Zs [surname redacted] eyesight issues. Ive 
listened to available calls and cannot see it being mentioned. If the customer had 
specifically asked for large print or mentioned he couldnt read correspondence then 
this would be registered on our systems.
Id also remind Mr Z that our Service provided him with a copy of the same key evidence Ive 
relied on when considering his complaint already.
In summary, I dont hold Santander responsible for Mr Z not being aware that he wasnt 
receiving interest.
The maturity of the savings account
Ive considered this point as it was addressed in the final response letter and the complaint 
referred to our Service, but I havent found that Santander have done anything wrong. 
Santander have confirmed that the Monthly Saver would auto renew for 12 months at a 
time, providing a standing order with Santander remained in place. When Mr Z closed the 
123 account, the Monthly Saver account then changed to an Everyday Saver account.
Santander have provided a copy of the letter they say was sent to Mr Z on 31 May 2020 to 
notify him of what would happen. Mr Z also referred separate complaints to our Service 
about the general account opening and closure and I wont comment further on those issues 
in this decision.
The contactless cardIts not in dispute that Santander made an error in sending Mr Z a contactless card when he 
had specifically asked for a non-contactless card. Its disappointing that when Mr Z pointed 
out this error he was initially going to be made go into branch to get the card he wanted.
But Im pleased that Santander were then able to resolve this issue without Mr Z needing to 
go into branch  particularly given the COVID-19 pandemic at that time. Although Mr Z 
accepted the offer, Ive considered this complaint point afresh for completeness.
I find the offer made already in relation to this point to be fair, reasonable and proportionate 
relative to the impact of this error on Mr Z and dont require Santander to do anything further 
with regards to this complaint point.
How have Santander treated Mr Z overall?
Ive considered the service Santander have provided overall and if theyve acted fairly and 
reasonably. At various points the service provided by Santander has fallen below what would 
be reasonably expected. For example, when the complaint was with our Service, they 
provided inaccurate information about what an active direct debit meant.
At another point, whilst our Service was still investigating this complaint, they provided Mr Z 
with wrong information about the circumstances of how the direct debit was cancelled and 
followed this up in writing on 15 November 2022. Whilst earlier in this decision Ive 
acknowledged human error can and does happen - this doesnt detract from the impact of 
this error on Mr Z.
In this specific complaint, Santanders actions will have created frustration, annoyance and 
uncertainty for Mr Z. In my most recent provisional decision I indicated that I intended to 
direct Santander to pay Mr Z £150 for any trouble or upset caused. 
Santander recently made an increased offer of an additional £200 for the service theyve 
provided Mr Z - specifically when giving him inaccurate information. Theyve also explained 
the steps taken on their system to prevent the same mistakes occurring again. 
On balance, Im satisfied that this increased offer is a fair, reasonable and proportionate way 
to resolve this complaint. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc now needs to pay Mr Z £350 to recognise that the service theyve 
provided him has - on a number of occasions, fallen below what he would have reasonably 
expected. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to follow 
my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman