DRN-3359432
The complaint
Mr L complains that TM Advances Limited (TM) lent him money on a high interest loan which 
he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Mr L was provided by TM with a loan on 11 October 2019, for £3,000 repayable at the rate of 
£249 a month over 40 months. He requested a figure for repaying the loan, although as far 
as Im aware there is still a balance outstanding. He also said the interest rate was higher 
than hed been led to believe and that the formula for calculating any refund of interest on 
early repayment is too complex for the ordinary person to understand. He also said the loan 
was unaffordable to him.
TM responded to the points about the interest rate, pointing out that the details are set out in 
his loan agreement. With regard to the formula it said that in line with the regulations under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 it can charge 30 days interest once notice has been given, 
which it was prepared to do. It didnt answer the complaint about irresponsible lending 
directly to Mr L.  
TM considered Mr Ls application, and carried out a credit check, which it went through with 
Mr L. It was satisfied that he had a sufficient disposable income to afford the repayment 
instalments.
Mr L has sent us an up to date credit report and bank statements.
Our adjudicator proposed that TM pay compensation of £150 for its poor handing of his 
complaint. TM agreed to this, though for reasons Ill set out below, and have already advised 
Mr L, I cant make an award in respect of this. 
In respect of Mr Ls complaint, our adjudicator said that TM shouldve realised that this loan 
wasnt likely to be affordable for Mr L  and, based on the information it could see, it 
shouldnt have lent to him.
TM disagreed. It said that any defaults on his credit reports were more than two years old, 
and at Mr L had given an adequate explanation for his adverse credit.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did TM complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required TM to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under the agreement. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so TM had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that TM had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TM to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan was for a significant amount, over a long period. So, TM should have carried out a 
thorough assessment of Mr Ls financial circumstances at the time of the application.
From Mr Ls credit report, it appears that up until about two years prior to the application, 
Mr L had been in serious financial trouble. The report lists twelve defaults, of loans and 
credit cards. Most of these were listed as satisfied. However, a home credit debt that was 
defaulted in 2017 still had a balance of £1,078 and a credit card that was defaulted in 2014 
still had a balance of £782. Additionally a communications debt default of £4,300 was still 
current. Allowing for payments towards these accounts of a minimum of £1,160 out of a 
monthly income of £3,030 Mr L had a high proportion of his income committed to debt 
repayments. The purpose of the loan was for increased holiday spending and repairs on his 
car, not for any debt consolidation.   
Additionally Mr L had nine current accounts listed. Although none were seriously overdrawn, this might have raised doubts as to Mr Ls sources of income.
Ive considered Mr Ls bank statements (from one account) for October to November 2019. 
From those accounts there were at least nine different payday or high cost loan companies 
to whom payments were made, or credits received, none of whom appear on the credit 
report. Ive also noted a high spend, of about £100 a month, on the lottery. Its clear from the 
statements that Mr L was just about coping, though I would observe that only about half his 
income for both months was his salary. The other income for November was the TM loan, 
but it does raise the possibility that he was getting loans from elsewhere.
TM accepted Mr Ls explanation for the adverse credit on his credit report, that he had been 
in difficulty but had resolved that. But in light of the entries on the report I think at the very 
least TMs checks should have alerted it to carry out a more thorough assessment of Mr Ls 
finances. And if it had carried out that assessment I dont think the loan would have been 
assessed as affordable. So I dont think TM made a fair lending decision.
In respect of Mr Ls points about the interest rate and the formula for calculating any rebate, I 
think TM was right to say that the information about the loan and the interest rate and what 
happens if he wanted to settle the loan early are all contained in the loan agreement and 
documents given to him at the start of the loan. The formula is set out in the regulations and 
though its complicated, loan companies are entitled to use that formula to calculate any 
rebate of interest.
I have noted TMs offer to pay £150 for its poor complaints handling, particularly its long 
delay in answering Mr Ls complaint. As Ive explained separately to Mr L, complaints 
handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and I have no power to investigate how it 
handles complaints, or to award compensation in respect of that. That said, as TM has 
agreed to the payment, it should comply with that and make the payment to Mr L directly.
Putting things right
Mr L has had the capital payment, so its fair that he should repay this. So far as the loan is 
concerned I think TM should refund all interest and charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr L as payments towards the capital amount of £3,000.
If Mr L has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, TM should come to a reasonable repayment 
plan with Mr L.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require TM Advances Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman