DRN-3082841
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus) closed its account by mistake. This caused Ks business to close temporarily.
What happened
K runs a restaurant. In December 2020 Cashplus restricted access to Ks business account. 
Cashplus wrote to Ks director, Mr P to ask him to provide them with proof of identity and his 
address. Mr P did this. Cashplus received the information on 14 January 2021. Cashplus 
reinstated Ks account that day.
Ks account was restricted again on 15 February 2021. Mr P contacted Cashplus on 16, 18 
and 25 February 2021 to try to resolve this issue and access the account again, but he was 
unsuccessful. In a call on 16 February 2021 Cashplus said Ks account had been restricted 
again because the documents Mr P had sent hadnt been registered correctly on their 
systems, so the account had automatically been blocked.
Access to Ks account was reinstated on 4 March 2021. Access to online banking was 
available from 5 March 2021. Cashplus wrote to Mr P to let him know this, and to offer K 
£100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr P didnt think £100 compensation was enough. He said the restrictions to the account 
meant that P couldnt pay its bills, wages or buy groceries. So Mr P had to to close the 
restaurant down for a week in February 2021 until he could access the account. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said Ks account terms and conditions say 
that Cashplus may (at any time) suspend or restrict access to an account if they are 
concerned about the security of the account. Our investigator thought Cashplus had acted 
reasonably when it first restricted Ks account in December 2020/January 2021. Thats 
because it needed the information it had asked for to ensure that it acted in line with its 
regulatory obligations. He could see that Cashplus re-opened Ks account on the same day it 
got the information from Mr P. So he didnt think it had made a mistake here.
However, theres no dispute that Cashplus made a mistake when it restricted access to the 
account again in February 2021. Our investigator could see that Mr P contacted Cashplus on 
several occasions after this, but the account wasnt reinstated until 4 March 2021, two and a 
half weeks after it had been restricted.
Our investigator considered the impact of this mistake on K. He said that as the account 
belonged to K he had to think about the impact of the mistake on K, not Mr P personally. He 
considered what Mr P had told him about what had happened in February 2021. Mr P said 
he wasnt prepared to use his personal account to keep the restaurant running as he felt 
strongly that business and personal matters shouldnt be mixed. Mr P also told us that his 
business partner wouldnt contribute anything towards keeping the restaurant running 
around this time. Mr P felt it was unfair that he had to keep the restaurant running while his 
business partner didnt contribute.
Our investigator also considered the fact that the restrictions Cashplus put onto Ks account 
happened at a time when government covid-19 restrictions meant that the restaurant was 
only able to operate a takeaway service. 
Taking the matter as a whole our investigator said that while there was no doubt that 
Cashplus made a mistake when it restricted access to the account in February 2021. 
However, he thought that Mr P couldve done more to mitigate the disruption to Ks business 
at this time. He was conscious that there were a number of factors behind Mr Ps decision to 
close the restaurant in February 2021. He was also conscious that Mr P hadnt been able to 
give us much information about Ks finances around February 2021. Bearing all that in mind 
he thought that the £100 Cashplus offered for what happened was fair and reasonable. Mr P 
disagreed and asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
After this our investigator asked Mr P and Cashplus for more details about Ks income and 
expenditure around February and March 2021. Cashplus provided a statement for Ks 
account. Mr P wasnt able to provide more information about Ks incomings and outgoings 
around this time. He told us that K mostly used cash to run its business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached, although my 
reasons are slightly different. Ill explain why.
Like our investigator I think Cashplus were entitled to restrict Ks account in December 2020. 
Thats because Cashplus needed Mr Ps identity and address information to meet their 
regulatory obligations. I can see that Cashplus removed the restriction on Ks account as 
soon as they received the information it had asked for.
However, theres no dispute that Cashplus made a mistake when they restricted the account 
again in February 2021. Cashplus accepts that they shouldnt have restricted the account 
again then, and that Mr P contacted it on a number of occasions to try to resolve the issue. 
So I need to what the impact of Cashplus mistake on K was.
Our investigator thought that Mr P couldve done more to mitigate the impact of what 
happened on K. He suggested that Mr P couldve used his personal bank account for Ks 
business in February 2021. I dont agree with that. K is a separate legal entity to Mr P and it 
is very likely that the Mr Ps bank wouldve objected to him using his personal account for Ks 
business. However, Im also of the view that Mr Ps decision to close down the business for 
a short amount of time around this time was a result of a number of factors, including the 
attitude of Mr Ps business partner, and the covid-19 restrictions.
In order to try and understand more about the impact of Cashplus mistake on K I asked 
Mr P to give us more information about Ks incomings and outgoings at this time. However, 
he didnt provide us with this information. He said K was a business that operated on cash.
 
I have been able to look at a statement Cashplus has provided for this period. This shows 
some significant payments into Ks account in January and May 2021. But its unclear what 
Ks usual outgoings were. So Ive not been able to get a clear picture of how much money K 
usually made around this time.
 In the circumstances and bearing in mind the sparse evidence that has been provided, its 
unclear to me what the impact of Cashplus mistake on K was. So it follows that I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Cashplus to pay K more compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) should pay K the £100 
compensation it has already offered if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman