DRN-2911316
The complaint
Mr N complains that Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited has been unable 
to provide evidence to show that, when it arranged an annuity for him in 2001, it provided 
details of his medical history to his annuity provider. 
As a result, Mr N believes that the enhancement applied to his annuity may not have fully 
reflected his relevant medical conditions.
What happened
In 2001 Chase de Vere (previously Thomsons Financial Planning Consultants Ltd) arranged 
two annuities for Mr N. 
The annuity this complaint concerns was arranged in May 2001 and was an escalating 
protected rights annuity with GE Life (now ReAssure).
I understand that the second annuity, arranged at around the same time, is the subject of a 
separate complaint.
The quotation for the GE Life annuity describes the annuity as a Personal Pension Annuity 
(Special Rates) and set out that:
this quotation assumes that the annuitant qualifies for our Special Annuity Rates. 
I understand that in 2019 Mr N contacted ReAssure and asked for details of the information 
that had been used to determine the enhanced annuity rate he was offered. Unfortunately, 
Mr N says that ReAssure wasnt able to provide him with:
-a completed medical form;
-figures for the annuity payment before the enhancement was applied; or
-evidence to show that it requested medical information before determining the 
enhancement it was prepared to apply to the annuity 
Mr N has explained that he is concerned that this protected rights annuity could well be 
less than it should have been if my medical history were considered.
Mr N complained to Chase de Vere as it was also unable to evidence that it had provided 
details of his medical history to ReAssure at the time this annuity was arranged. As a result, 
Mr N said he felt his annuity payment has been less than it should have been since 2001 
because medical information was not provided by Thomsons at the time.
Mr N explained that he felt this was  confirmed in the GE Life quotation (Special Rates) 
which assumes qualification without supporting evidence
Chase de Vere did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said, in summary, that based on the 
information available it was satisfied that Mr Ns protected rights annuity was an enhanced 
annuity. It noted that the documentation available showed that the annuity had 'Special 
Rates' applied and was an enhanced annuity.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Chase de Veres response and referred the matter to this service.
He said:
I think that it is quite possible that there is a smaller increment perhaps because I was a 
smoker at the time but I think that it is deplorable the lack of proper accounting of these 
amounts has been allowed by the Regulator. I am not sure whether there is anything which 
can be done now to determine what has taken place exactly amongst the slipshod practices 
of the financial services industry when dealing with large amounts of money belonging to 
other people.
Having carefully considered Mr Ns complaint our investigator said he didnt think he could 
safely conclude that Chase de Vere had acted incorrectly or done anything wrong in this 
matter. As this was the case, he said he didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. 
He explained that when there was limited information available, as was the case with this 
complaint, he was required to consider what was most likely to have happened. 
He noted that Mr N said he recalled providing details of his lifestyle and medical history to 
the financial adviser he dealt with in 2001 in connection with this protected rights annuity. 
Although there are no records showing this information was passed to ReAssure the 
investigator noted that the records did show that the annuity Mr N holds with ReAssure is an 
enhanced annuity. He noted that ReAssure hadnt been able to confirm what medical and/or 
lifestyle information it had taken into account in 2001 when the annuity was arranged. But he 
referred to a Money Facts document from 2001 that described GE Lifes Special annuity 
rates as:
GE Life (Special) Enhanced rates for people who suffer from cancer, diabetes, kidney 
failure, multiple sclerosis, chronic asthma or who have had a stroke or a heart attack. These 
higher rates may also be available for people who are overweight or who have high blood 
pressure or cholesterol levels.
He said he felt this indicated that GE Life must have been provided with details of Mr Ns 
health and medical history as it had offered him an enhanced annuity rate.
Mr N did not accept the investigators view. He said he felt Chase de Vere should have 
made sure that his medical records were passed to GE Life, and that it should have either 
kept a record of this, or provided him with a copy of the records at the time the annuity was 
arranged. 
He said:
The facts remain that I already knew that my annuity payment was improved (enhanced) but 
I still don't know by how much or for what reason. The absence of my medical information at 
Reassure is indicative of a possibility that my annuity payment was determined without it. 
Mainly I cannot accept that you think that CDV (Thomson's Financial Planning in 2001) did 
'not do anything wrong' which is effective absolution for dodgy practices at the time.
Mr N also said he would not agree any findings which do not allocate responsibility/blame 
to the cause, which is the financial services industry.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I cant reasonably uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, has record keeping requirements 
that set out how long businesses must keep records for. The length of time a business is 
required to retain records varies according to the type of financial product arranged, for 
investment products the length of time is usually five years. 
As the annuity Mr N has complained about was arranged in 2001, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to say that Chase de Vere should have retained all the records relating to 
this annuity for nearly twenty years. 
I appreciate that Mr N wants to know precisely what information about his medical history 
and lifestyle was provided to GE Life in 2001, but it appears that neither ReAssure nor 
Chase de Vere hold this information. 
The limited information available shows that the protected rights annuity that was arranged 
for Mr N in 2001 was an enhanced annuity. It is not now possible to say whether Mr N might 
have been eligible for a greater enhancement to his annuity, but I am mindful that 
Thomsons Financial Planning Consultants Ltd (now part of Chase de Vere) was an 
independent financial adviser. It would therefore have been able to get annuity quotations 
from a number of different providers in order to source a suitable enhanced annuity for Mr N. 
However, not all annuity providers offered enhanced annuities. Assessing the impact on life 
expectancy of various medical conditions can be complicated and resource intensive for the 
annuity provider. And it is not the case that, even if GE Life had received the medical 
information that Mr N believes may not have been provided, the enhancement, he would 
have received would have been higher.
Mr N has said he will not agree any findings which do not allocate responsibility/blame to 
the cause, which is the financial services industry. This service is an informal dispute 
resolution service. We determine complaints on their individual merits. We dont have the 
power to fine or censure financial businesses, that is the role of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr N was hoping for, but as there was no 
requirement on Chase de Vere to hold records indefinitely for annuities it arranged I cant 
reasonably say that it has done anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman