DRN-3026094
The complaint
Mr H complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) has refused to 
refund transactions (made using his John Lewis credit card) to a fraudulent binary options 
company (KontoFX). 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr H says:
He saw an advertisement about KontoFX online.  He left his details on their website 
so they could contact him, which they did.  He then set up a trading account with 
KontoFX.
In August 2018, he deposited £250 and then £1,000 to his KontoFX trading account.
The KontoFX brokers presented themselves to him as experienced professionals 
and,  used a lot of tools to push me for payments  used a lot of pushing calls 
and emails to get more and more funds from my pocket.
He did not know the name of his broker, but knew his account was going to be 
upgraded to VIP status.  And that all his trades would be conducted by KontoFXs 
top brokers, which executed supposed derivatives transactions without his approval.
KontoFX told him his payments were safe and assigned his trading account a 
bonus program to guarantee his payment, which prevented the allowance of 
withdrawals when he demanded this.  Moreover, KontoFX suspended his account 
because of security reasons and requested more money to get things back on track.
Although he refused to do the above, KontoFX continued to call and email him 
requesting that he deposit more money into his trading account as,  they would 
have great trading sessions soon.
He decided that KontoFXs behavior was,  extremely unsatisfying with his needs 
, and so did not make any further payments.
Thereafter, Mr H says he researched KontoFX online and discovered that they were 
operating as a scam  KontoFX, as I now know, is a scam merchant video game provider 
simulating investments.  Consequently, Mr H contacted John Lewis requesting a 
chargeback claim be raised so he could try to recover his money.  As John Lewis did not do 
this, Mr H raised a complaint which he later referred to our service.
John Lewis told our service that it did not raise a chargeback claim because it would have 
been out-of-time; and that binary options trades are not covered under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Moreover, it said there is no evidence showing Mr H did not 
receive the services he paid for  and that he had received a refund of £50 from KontoFX.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He thought had a 
chargeback been raised, there would have been no reasonable prospect of success through 
Mastercards chargeback scheme due to the nature of Mr Hs claim.  However, he argued 
that in his view, Mr H did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract, so 
he suggested John Lewis refund Mr Hs money.
Mr H accepted our investigators findings, but John Lewis did not.  In the interest of 
conciseness, I will repeat John Lewiss initial response here, which it has helpfully 
summarised its key points:
The available evidence is that Mr H was told that he may lose his monies and there 
was no guarantee, which is not consistent with the background or conclusions within 
your opinion and does not support a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract;
The purported representations allegedly made to Mr H are not sufficiently clearly set 
out, nor is it shown that these induced Mr H to make each of the Payments;
It is unclear what contractual terms are said to have been breached, or how these 
formed part of the contractual relationship between Mr H and KontoFX.
Our investigator explained why his position remained the same.  John Lewis responded 
stating, in broad summary:
There is no clarity as to the identifiable false statement of fact (so as to found a 
misrepresentation) or breach of contract by reference to KontoFXs actual 
merchants obligations.
It cannot be correct that every customer investing in binary options was told the same 
false statement of fact by each and every binary options company, or that such a 
false representation will have been made in every case.  Nor can it be said that 
contractual arrangements will be the same, as they are demonstrably not.
The merchants contract confirmed that the customers investment can go down as 
well as up and this comes with a high risk of losing money, that they will not be 
responsible for this and it is the customers responsibility to get trading advice 
beforehand.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld for 
reasons I set out below.
Chargeback
I have first considered that Mr H had no valid chargeback rights under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.  I say this because he did not have the evidence needed to satisfy the 
requirements of the scheme rules.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs complaint on the 
basis that John Lewis is liable to him under section 75.  As a starting point, I think it would be 
helpful if I set out what the section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
I will deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn.  
Debtor-creditor-supplier agreement
First, there does not seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement under the 1974 Act.  And, I am satisfied here there is nothing 
that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch as there are three parties 
involved:
1. Mr H (the debtor);
2. John Lewis (the creditor); and
3. KontoFX (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Hs paperwork and on John Lewiss 
business file submissions.
I have noted that ALW*insightstrader were the e-commerce provider for the purposes of the 
first deposit-transaction. John Lewis has not disputed that this breaks the debtor-creditor-
supplier chain, presumably because it recognises they were used as the e-commerce 
provider for KontoFX  creating a four-party agreement.  I have further noted that Mr Hs 
paperwork shows that KontoFX acknowledged this payment and applied it to his trading 
account. 
A transaction financed by the agreement
Secondly, the next consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction is not defined in the 1974 Act, but it has generally been given a wide 
interpretation by the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal.  
Here, Mr H has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
were transactions (which I will call the deposit-transactions) as defined by section 75.Again, to finance, is not defined in the 1974 Act.  An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something.  In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004], Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed, The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of  A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for his purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr H had not used his credit card, he would have 
had to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled him to.  So, it is clear that the deposit-
transactions were financed by the agreement. 
A claim related to that transaction
Thirdly, a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction.  It 
is important to consider what Mr Hs claim is here. It is evident from his testimony and 
correspondence he provided that he feels he was tricked into depositing the payments with 
KontoFX for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr H to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr H does not believe that KontoFX was operating legitimately and believes he was misled 
into thinking they were.
This claim, that Mr H was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions.  The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mr H was told by KontoFX matters that were factually untrue in 
order to trick him into entering into the deposit-transactions, his claim would be for 
misrepresentation.  Or, if the merchant made binding promises to him as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make his claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Cash price value
Finally, the claim must not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.  Here, the cash price of the deposit-
transaction is the value of that deposit-transaction.  It is both the consideration and subject 
matter of the contract. 
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions in this case.
I will therefore go on to consider whether Mr H has a valid claim for misrepresentation and/or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr H has made a claim of misrepresentation by KontoFX  that claim being that 
they represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful, it is necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact, but also that the statement induced Mr H into entering into an agreement. A false statement of fact
If I am satisfied that KontoFX were not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  one in 
which Mr H could never have received back more money than he deposited  then it follows 
that any statements made by KontoFX to the contrary are likely to be a misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr H could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade.  And, I am satisfied that based on Mr Hs account of events and the nature of the 
situation, KontoFX did claim that Mr H could have made money from the trading platform.
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr H known that the trading platform was essentially a scam, designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service  there is really little question, to my 
mind, of him not investing with KontoFX.  Consequently, should I be satisfied that KontoFX is 
not operating a legitimate enterprise, then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that I have found Mr Hs account of 
events both detailed and compelling.  But more than this, it is corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature, but specific complaints against KontoFX.  Because of this Im 
minded to find his account to be truthful.
So, turning to Mr Hs account.  I note he says he saw an advertisement about KontoFX 
online, left his details on their website and then they contacted him.  I also note Mr Hs 
description of the tactics used by KontoFX thereafter.  In particular, he was, amongst other 
things, pressured to make payments, told his account had been upgraded to VIP status and 
that his funds were safe.  However, he says when he tried to withdraw his funds, KontoFX 
told him he could only do so if he waited more time and subsequently requested that he 
deposit more money to enable him to make withdrawals.  Moreover, his account was 
suspended, which KontoFX said was for security reasons.
There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that 
repeat the tactics used by KontoFX.  This does lead me to seriously question whether any 
actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact 
KontoFX offered little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
website dated 27 September 2018.  Although this warning was published post the payments 
concerned, it nonetheless suggests KontoFX may not have been acting legitimately:
We believe this firm has been providing financial services or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why to be especially wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and 
how to protect yourself from scammers.
I have also noted further regulator warnings published on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO):
Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores published a warning on 15 October 2018. 
Financial Market Authority published a warning on 8 February 2019.Malta Financial Services Authority published a warning on 14 May 2019 and noted it 
was Regarding fraudulent or manipulative practices (insider dealing, market 
manipulation, misrepresentation of material information, etc.).
Central Bank of Ireland published a warning on 22 December 2021.
KontoFX is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also several 
online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mr Hs.
I did find it curious that Mr H was given a small refund of £50 from KontoFX and Ive 
considered this very carefully as it does complete the story of Mr Hs overall agreement with 
KontoFX. 
This money appears to have been received randomly (as described in John Lewis 
business file submission). Ive noted this was received after Mr H told KontoFX that he would 
be pursuing chargeback claims against them. In my view, this was a mere attempt from 
KontoFX to muddy the waters of a potential chargeback claim. 
In summary
Taking all the above together, I do not think it is likely KontoFX were operating a legitimate 
enterprise.  So, I am persuaded they made misrepresentations to Mr H.  That is, that they 
were running a genuine enterprise through which he could never have got back more than 
his deposits from the platform.  I am also satisfied that if Mr H had known this, he would not 
have deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Here, Mr H has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished.  
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that KontoFX had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr H to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform; and 
b) To enable Mr H to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr H was not able to use the funds from his deposits on the investment platform.  As he 
stated in his submissions, The brokers presented themselves as experienced 
professionals and executed supposed derivatives transactions without my approval.  
Further, KontoFX prevented Mr H from withdrawing funds from his trading account when he 
wanted to, and also suspended his account.  Taking these points together, I am satisfied that 
KontoFX breached the above contractual obligations.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr Hs loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of his deposits.
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mr H could have recovered his deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: I am satisfied Mr H has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that KontoFX made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mr H could access his money freely and 
earn a profit from his deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: I am satisfied Mr H also has a claim for breach of contract as 
KontoFX breached their verbal promises to Mr H.  Namely, that he could use the 
funds from his deposits on an investment platform, and withdraw funds deposited as 
and when he wished.  This provides another basis for recovery. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, John Lewis should put Mr H back 
into the position he would have been had the deposit-transactions (totalling £1,200) not been 
entered into.  So, he should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts credited to 
him by KontoFX. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct John Lewis Financial Services Limited:
Refund to Mr H the deposit-transaction, less the amounts credited by the supplier;
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement; and
If John Lewis Financial Services Limited deducts tax in relation to the interest 
element of this award it should provide Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman