DRN-2078760
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Southern Rock Insurance Company (Southern Rock) settled a 
claim he made against his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Southern Rock includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E took out a car insurance policy with Southern Rock in October 2018. In September 
2019, he made a claim against his policy. 
During the claim process it came to light that, when he took out the policy, Mr E hadnt told 
Southern Rock that one of the named drivers, Mr Es father, had a motoring conviction. The 
conviction was for speeding in January 2017. Southern Rock explained to Mr E that, if it had 
known about the conviction, it wouldve charged him a higher premium. So, when Southern 
Rock settled Mr Es claim, it did so on a proportionate basis. This meant that it paid 74% of 
the agreed claim, less the excess due under the policy.
Mr E didnt agree and complained to Southern Rock about this. He wants his claim settled in 
full and says:
- He asked his named drivers if they had any motoring convictions but they both told 
him they didnt. 
- His father has never actually driven his car.
- Hed have preferred it if Southern Rock had asked him to pay the additional premium 
but it didnt give him that option. 
- He thinks that the deduction from his claim is excessive due to the value of his car. 
Southern Rock didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this, Mr E brought his complaint to 
us. One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Southern 
Rock had acted unfairly. Mr E didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an 
ombudsman look at the matter.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
As the investigator has explained, where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of 
information important to an insurer, we consider the appropriate legislation including the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. It sets out several considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to do this and, if it did, the options available to the insurer. The 
considerations include whether:
- the consumer took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
- the information was important to the insurer and, if itd been given, would affect 
whether a policy was offered or its terms, known as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
If the policyholder made a qualifying misrepresentation without taking reasonable care then 
this is careless unless they did so deliberately or recklessly. Ive addressed each of these 
considerations in turn.
Did Mr E take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
Its important when looking at this to decide if the insurer asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out. Mr E applied for his policy online and Ive seen the relevant questions. 
In particular, Mr E was asked the following question about his named drivers during the 
application process.
Have they had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, 
disqualifications or bans in the last 5 years?
I think that question was clear and it was for Mr E to take reasonable care in answering it not 
to make a misrepresentation. So it was his responsibility to confirm that the information given 
to him by his named drivers was correct. Mr E answered No to this question. However, this 
wasnt correct  Mr Es father had a conviction for speeding in 2017.
Mr E says he asked his named drivers and, because they said no, this is how he answered 
the question. So, I think Mr E understood what was being asked.
Southern Rock says that, if Mr E had selected yes to the above question, and given details 
of the conviction for his father, the premium wouldve been higher. 
Under CIDRA, a customer is required to take reasonable care when answering the 
application questions. I cant say this happened here.
Did Mr E make a qualifying misrepresentation?
Southern Rock has given our service an extract from its underwriting guidelines that shows 
that it wouldve charged Mr E a higher premium  around £830  if hed answered the 
question correctly. This means that whether Mr Es named drive had a speeding conviction 
was information which was important to Southern Rock and wouldve changed the cost of 
the policy offered to him.
So, under CIDRA, Mr E made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Was the misrepresentation deliberate or reckless?
If a business is able to show that the misrepresentation had been deliberate or reckless, the 
business would be able to avoid the policy, reject the claim completely and, in some cases, 
keep the insurance premium. Here, Southern Rock hasnt tried to suggest this. It accepts the 
Mr E had made a careless misrepresentation.This entitles Southern Rock to consider the claim and, having accepted the claim, settle it 
proportionately. As Mr E paid 74% of the premium he should have been charged, Southern 
Rock is entitled to pay him 74% in settlement of his claim. 
Whilst I can understand why Mr E would prefer to be asked to pay the additional premium 
and have his claim paid in full, this isnt something the insurer is obliged to do under CIDRA.
Summary 
Im satisfied from the information Southern Rock has provided that it correctly applied its 
underwriting criteria and it wouldve offered insurance to Mr E for a higher premium. So, I 
think it treated Mr E fairly and as it would any other customer in his circumstances. This 
means I think Southern Rocks decision to proportionately settle his claim at 74% was 
reached reasonably and in line with CIDRA. The value of Mr Es car  and therefore the 
amount of money deducted from his settlement  isnt relevant to this.
I appreciate that Mr E would prefer to pay the additional premium and receive the full
settlement of his claim but Southern Rock isnt obliged to offer that. I also note Mr Es point 
that his father never actually drove the car. But Mr E chose to place his car on cover with 
named drivers attached. The risk to the insurer and, ultimately, the premium it charges is 
based on these facts. So this isnt relevant here - the premium was based on the fact that Mr 
Es father was insured to do so, whether or not he actually did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Southern Rock 
have treated him unfairly in settling his claim on a proportionate basis.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman