DRN-2342728
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op, have not upheld a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
For The Co-op to support Mr Ws claim there would need to be proof that the work done to 
his car was not done to a satisfactory standard and that thered therefore been a breach of 
contract. 
I dont think the County Court judgement demonstrates that. The Court entered judgement 
against the garage that attended to Mr Ws car. But that was because the garage didnt 
attend and didnt therefore provide a defence.
Mr W says the garage accepted they were at fault but thats not been corroborated, and the 
repairer has been unable to identify the exact reason the steering rack failed. I think it would 
be unreasonable to expect The Co-op to act on Mr Ws testimony alone. Im not therefore 
asking them to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman