DRN-4248099
The complaint
Mr B complains that a used vehicle supplied by Oodle Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Oodle Car Finance) under a finance agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 3 November 2020, Mr B acquired a van with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from
Oodle. Nearly two years later, in August 2022, the brakes failed. He took it to a third-party
garage (TPG) for repairs and they said the vac pump was covered in oil and fibres. Mr B
returned to the supplying main dealer who told him there could be belt contamination
throughout the engine and it might need replacing. Mr B didnt think that was fair and he
complained to Oodle.
Oodle wanted more evidence and an independent expert was instructed to inspect the van in
October 2022. He found (in summary) the oil contained fibrous material as a result of the
timing belt breaking up and the timing belt had failed prematurely due to a manufacturing
issue. 
Oodle accepted the timing belt failure was premature but thought this could have been
avoided if Mr B had the van serviced earlier - in line with the manufacturers recommended
schedule. Oodle didnt uphold the complaint and Mr B referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She noted that Mr B entered into the HPA
for business purposes but she was satisfied we could look into the matter (as the amount of
credit provided was under £25,000 and the finance agreement was regulated). The
investigator didnt think the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applied  because Mr B wasnt
acting as a consumer  but she considered the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (SGA) is relevant 
and the van should have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The investigator didnt think a three and a half year old van with just under 29,000 miles on
the clock would need a replacement engine in the normal course of events  even with a 
missed service. She was satisfied the expert considered the belt failure was premature and
due to a manufacturing fault. She thought there was probably a fault present at the point of
supply and the van wasnt reasonably durable as a result. She recommended the complaint
should be upheld and Oodle should arrange and pay for the van to be repaired (within a
reasonable timescale) and refund any monthly payments made (in full) for the time the van
was off the road  for loss of use. She considered Oodle should also pay interest on any
refunds plus an additional £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience and remove
any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.
Oodle said the expert assumed the van was properly serviced so it told him about the
missed service and obtained supplementary report. As far as its relevant, the expert said
Service intervals, particularly on a working vehicle.are essential to avoid premature wear
toengine components, particularly items such as the wet timing belt used on this make and
model. We are also aware that the colour of the engine oil can acquire a greyish tinge which
would indicate wear to the wet belt. If this had been detected at a scheduled service
appropriate action or intervention could have been instigated thereby avoiding the
consequential catastrophic engine damage.
Oodle thinks an experienced mechanic would probably have noticed a change in oil colour if
the van had been serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations and appropriate
action could have been taken to avoid engine damage so its not liable.
The investigator accepted the expert acknowledged that things might have been different if
the issue had been detected. But she was satisfied the van had a manufacturing issue 
present at the point of supply. She remained of the view it was probably of unsatisfactory 
quality when Mr B got it and Oodle should take the steps recommended to put things right.
Oodle disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In summary, Oodle
accepts the timing belt failed prematurely but thinks it shouldnt be held responsible as:-
wet belts are a service item that require routine checks because of the possible mix 
of fuel in oil whereby diesel particulate filter (DPF) regeneration cannot complete
causing oil contamination  and this is standard on all EU6 vehicles, especially in
low mileage operation because this will happen more often, as is the case here;
Mr B failed to maintain the van properly - a service was recommended at the last
MOT but he refused and he also had work done by a non-manufacturer franchise (the
TPG) before taking it back to the main dealer for checks;
the quality of third party work cannot be substantiated and the TPG should have
provided better advice around the belt issue  in which case the manufacturer might
have agreed to a warranty repair, including a replacement engine, to stop further
foreign particles causing problems, as is standard practice;
the problem is not durability  it can only be related to maintenance - the
manufacturer has refused to provide a replacement engine or assistance on the
grounds this is a service related oil based issue, it is open to Mr B to take this up with
the manufacturer and, if the service history is available, the manufacturer may re-
consider;
lack of correct servicing means theres no way to tell if there was a fault  thats what
routine servicing is designed for and properly trained technicians know what to look for - 
given its known that this can be a fault;
most finance documents stipulate that it is up to a borrower to take care of goods and 
undertake services in line with manufacturers recommendations to mitigate problems so 
Mr B may be in breach of his agreement and he made no effort to mitigate his losses -
he didnt contact with Oodle when the issue first occurred, in which case Oodle would
have recommended he contact the manufacturer; and
the investigator based her view on the balance of probabilities and the experts
choice of words such as could are consistent with that.
Having considered the available evidence, I was inclined to uphold the complaint but my 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators and I was minded to reach a slightly 
different outcome overall. I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings 
and comment further before I made my final decision so I issued a provisional decision on    
8 June 2023. My provisional findings are set out below (in italics) and these form part of my 
final decision.  
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
My role here is to consider the evidence provided by both parties, without taking sides, and
decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances of this
particular complaint. In doing so, I must have regard to relevant law and industry guidance,
amongst other things.
Oodle supplied this van under a HPA which is a regulated consumer credit agreement and
our service is able to consider complaints relating to it. I agree with the investigator that the
CRA doesnt apply here, given Mr B acquired the van for use in the course of his business
and he doesnt meet the definition of a consumer under that legislation. The investigator
refers to the SGA in correspondence. I dont think that legislation applies either but,
ultimately, it doesnt make much difference. Im satisfied the Supply of Goods (Implied
Terms) Act 1973 (SGITA) applies in these circumstances and this legislation provides
broadly similar protection - meaning Oodle was required to ensure that this van was of
satisfactory quality when Mr B got it.
The level of quality thats considered satisfactory varies according to individual
circumstances. Its generally considered reasonable, in the case of a used vehicle, to take
the cost, age and mileage at the point of supply into account. This van was first registered in 
March 2019, it had about 6,000 miles on the clock when Mr B got it and the cash price
was nearly £23,000 at that time. I think a reasonable person would accept that such a
vehicle would probably have some parts that are worn and would need replacing sooner or
later  which is reflected in the lower price paid in comparison to a brand new van. But
theres also a reasonable expectation that a vehicle will be relatively durable - taking into
account its age, price and mileage at the outset.
What went wrong?
There seems to be no dispute that the timing belt on this van failed in August 2022  at just
over 28,800 miles  causing the distribution of fibres and the engine needs to be replaced.
Oodle accepts the timing belt failure was premature but considers it isnt responsible
because 
the issue might have been prevented if Mr B had the van serviced in line with the
manufacturers recommended schedule; and/or
Mr B took the van to a TPG who didnt fix it properly/made things worse by failing to
deal with the problem and advise Mr B accordingly.
The impact of failure to service in line with the manufacturers recommended schedule
I have not seen a copy of the recommended service schedule for this model. Oodle says
(and Mr B doesnt seem to disagree) it should be serviced every two years or 25,000 miles,
whichever comes first. I havent seen any documentary evidence of the vans service history
either. Oodle reports it was last serviced at 4,000 miles in or about September 2019 and,
again, Mr B doesnt seem to take issue with that.
I can see the van had just over 28,000 miles on the clock when it broke down in August 2022
so it hadnt accrued an additional 25,000 miles since the previous service at that stage. Mr B
says he planned to have the van serviced in November 2022 so he may have been waiting
until the 25,000 miles mark was reached. But, I accept more than two years had passed
since the van was last serviced when it broke down, so it hadnt been serviced within the 
timescale recommended by the manufacturer.
I have gone on to consider the impact of this missed service. Ive seen nothing to show (and
I dont think its suggested) that manufacturers recommended service schedule required thetiming belt to be checked specifically or replaced at this point. The expert says it would
usually be much longer before this part would need to be replaced. And Im satisfied the
timing belt is not something that would routinely be considered a service item in a van of this
age and mileage.
Oodle accepts the failure of the timing belt was premature but argues that the fault might
have been detected had the van been serviced as recommended - because this may have
caused a change in oil colour which would have been a red flag for an experienced
mechanic. I accept the expert mentions this possibility in his supplementary report - where 
he says, if discoloured oil was present and detected at a service it could have meant the 
issue was dealt with before the engine was damaged. The expert doesnt suggest however 
that any such discolouration would definitely (or was even likely to) have been present and
picked up at this particular stage of servicing.
According to the manufacturers service schedule the van should have been serviced in
September 2021 (two years after the previous one). I can see Mr B took the van to a main
dealer about six months after that - in March 2022 at just over 24,700 miles - for an MOT
and the main dealer reminded him then that a service was overdue and carried out a vehicle
health check (VHC). The VHC form completed at the time displays the word green beside
the cambelt (timing belt) and theres no reference to any oil discolouration in the paperwork.
I think the MOT would have included an oil check and its unlikely the main dealer would
have failed to mention any significant change in oil colour if it had been present at the time.
So, I consider it is unlikely a service undertaken in September 2021- or in March 2022  
would have found any sign of the timing belt issue. The expert doesnt say how long it would 
take from the belt starting to fail for the oil to become discoloured and Im not persuaded, on
balance, that undertaking a service as recommended is likely to have prevented the
problem.
The role of the third party garage
Im satisfied that Mr B wasnt required under the HPA (or anywhere else) to have this van
maintained by a main dealer. It looks as if he took the van to the TPG in August 2022
because his brakes had failed and I dont think that was unreasonable. Mr B told Oodle
(according to its contact notes) that the TPG found fibres from the timing belt where they
shouldnt be and told him this could be the result of a known manufacturing defect.
Im not certain what work (if any) the TPG carried out at this stage. I understand the
manufacturer may have issued a technical bulletin to its main dealers about this potential
issue but I cant fairly criticise the TPG if it wasnt aware of that. Ive seen correspondence
from the main dealer that suggests repairs were attempted by the TPG but the expert found
no evidence of recent repairs when he inspected. He said any work undertaken was
investigative only and he makes no criticism of the TPGs actions  which Id reasonably
expect him to include if he thought this was relevant.
I am not persuaded that it was wrong of Mr B to take the car to the TPG when he did. Ive
seen no compelling evidence that the TPG provided poor advice or workmanship at that
time. And I am not persuaded that anything the TPG did or didnt do caused the engine
damage.
Was the van of satisfactory quality?
Like the investigator, Im satisfied the independent expert identified a specific manufacturing
fault here that would have been present when Oodle supplied this van to Mr B. For the 
reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded that the failure to service the van strictly in line with 
the manufacturers recommended schedule and/or the involvement of the TPG caused or 
failed to prevent the engine damage. Im minded to find the van was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied and Ive explained below what I think Oodle should do now to put 
things right.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator its fair for Oodle to arrange for the van to be collected and pay
for the repairs required due to the premature failure of the timing belt to be undertaken within 
a reasonable time.
Ive seen an estimate from the main dealer that suggests work costing over £1,700 was
found to be required when the van was checked in October 2022. This doesnt include the
cost of a new engine however - and theres reference to additional items such as tyres, for
example, which seem unlikely to be related to the timing belt issue. Im also not clear if the
brake repairs needed were caused by the premature part failure. I would be grateful if the
parties could provide details of the work required as a result of the failure of the timing belt
(including costings) if possible, in response to this provisional decision.
Mr B says the van has been off the road since 17 August 2022 and Im minded to find Oodle
should refund any monthly payments made from that date to reflect his loss of use. Ive also
seen evidence that suggests he may have paid for repairs/diagnostic reports from both the
TPG and the main dealer and for the van to be recovered - but I only have one invoice from
the main dealer for £252. I dont think Mr B would have incurred these expenses if Oodle
hadnt supplied a faulty vehicle. And Im minded to find he should have any relevant costs
refunded - if hes able to provide proof that this was incurred. I also find think its fair that
Oodle should pay interest on any refunds and remove any adverse information from his
credit file.
Mr B makes some reference to lost earnings in his correspondence but he hasnt provided
any evidence of that. Its open to him to do so in response to this provisional decision and Ill
take this into account when I make my final decision. Mr B may wish to note that, in order to
reasonably hold Oodle responsible for any such losses, Id have to be satisfied that these
were the direct result of being supplied with this faulty van - taking into account his obligation
to mitigate his losses (which might include steps like using alternative transport, if available).
Im satisfied that Mr B has been put to a good deal of distress and inconvenience as a result
of being supplied with this faulty vehicle and Im minded to agree with the investigator its fair
and reasonable for Oodle to pay him £400 compensation for that.
Responses to the provisional decision
I invited the parties to consider what Id said and let me have any further comments or
new information by 29 June 2023. I said Id consider all the evidence available after that and
make my final decision. Mr B didnt reply and Oodle provided detailed submissions including 
comments from the dealer and further evidence. It considers my provisional conclusions are 
flawed because (in summary)  
the manufacturers system (which it said was evidenced by an accompanying 
screenshot) sets the vans service schedule at one year annual inspection (or 
12,500 miles) followed by the two year oil service which was directly intended to 
detect any issue or oil dilution, especially where the customer is a low mileage user 
like Mr B - as low mileage users tend to fail a lot more DPF regenerations, and 
cause oil dilution which in turn can cause belt de-lamination;
there are no known manufacturing defects to justify the conclusion that there was a 
defect here - this van was built outside of any field service actions for a previous 
known issue on older built units, Mr Bs model as no current actions required because the manufacturer changed the service intervals to cover any further risk of 
oil dilution;
the expert cannot be certain what work was done by the TPG (or be satisfied with its 
quality) if he didnt take off the oil sump to inspect; 
during the routine VHC for preparation of vehicles for sale, the supplying dealer 
checks the quality of the oil, this also constitutes the annual inspection and includes 
the annual inspection if needed and, if there is any suspicion of contamination, it 
would be investigated and a warranty claim would have been made which was in the 
dealers interest;
the belt breaking down into fibres is directly linked to failed DPF regeneration which 
in turn dilutes the oil and causes the belt to de-laminate and with enough de-
lamination the belt would then let go, this is absolutely fundamental to the belt letting 
go and not necessarily a manufacturing fault. 
Some of these points were new and Id seen nothing to show that Mr B was told that low 
mileage use may adversely affect the van, for example, so I asked for a bit more information. 
Oodle responded with more evidence and further comments from the supplying dealer. In 
summary, the dealer considers Ive taken Mr Bs side here and ignored the facts and it says:-
the belt failed when it shouldnt have due to lack of proper maintenance and possibly 
a poor repair - Mr B said the TPG replaced the oil pick up as part of a repair, this is 
not a service item, it should really only be replaced as part of other repairs and the 
vehicle should not have been used further;
older models were mentioned in previous correspondence because this was once a 
known issue but Mr Bs van was manufactured later - or the manufacturer would 
replace the engine without asking for a service history;
service intervals were changed according to build date meaning the original service 
interval for this van hasnt changed and the manufacturer requires 12 months 
inspections to detect any relevant issue before it arises;
Mr B should have followed the manufacturers required service schedule and there 
was no reason to tell him why - it would be similar to saying if you run out of coolant 
the head gasket would likely fail.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. Ive considered everything carefully and Im 
not persuaded to change my mind by the comments made or the additional information 
provided. Ive seen nothing to indicate that this part would have been checked specifically at 
the missed service or show that Mr B was made aware of any particular risk to the timing 
belt if the service was delayed or missed. I dont think its reasonable to compare failing to 
top up coolant (or a similar well known and/or routine maintenance item) with what 
happened here. 
Satisfactory quality includes an element of durability. I think some vehicle components can 
be expected to perform without any significant issue for a reasonable period of time in the 
normal course of events and a reasonable person would expect this particular part to last 
considerably more than 29,000 miles. Im satisfied (and Oodle accepts) the timing belt failed prematurely here. And, for the reasons Ive set out already, I think this was due to an 
inherent defect. Im not persuaded it was because the car wasnt serviced strictly in line with 
the manufacturers recommended schedule - or due to anything the TPG did or didnt do. I 
remain of the view its more likely than not this van wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr B and I think it is fair and reasonable for Oodle to put things right. 
I asked the parties to comment on repairs  in terms of whats required and cost. Neither 
party has supplied a breakdown of the work needed  or commented on the redress set out 
in my provisional decision or provided any new information or figures for me to consider. I 
note the supplying dealer says, as far as it is aware, the van needs a new engine but I cant 
be certain about that from the evidence Ive seen. I also gave Mr B the opportunity to provide 
evidence to support a claim for lost earnings but he hasnt sent anything else.
Taking everything into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions.  
I remain of the view its fair for Oodle to arrange for the van to be collected and pay for any 
repairs needed as a result of the timing belt failing prematurely and provide refunds and 
compensation as set out. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Oodle 
Financial Services Limited to do the following, to put things right:-
1. arrange for the van to be collected and pay for the repairs required as a result of  
the premature failure of the timing belt - which should be undertaken within a 
reasonable time;
2. refund any monthly payments made from 17 August 2022 until the van is 
repaired;
3. refund the cost of any vehicle recovery, repairs and diagnostic checks that Mr B 
paid for as a result of the timing belt failure - on proof of payment;
4. pay interest on the refunds referred to above, at 8% simple a year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
5. pay Mr B an additional £400 compensation for his associated distress and 
inconvenience; and
6. remove any adverse information from his credit file.
If Oodle considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman