DRN-3791018
The complaint
Mr H complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his claim when his car broke 
down, under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
When driving home from work Mr H says his car lost power. He managed to pull over and he 
contacted UKI. He says the road was very busy and this was a very stressful experience. 
An engineer attended and reset the cars computer to clear the error codes that were 
showing. The engineer drove the car around the immediate area. The car reportedly drove 
without any issues or warning lights coming back on. So, Mr H was advised to continue his 
journey. 
Mr H didnt think this was safe to do. He was concerned the car could breakdown again, and 
as the road was very busy this could be dangerous. He asked for his car to be towed to a 
garage. He says he waited over four hours for UKI to decide whether his car could be towed 
or not. UKI initially said its engineer could drive behind him to make sure there were no 
problems. Mr H didnt think this was the right option. 
Mr H made several calls to UKI to try and arrange a tow. He found the situation very 
frustrating when having to go through the circumstances several times and wait in long hold 
queues. Mr H was told a tow would be provided, but this decision was later reversed. 
Mr H says he eventually decided to drive the car home, albeit reluctantly. He describes how 
he found this very stressful in case his car broke down again. When he took his car to the 
main dealer it couldnt find the cause of the fault that had occurred. Mr H says this is 
because UKIs engineer had wiped the fault codes. He didnt want to risk driving the car with 
an undiagnosed issue and so sold it to the main dealer. Mr H says he did so at a loss. 
In its complaint response UKI says its engineer acted correctly. The cars computer was reset 
and was found to be driving fine after this. It says it offered to follow behind Mr H to allay his 
concerns. It says it shouldnt have offered to tow his vehicle, as this isnt something its policy 
provides for in these circumstances. But it did offer £125 compensation for some customer 
service and communication failings. 
Mr H didnt think this was a fair outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says UKI has acknowledged issues with its 
communication and service standards and provided fair compensation for this. He didnt 
think UKIs engineer behaved unreasonably in clearing the fault codes to get Mr Hs car 
running again.  
Mr H disagreed. He thought UKI should pay for the loss he incurred when selling his car and 
compensate him for the impact its poor service had on both him and his wife. He asked for 
an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him. I understand 
he has been distressed by his experience. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see from Mr Hs testimony that he was satisfied with the time taken for an engineer to 
initially attend when his car broke down. He explains there were warning lights displayed on 
his dashboard. The engineer attached a device to his cars diagnostic port. From here the 
system was reset. This removed the error codes that had been displayed and the car then 
ran as normal. The engineer drove the car around for a short period and no issues were 
noticed. 
Ive seen an internal email from UKI in which it asked its engineering team whether the 
action taken at the roadside was appropriate. The email says the car was running as normal 
after the engineer reset the system and still was. It says the car couldve experienced 
something that triggered the response Mr H reported. It gives an example of the car having 
been driven through a puddle. The email says cars are run by computers and that, just like 
your computer at home sometimes they need a reset. It says if there had been a major fault 
this would have returned straight away. The engineer that looked at the information relating 
to Mr Hs breakdown thought the car had experienced a minor computer glitch, which had 
been reset and not returned. 
Ive read the information Mr H provided from the main dealer he took his car to after the 
breakdown. I note his comments that the garage wasnt able to identify the fault(s) the car 
had experienced as the codes had been cleared from the system by UKIs engineer. As a 
result of this he decided to sell his car to the garage. He says he wasnt satisfied the problem 
had been resolved, and he didnt want to run the risk of breaking down again.
I can understand that this experience was distressing for Mr H. Particularly as he was 
worried his car might breakdown again. But having considered what happened, I dont think 
UKIs engineer has been shown to have behaved unreasonably. 
Mr Hs car was running after the system was reset. I think the engineering teams response 
that a fault code would reappear, if there was a fault, is persuasive. From what I understand 
the main dealer wasnt able to identify a fault  the indication being that the issue was 
resolved by the system reset. 
Ive read Mr Hs policy booklet to understand the cover in place. The terms say that it will 
come out to attend a broken-down vehicle. If it, cant get it going it will then arrange for a 
recovery of the vehicle. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs view that the appropriate thing to do was to tow his car to a garage. 
But this isnt what his policy provides for when the vehicle is running and able to be driven. I 
accept Mr H considers his car wasnt safe to be driven. But the information provided by UKIs 
engineers says it was. Ive read the information from the main dealer. But I dont think this 
shows that the action taken during the recovery was incorrect.
Ive thought about Mr Hs concern that the fault codes were cleared, and this information 
couldnt be provided to the main dealer. I can see that the codes were recorded and later 
provided to Mr H. However, this was after he had sold his car. I cant see that Mr H 
specifically requested this information. It could be argued that UKI couldve been more 
proactive in finding this information and providing it to Mr H at an early juncture. But from what I understand Mr H sold his car to the main dealer shortly after the breakdown. I cant 
see that he requested the codes specifically, or that he informed UKI that he was selling the 
car because of this. 
Im sorry Mr H felt he could no longer drive his car, and the only option was to sell it. But I 
cant reasonably conclude that UKI is responsible for this or any loss he made when selling 
his car. 
I can see from Mr Hs testimony and the records provided by UKI that he asked for his car to 
be towed to a garage. Conflicting information was given to him about this. He also spent a 
long-time making calls and repeating the circumstances of the breakdown. I can understand 
that he found this frustrating and upsetting. I think its fair that UKI apologised for this and 
paid him £125 compensation.
In summary I dont think UKI behaved unfairly when responding to Mr Hs breakdown. Its 
standard of communication and customer service couldve been better. But I think it acted 
fairly by apologising and paying Mr H £125 compensation. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman