DRN-1762794
complaint
Mr B and Miss B complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
declined their home insurance claim for storm damage to their roof.
background
Mr B and Miss B made a claim on their home insurance after two hip tiles blew off their roof 
during a storm. AA appointed a surveyor, and after inspecting the damage he declined the 
claim.
The surveyor reported that two hip tiles had fallen from the roof, three were loose, and none 
were secured correctly. He said the hip tiles on both elevations needed to be removed and 
re-bedded. However, he found no storm damage to the roof. He concluded that the mortar 
holding the hip tiles had gradually broken down over time, due to freezing and thawing of 
moisture. He noted that whilst the recent weather had highlighted there was an issue, it 
wasnt the cause of the deterioration.
Mr B and Miss B complained about the claim decision, but AA maintained its position. They 
referred their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators, 
but she thought AA had fairly declined the claim. Mr B and Miss B disagreed, so their 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means 
I have determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
  
I have re-assessed Mr B and Miss Bs complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind.
The damage was reported at the time of storm Ciara, and AA has provided weather records 
which show 67mph winds were recorded at a nearby weather station on the day in question. 
Tiles being blown off a roof is also typical of the damage caused by a storm. Therefore, Im 
satisfied the first two conditions have been met. 
However, on balance, Im not persuaded the third condition has been met, i.e. that the storm 
winds, though very strong, were the main cause of the damage. Ill explain why.The surveyor reported that the hip tiles were loose because the mortar had deteriorated. He 
also provided comprehensive photos to support his observations. Mr B and Miss B havent 
provided an opposing expert opinion, and Ive not seen any reason to doubt the surveyors 
conclusions. So, I accept the mortar had deteriorated, and the hip tiles hadnt simply lifted 
and broken free from a secure fixing. I also consider it unlikely that winds would loosen all 
the hip tiles along a roof by breaking sound mortar, without causing any other damage to 
other parts of the roof. Here, no other storm related damage was found.
I accept it wasnt apparent to Mr B and Miss B that the hip tiles were loose before the storm, 
and the tiles havent moved during other periods of bad weather. But that doesnt mean the 
mortar hadnt deteriorated and was adequately securing the tiles. I consider it likely that the 
winds on other days simply werent strong enough to move the tiles.
Mr B and Miss B say there werent any issues raised in the survey they had completed when 
they bought the house in 2016. I havent seen the survey, so I dont know if the condition of 
the mortar was specifically considered, but in any event, Im not persuaded the mortar 
wouldnt have since deteriorated in the years that followed.
Mr B and Miss B say similar damage occurred to other properties in their area that has been 
covered under insurance claims, but thats not something I can take into consideration here. 
Im not considering the decisions of other insurers or on other properties. I dont know the 
damage that occurred, the policy terms that applied, or the reason those claims were 
accepted  and simply because another insurer covered a claim, doesnt mean AAs 
decision was wrong or unreasonable.
Having considered all the arguments made, Im more persuaded by the expert opinion of the 
surveyor, than anything Mr B and Miss B have told us. On balance, Im persuaded that the 
mortar holding the hip tiles had deteriorated over time, and this was the main cause of the 
tiles falling, and others becoming loose. So, whilst I accept the wind was a contributing 
factor, based on the information available, I consider it likely the storm winds simply 
highlighted an existing problem. Im satisfied this cause of damage isnt covered.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Miss B. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman