DRN-2022267
The complaint
Mr W says Tilney Financial Planning Limited (Tilney) did not provided annual review 
meetings he was entitled to for his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), which it 
managed and serviced from around 2015/2016 (after it took over the previous firm that had 
serviced it from 2012). 
His specific claim is that had all the meetings happened he would have  and/or should have 
 learnt about and/or been advised of the cheaper execution only alternative service that 
was available; he says Tilney informed him about this alternative in 2019 for the first time; 
and that it was never mentioned in any of the suitability reviews conducted previously. 
Mr W seeks a refund of the annual service fees he incurred for the SIPP between 2012 and 
2019.
What happened
Tilneys position on the complaint is mainly as follows:
The basis for the discretionarily managed SIPP was Mr Ws objective, at the outset, 
for retirement planning in the form of a pension fund, actively managed in a risk-
controlled environment, that reflected his Adventurous Attitude to Risk (ATR). The 
result was consolidation of his pre-existing pension funds into the SIPP which, at the 
time, was subject to a single blended charge  1.43% of combined investments or 
2% where their value was below £200,000. He was aware of this.
In 2018 the charge was unbundled and the overall cost for portfolios valued under 
£200,000 remained at 2% but this was expressly split into an Annual Management 
Charge (AMC) of 0.75%, a Platform and Custody Fee (PCF) of 0.4% and a Service 
Fee of 0.85%. Mr W agreed to this unbundled charging structure at the time.
In terms of service provided, suitability reviews were carried out in January 2013, 
January 2016 and October 2019, and there was a meeting arranged for April 2014 
which had to be cancelled. In addition, ongoing service was provided for the 
processing of several withdrawals from the SIPP over the years and in 2017 a 
conversion of income drawdown arrangements was carried out. 
Overall, it has delivered servicing to the SIPP and the associated fees have been 
known to and agreed by Mr W at all relevant times. It has no record that he 
previously indicated his objectives had changed so there was no cause to discuss its 
execution only service. That service was mentioned in the 2019 meeting only 
because he expressed concerns about the fees he was paying at the time. However, 
as a gesture of goodwill it has offered him a refund of a full years service fees 
(covering September 2018 to August 2019).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. 
The investigator provided detailed reasons for this conclusion and, in the main, they were  
there is no evidence to suggest an execution only service should have been recommended 
to Mr W in 2012, given that the opposite (active discretionary management) is what he 
wanted and agreed to; the 2012 suitability report was transparent on the bundled charge and 
gave notice that the arrangement would cost more than what he paid previously (but with the 
prospect of higher returns); the report recommended annual reviews and it is clear there 
have been missing annual reviews; however the issue to determine is whether (or not) they 
would have made a difference to Mr W retaining the SIPP management service (inclusive of 
the advisory service) or changing to the execution only service (which would not have 
included the active SIPP management he wanted); there is no evidence that the 
management service was unsuitable for him; furthermore, he did not need to be advised that 
he did not need an advisory service, he was either inclined towards self-servicing (and self-
managing) his SIPP or he was not; if the former, he could have asked for the execution only 
service at any time, without needing advice to do so and regardless of the missing reviews.
Mr W understood the investigators reasoning but disagreed with the outcome. He 
maintained that a consequence of the missing reviews/meeting was that  no discussion 
took place of the pros and cons of an execution only service, and of the potential benefits of 
 moving his portfolio to such a service; he maintained that fees and charges were not 
transparent since Tilney took over, until it explained them in its complaint response letter of 
November 2019; he considers that had he known in 2015/2016 (when Tilney took over) of 
the charges breakdown given in this letter he would have opted for the execution only 
service back then; and Tilneys goodwill offer falls short of resolving the matter for him.
The investigator provided detailed responses to the points raised by Mr W and, in the main, 
he pointed out that records of the few reviews that were conducted do not show that Mr W 
raised concerns about charges until 2019; that the service charge did not become unbundled 
until 2018 so the breakdown Mr W has referred to did not exist when Tilney took over in 
2015/2016; that overall there appears to have been no reason why Tilney would have 
suggested the execution only service to Mr W without cause to do so at the time; and that he 
considers Tilney has made a more than reasonable goodwill offer.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reached the same conclusion drawn by the investigator for reasons broadly similar to 
those he presented. I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Tilneys account of Mr Ws objective in 2012 is consistent with the contents of the financial 
review report the previous firm presented to him in that year. A copy of that report has been 
shared with this service and it confirms that his objective was retirement planning in the 
context of consolidating his previous pension plans into a single pension that was 
professionally actively managed. His adventurous ATR is also reflected within the report. I 
have not seen evidence that Mr W disputed this objective, or report, at the time so, on 
balance, I consider it reliable.
As the investigator noted, information about the bundled charge was given to Mr W in the 
report, alongside notice that he would be paying more than he previously did  for the 
prospect of better performance and risk management, and for the benefit of professional 
management of his pension. 
Notably, there is a part of the report which informed him that the management service would 
not be suitable for him if he wished to manage his pension himself or if he wanted the 
cheapest investment solution. Whilst this did not constitute an explicit reference to an alternative execution only service, I consider that it constituted enough notice  alongside 
the confirmation that he would be paying higher charges than he previously did  that there 
was a cheaper alternative to what the firm was recommending. Mr W was therefore aware of 
this in 2012  or, he ought reasonably to have been aware of this  and I have not seen 
evidence that he enquired further into it or into what the report said about managing his 
pension himself and/or the cheapest investment solution.
Overall and on balance, I find that both professional management and self-management 
options were presented to Mr W in 2012; that his objective was consistent with the former 
and not the latter; that this directly influenced recommendation of the discretionary 
management service for his SIPP; and that he made an informed decision in favour of that 
service. The implications arising from this are that he cannot reasonably claim to have been 
unaware of a cheaper alternative at the time or, arguably, thereafter; that the previous firm 
(which Tilney subsequently took over) had no cause to explore, with him, the execution only 
alternative service; and that, unless and until his objective or preference for management 
style changed there would have been no cause for the previous firm or Tilney to suggest the 
execution only alternative service.
No evidence of a change in objective/preference exists in the reviews that were held in 
January 2013 and January 2016. Handwritten review meeting notes, from the previous firm 
in 2013, have been shared with this service. I have not seen cause to doubt reliability of this 
document and none of its contents refer to a change of Mr Ws professional active 
management objective. The same applies to the review letter sent to him on 20 January 
2016, which mentioned the review meeting held with him on the 14th of that month, which 
confirmed there were no significant changes to his circumstances with regards to the 
discretionary management arrangement and which confirmed that the arrangement 
remained suitable for him. 
At any time during and in between these years, Mr Ws awareness  from 2012  that the 
arrangement was more expensive than what he previously had and that a cheaper (and self-
management) alternative existed ought reasonably to have prompted him to inquire into the 
execution only service if that is what he wanted. Evidence indicates that he did not want that 
at the time and did not so inquire. In the absence of such a desire and/or of notice to the 
previous firm (or Tilney) of such a desire, I am not persuaded that either firm was obliged to 
suggest or recommend an execution only service to him in the above period.
As Tilney says, there is evidence from 2018 that Mr W agreed to the new unbundled charges 
structure. We have been given a copy of a Tilney document that gave notice of the new 
structure. Mr Ws agreement signature (dated 19 January 2018) is on the document. The 
document sets out, on a tiered basis, the split between the AMC, the PCF and the Service 
Fee. This was another opportunity for him to consider  or reconsider  the cost(s) of his 
SIPP, especially as the splitting of charges was information he had not previously been 
given. He would have seen that Tilneys ongoing advice service accounted for 0.85% of the 
charges he would be paying. It is possible that this information eventually prompted the 
concern he raised in 2019, but I have not seen evidence that he raised such a concern in 
2018  and his agreement with the 2018 document suggests he had no concern at the time.
In the 2019 review, Mr W raised his concern about charges and Tilney duly responded by 
giving him information about the execution only service. Overall and on balance, I consider 
that the above analysis shows  for the full period claimed in this complaint  no wrongdoing 
on Tilneys part (or that of the firm it took over) in terms of applying the discretionary 
management service to Mr Ws SIPP, in terms of transparency over the existence of a 
cheaper alternative and in terms of transparency of charges.Mr Ws complaint also relates to the service he received for the charges he paid. Like the 
investigator, I consider it is quite clear that he did not receive all the annual reviews he was 
entitled to. I doubt Tilney disputes, or would dispute, this. No suitability reviews took place in 
2014, 2015, 2017 and 2018. Mr W is certainly justified to be aggrieved by this. However, his 
complaint is not isolated to the matter of these missing reviews. They have mainly been 
presented as a basis for his claim about being uninformed  and lacking the opportunity to 
be informed  about a cheaper alternative service, and I have addressed that claim above.
Ordinarily, evidence of a firm failing to provide a service that a client paid for would result in 
this services consideration of awarding a refund of relevant fees/charges (for the service) to 
the client; and the level of refund would usually depend on the extent to which there has 
been a service failure (and the impact of that failure). I acknowledge that Mr W has claimed 
a full refund (of the service fees) but he has done so primarily on the grounds that he should 
have been an execution only client from 2012  which, again, I have addressed above. 
The secondary argument for the refund is based on the missing reviews. The reviews were 
an important part of Tilneys servicing of the SIPP but not the only part. It does not appear to 
be in dispute that, over the years, it discharged an ongoing service in terms of processing 
withdrawals from the SIPP. The same also applies to the drawdown arrangements reviewed 
in 2017, which suggests a reaction to a form of change in circumstance in that year. The 
review document from 2016 shows there were no significant changes in Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time (and since the review in 2013) so nothing significant appears to 
have been missed as a result of the lack of reviews in 2014 and 2015. Thereafter, nothing 
appears to have happened in 2018 and then a review was held in September 2019.
Mr W made a valid point about the basis for Tilneys goodwill offer being somewhat arbitrary. 
I agree that the 12 months period used for the offer lacks some explanation, but overall, on 
balance and based on the above analysis I am persuaded that Tilneys offer to refund 
service fees for a 12 months period is no less than fair compensation to him for the missing 
reviews in his case. It is noteworthy that the 2019 review document confirmed no cause for 
change to his investment strategy, whilst noting a change in his employment status as the 
only major change of circumstances  so it appears that there was no notable consequence 
arising from the review missed in 2018. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not find in favour of Mr Ws claim for a full refund of service fees 
and I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman