DRN-3084231
The complaint
Miss P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) didnt contract her back into the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1995 and this has adversely 
affected her state pension.
What happened
Miss P says she told Zurich she wanted to contract back into SERPS in 1995 and 
she says she received a letter confirming this had been done. Neither her nor Zurich 
have been able to locate a copy of this letter.
In October 2000 Miss P got in touch with the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) 
to get a forecast for the value of her State Pension benefits. She was told that she was 
still contracted out of SERPS, so she requested to be contracted back in. Zurich then 
wrote to Miss P to say it had received her instruction via the DWP and if she had any 
questions it said she could contact her financial adviser or call its pensions helpline.
In 2019 Miss P says she received a state pension forecast and this showed her that 
she was worse off for having being contracted out.
Miss P raised a complaint with Zurich. She was concerned that not being contracted 
back into SERPS in 1995 had reduced the value of her State Pension entitlement.
Zurich said based on the guidelines at the time it was suitable for her to contract out of 
SERPS. Zurich also explained that they havent got any record of Miss P requesting to 
be contracted back into SERPS in 1995.
Our investigator looked into matters but said there wasnt sufficient evidence that Miss 
P had contacted Zurich in 1995 to contract back in.
Miss P says she remembers contacting Zurich and its now basically calling her a liar. 
She feels she has lost five years worth of her pension.
Zurich responded to say that if Miss P had already asked to contract back in 1995, they 
are suprised she didnt mention this in 2000 when she found out she was still 
contracted in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The only evidence we have that Miss P did contract back in is Miss Ps testimony which is 
nearly 25 years after the event. I dont doubt this is honest testimony, but it is based on 
memories of a fairly insignificant event (in the grand scheme of things) from a long time ago. 
Unfortunately there is no paperwork on either side to show that any contact was made in 
1995. This isnt to say that Miss P didnt contact Zurich. I accept that its a possibility, but I 
would usually expect there to have been some sort of paper trail or record on Zurichs 
systems especially if it responded as Miss P said. Also I think its more likely than not that if 
Miss P had made this request, she wouldve been contracted back in. Especially given that 
shes told us she received a response to her request.
Where we cant be sure what happened, our service looks at the balance of probabilities. 
Miss P says shed been told in 1995 that her request to be contracted back in had been 
actioned. Therefore, it seems likely that in this scenario, Miss P wouldve raised this with 
Zurich in 2000 when she found out she was still contracted-out. I appreciate Miss P says she 
didnt understand the impact then, but shes also told us she contracted back in, in 1995, 
because shed been told it was the right thing to do at age 40. So on finding out this hadnt 
been done five years later, I think she wouldve been concerned about this then. 
Our investigator put this to Miss P, and she told us she did complain in 2000 but she felt she 
was hitting her head against a brick wall. But again unfortunately there isnt any supporting 
evidence of any contact with Zurich.
Zurich has also said it sent yearly statements to all its customers who had the type of plan 
Miss P had, and on these statements it wouldve shown that the contributions between 1995 
and 2000 came from being contracted-out.
Ultimately, I cant be sure what did happen but the balance of evidence doesnt support what 
Miss P has told us. And it wouldnt be fair to uphold a complaint against a business in this 
scenario. Im afraid this is one of the problems with complaints being brought so long after 
the event, the evidence available is often limited. 
Whilst this isnt important to answering the complaint raised, I thought some further 
information and context may ease Miss Ps concerns somewhat. I note that Miss P says she 
has lost out on five years of pension. But I just thought Id clarify that isnt exactly correct. 
Whilst she could be worse off for contracting-out, the money wasnt completely lost, it was 
just invested with Zurich instead of being within SERPS. 
When Miss P took her benefits, she received a pension and tax-free cash, this came from 
her contracted-out contributions including those from between 1995 and 2000. I dont know 
the finer details of the annuity Miss P took out but the final response letter included the value 
of her plan when she took her benefits. And Miss P has told us what her estimated state 
pension deduction was due to contracting-out. 
Miss Ps annuity may be quite a bit less than the contracted-out deduction amount, but she 
needs to factor in that she chose to take her benefits early from Zurich. And so her annuity 
would likely have been smaller than if shed waited until age 65. The fund built up had to be 
spread across more years and the pot had less time within which to grow because of this. 
Also, her annuity was reduced due to her choice to take a 25% tax-free cash lump sum. 
Whereas the contracted-out deduction is presented as if all contributions wouldve been 
used to take an income in retirement  as the state pension doesnt offer a lump sum option. 
Based on this information Ive carried out some very rudimentary calculations and I dont 
think its likely Miss P will have suffered a big loss from contracting out as a whole. 
In conclusion, the evidence doesnt support that Zurich has made an error, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman