DRN-4356363
The complaint
Mr S complains that his mortgage lender, Mortgage Express, has unfairly increased the 
interest rate on his mortgage. His representative says hes been taken advantage of 
because hes unable to move his mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with a lender called GMAC-RFC in March 2006. He borrowed 
around £180,000 over a 20 year term, on interest only terms. The mortgage offer said that a 
fixed rate of 5.19% would apply until 31 March 2008, followed by the standard variable rate 
(SVR) for the rest of the term. At the time Mr S took the mortgage out the SVR was 6.49%. 
By April 2008 it had risen to 7.25%, after which it fell back reaching 4.84% by the end of 
2008. It remained at that level until 2016. 
Mr Ss mortgage was transferred from GMAC to Mortgage Express, as part of a wider 
transfer of business, in April 2006. Mortgage Express remained Mr Ss lender at the time of 
his complaint.
At the time Mortgage Express was a wholly owned subsidiary of Bradford & Bingley (B&B). 
During the global financial crisis of 2007  2009, B&B collapsed and was taken into 
government ownership. Mortgage Express remained a separate firm owned by the 
nationalised B&B.
Mr Ss representative complained to Mortgage Express in 2021, saying:
Mortgage Express doesnt offer new interest rates to existing customers, and Mr S 
was unable to move his mortgage elsewhere. Mr S had a reasonable expectation 
that he would be able to take a new interest rate on the expiry of his existing one, but 
Mortgage Express failed to make one available.
As a result Mr S had to remain on Mortgage Expresss SVR  he had no other option. 
Mortgage Express did not take that into account in setting the level of interest it 
charged.
Mortgage Expresss SVR has been consistently high, even at a time of low interest 
rates and when the Bank of England base rate was 0.5% or less. The SVR is 
excessive in comparison with other lenders in the market. 
The level of the SVR, and increases to it, were not justified by the terms of the 
mortgage contract  either the explicit terms, or an implied term that the SVR would 
not be varied arbitrarily, unreasonably, improperly, or dishonestly. 
As a result, Mortgage Express treated Mr S unfairly and took advantage of his 
situation. The interest rate should be reduced to a fair rate and overpayments above 
that should be refunded to Mr S. Mr S believes this should be the Bank of England 
base rate plus 1.5%. Mr S believes that it was Mortgage Expresss previously stated 
policy to set its SVR at around 1.5% above base rate.
Mortgage Express didnt agree. It said:
It had not acted in breach of the mortgage terms and conditions  either an explicit 
term or an implied term (and it did not accept that there was an implied term in any 
case).
There was no expectation that the SVR would track base rate, by 1.5% or at all. 
When Mortgage Express had varied the SVR it had done so for good reasons as 
permitted by the terms and conditions. Doing so was not unfair and did not amount to 
taking advantage of Mr S. 
Mr S could not have had a reasonable expectation of a new interest rate at the end of 
his fixed rate. The mortgage offer was clear that it would revert to the SVR without a 
discount after 31 March 2008 and that is what happened. Mortgage Express does not 
offer new interest rates to any customers, but it did not put any barriers in the way of 
Mr S moving his mortgage to a new lender to get a better rate. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it, so Mr Ss representative asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service provide that complaints have to be made 
within six years of the date of the event complained about  or, if it gives more time to 
complain, within three years of when the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have 
known of cause for complaint. Unless theres a record of an earlier complaint we cant 
consider a complaint made outside those timescales. We can consider an out of time 
complaint if the firm complained about consents  but Mortgage Express doesnt consent  
or if there are exceptional circumstances that prevented a complaint being made in time. 
Mr Ss representative hasnt suggested there were any such circumstances. 
Applying the time limit rules to this case, I note that Mr S first complained to Mortgage 
Express on 7 September 2021. His complaint is primarily about two things  the ongoing 
failure to offer a new interest rate, and the fairness of the interest rate he was actually 
charged. 
Each time he is charged interest, Mortgage Express has an obligation to do so lawfully and 
fairly. And if it doesnt, that gives rise to fresh cause for complaint each time interest is 
charged. That means that we can consider the fairness of each interest charging event for 
six years before Mr S complained. I dont think we can go back further than that under the 
three year part of the rule, though. Thats because Mr S knew what interest rate he was 
being charged from time to time, because Mortgage Express told him that regularly in letters 
and statements. He would have known that the interest rate was higher than he was 
expecting and that it did not reduce as far as base rate fell  as he was expecting. Thats 
enough to have told him he had cause for complaint. 
The same is true of the ongoing failure to offer a new interest rate. Mr S would have known 
he was on the SVR and that Mortgage Express hadnt offered him a new rate  as he says 
he expected it would. That was enough to tell him he had cause for complaint about that. 
And so we can only consider the failure to offer a new rate for the six years leading up to the 
complaint. In both cases, therefore, I will only be considering the fairness of Mortgage Expresss actions 
since 7 September 2015.
In considering the fairness of the interest rate charged, it will be necessary to consider the 
whole history of the interest rate  since earlier variations to the SVR made before the six 
year period may still be relevant to the interest rate charged during the six year period. As 
such, they form part of all the circumstances of the complaint about the fairness of interest 
charged in the last six years.
Offering a new interest rate
Mr Ss representative has complained that Mortgage Express didnt offer him any new 
interest rates, either when his fixed rate ended or later. 
Mortgage Express didnt offer interest rates to any existing customers, so I dont think Mr S 
was treated less favourably than other Mortgage Express customers. I dont think it was 
unfair that Mortgage Express didnt offer him a new interest rate after 7 September 2015. 
Theres nothing in either the mortgage terms and conditions or the mortgage offer that says 
it would do so. The mortgage offer makes clear that the mortgage would be charged at the 
SVR after the end of the fixed rate period. 
It's true that many mortgage lenders do offer new interest rates to existing customers  but 
not all do. Theres no obligation, either in the rules of mortgage regulation, in law, or in the 
terms of Mr Ss mortgage that Mortgage Express would do so in his case. But Mortgage 
Express didnt stand in Mr Ss way or prevent him from shopping around and moving his 
mortgage to another lender to access a better deal  there was only an early repayment 
charge applicable up to the end of his fixed rate, for example, so Mortgage Express didnt 
stand in the way of him seeking a better deal. There was no ERC after 7 September 2015, 
during the period I can consider. 
I dont therefore uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint. Ill turn now to the fairness of the 
interest rate Mr S was charged.
The fairness of the interest rate charged after 7 September 2015
Mr Ss mortgage was subject to the SVR from 1 April 2008. Prior to that the SVR had 
increased from when Mr S took the mortgage out. It was 7.25% when the fixed rate ended 
on 31 March 2008. Thereafter the SVR reduced, though not as fast as reductions in the 
Bank of England base rate. By December 2008 the SVR had fallen to 4.84%. It remained at 
that level until 2016. Between 2016 and when Mr S complained the SVR varied in line with 
Bank of England base rate.
In changing the interest rate from time to time, Mortgage Express was limited in its actions 
by the terms of the mortgage contract. The terms and conditions are the ones entered into 
by GMAC  they remained in force and applicable after the transfer. Theres a term which 
says that the lender (GMAC, then Mortgage Express) could only vary the interest rate in 
certain circumstances:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the 
following reasons:
(a) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar 
body.
Mr Ss representative says that there should also be an implied term that Mortgage Express 
shouldnt exercise its power to vary the interest rate arbitrarily, improperly, unreasonably, or 
dishonestly. Thats really a question of contract law, but I dont think its something I need to 
decide for the purposes of this complaint  since I dont think it adds anything substantial to 
the central question I need to consider. Thats whether it acted fairly in setting the rate during 
the period I can consider. Deciding that question includes consideration of the circumstances 
in which it used condition 3.1 to vary the interest rate. If Mortgage Express did exercise its 
contractual power arbitrarily, improperly, unreasonably, or dishonestly, it would follow that it 
wasnt acting fairly whether or not there was an implied term to that effect.
Mr Ss representative hasnt specifically argued that condition 3.1 is an unfair term within the 
meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations, though this is something 
Ive considered too as its relevant law for me to take into account. But while Ive taken into 
account the law, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances in respect of 
interest charged after 7 September 2015, I think the central question for me is whether 
Mortgage Express acted fairly in setting the rate during that period  which includes taking 
account of the way Mortgage Express made use of the terms and conditions.
During the period thats in time, the interest rate was varied only to reflect changes to the 
Bank of England base rate. Thats something explicitly allowed for in the terms and 
conditions, and I note its been said that this is something Mr S expected would happen. I 
dont think the variations to the SVR between 2015 and September 2021, when Mr S 
complained, were unfair.
Ive also thought about whether the SVR was set at a fair level at the start of the period thats 
in time. And to consider that Ive thought about the historic variations to the SVR, which  
from the starting point of when Mr S took the mortgage out  cumulatively led up to the rate 
he was charged from 7 September 2015 onwards. Thats because if one of those earlier 
changes was not made in accordance with the contract, for example, it might not be fair to 
charge an interest rate from 7 September 2015 which relied  in part  on that earlier 
variation.
In making the changes to the SVR it made from when the mortgage was taken out to when it 
reached 4.84% in late 2008  after which there were no further changes before 7 September 
2015  Mortgage Express has told us that it relied on condition 3.1 (b)  to reflect actual or 
anticipated changes in the cost of funding its mortgage lending business.
Mortgage Express has given us detailed information about the cost of funding its mortgage 
lending business. Im satisfied its appropriate to receive that information in confidence, as 
permitted by our rules, subject to providing a summary of it. 
In summary, the information shows that Mortgage Express was funded by its parent 
company, B&B, in the form of loan facilities. B&B in turn, before its collapse and 
nationalisation, raised funding on the wholesale markets.Wholesale market funding costs are generally driven by or related to the LIBOR rate, not the 
Bank of England base rate. Prior to the financial crisis, LIBOR and base rate were broadly 
comparable. But during the financial crisis base rate was reduced substantially as a tool of 
wider macro-economic policy, whereas the cost of wholesale funding also reduced but not to 
the same extent. The result was that there was a greater divergence between base rate and 
LIBOR during this period.
That divergence was reflected in the fact that across the industry  not just in respect of 
Mortgage Express  lenders SVR rates reduced (reflecting the reductions in LIBOR) but not 
by as much as base rate (reflecting the disconnect between the two). In other words, the 
margins between base rate and SVRs increased at this time. Im aware that this was the 
case from my knowledge of other complaints and my knowledge of the mortgage industry, 
supported by contemporary and later reports of market conditions. 
Following B&Bs collapse, it was less exposed to movements in the wholesale markets and 
became primarily government funded. There were certain conditions and costs associated 
with its government funding  which in turn influenced the funding it, as the parent company, 
was able to provide to Mortgage Express. 
Having considered all this information, Im satisfied that when Mortgage Express made 
changes to the SVR between 2006 and 2008, it did so relying on condition 3.1. Im further 
satisfied that it was entitled to rely on condition 3.1 at this time. In particular, it was entitled to 
rely on condition 3.1 (b) when reducing the SVR but increasing the margin over base rate, 
because the cost of funding its mortgage lending business was in fact changing, and the 
changes to the SVR reflected the changes to the cost of funding its mortgage lending 
business. Its true that Mortgage Express ceased to be an active mortgage lender, seeking 
out new business. But it still operated a mortgage lending business in respect of its existing 
loan book, which included Mr Ss mortgage. 
Mr Ss representative says that Mortgage Express had a policy, and Mr S had a reasonable 
expectation, that its SVR would be kept at around 1.5% above base rate  and by increasing 
the margin it therefore acted unfairly. Ive seen no evidence that there was such a policy, or 
that if so it included Mr Ss mortgage. The archived website Mr Ss representative refers to 
simply says that Mortgage Expresss variable rate products are set at around 1.5% above 
base rate. Its not clear that this is referring to the SVR  as opposed, for example, to its 
base rate tracker rates  and if it is, this is at best a general statement of Mortgage 
Expresss aspirations around the time it made the statement. Its not a binding contractual 
commitment to Mr S. 
This statement was also made before the financial crisis  which, as Ive said, led to a 
dislocation between base rate and the cost of funding mortgage lending. And so even if it 
was a statement of Mortgage Expresss general aspirations in managing its SVR  which I 
havent found to be the case  that doesnt mean that in the very different conditions of the 
financial crisis and its aftermath Mortgage Express is barred from making changes to its 
SVR merely because they contradict something it said  non-contractually  in the years 
before the crisis.
Theres no such linkage between the SVR and base rate in Mr Ss mortgage offer or terms 
and conditions, and Ive not seen any evidence that GMAC led Mr S to believe that his 
specific mortgage would behave in that way before he took it out. And of course Mr S cannot 
have relied on this statement in making the decision to take out his mortgage, since he took 
it out with GMAC not Mortgage Express. I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that 
a general statement of how Mortgage Express managed its rates at a particular moment in 
time, a statement that was not in the contemplation of either GMAC or Mr S when the 
mortgage was taken out and which it is not clear was even referring to the SVR, binds its hands forever even if it was referring to the SVR. 
I dont therefore think this online statement is of any particular weight in considering whether 
Mortgage Express acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ss mortgage when it 
varied the interest rate. And its not of any particular weight in considering whether the 
interest rate from 7 September 2015 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Its also important to note that condition 3.1 gives Mortgage Express the power to vary the 
interest rate, but it doesnt create an obligation to do so. In other words, if but only if certain 
conditions are met Mortgage Express has the power to change the SVR. But if those 
conditions are not met it has no power to change the SVR  and even if they are met, it is 
not obliged to do so.
Finally, Mr Ss representatives say that there was a special responsibility on Mortgage 
Express not to take advantage of Mr S because he was unable to shop around and had no 
option but to remain with Mortgage Express. Im satisfied that Mortgage Express acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ss mortgage and didnt treat him less favourably 
than any other borrower. I dont think Mortgage Expresss SVR is significantly higher than 
that of other lenders, whether active or closed. Im not persuaded that it unfairly took 
advantage of him.
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions in varying the SVR in the way that it did. And there is no other basis on 
which I can safely conclude that the interest rate charged to Mr S from 7 September 2015 
onwards was unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman