DRN-2598242
The complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain Connells Limited mis-led them when they applied for life and 
critical illness cover.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr M and Ms S met with Connells to arrange a mortgage. On its advice, 
they also took out protection for this mortgage  they took out a joint decreasing term life 
policy, and separate level term single life and critical illness cover (CIC) policies. In applying 
for this protection Connells asked them a series of questions, including whether Ms S was 
having any medical investigations. Ms S says she told Connells she had recently seen her 
general practitioner (GP) for stomach problems and had given samples for testing, and that 
her GP wasnt worried but had referred her to a gastroenterologist for a second opinion. 
Ms S says Connells told her that wasnt an issue and they were fine to continue with the 
application, and that she wasnt told shed need to contact the insurer. 
All three policies started on 1 March 2017. In the meantime, Ms S had met with a 
gastroenterologist in late February 2017, and in March 2017 she had an endoscopy which 
led to her being diagnosed with ulcerative colitis (UC). Ms S says her condition is not 
currently life changing but she had felt reassured to have the protection of her life and CIC 
policy should it develop into something more serious.
Mr M and Ms S say that in February 2019 they spoke to their mortgage lender about 
remortgaging and it suggested Ms S review her life and CIC policy and contact the insurer 
who provided it. Ms S did this and the insurer excluded UC from her life and CIC policy, 
though the policy itself remained in place and still provided other cover. 
Mr M and Ms S thought Connells had mis-led them after theyd told it about Ms Ss medical 
investigations and that this had left Ms S without cover for her UC. So they complained to 
Connells. In its final response letter, Connells said it didnt disbelieve Mr M and Ms Ss 
recollection of their 2017 meeting with Connells, but that there was no evidence in the 
documentation to support it. And that the proposed quotes it gave Mr M and Ms S in that 
meeting stated there were no special conditions listed, and it was Ms Ss responsibility to 
notify the insurer about any change to the information provided on the application form. So 
Ms S had the opportunity to check her answers were correct. But as a gesture of goodwill, 
Connells offered to refund the £199 fee Mr M and Ms S had paid it in 2017.
Mr M and Ms S remained unhappy so they asked our service to investigate. After looking 
into their complaint, our investigator couldnt say for sure what was discussed in the 2017 
meeting but said it seemed Mr M and Ms S had signed to indicate their needs and 
requirements had been met and that the documents contained all the information they 
wanted to include. 
Mr M and Ms S disagreed, so their complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I sought more information about how the application answers were submitted and what 
information was sent to Mr M and Ms S afterwards. Then I shared my thoughts with Mr M 
and Ms S, and with Connells. I said I thought it was more likely than not that the 
conversation Ms S says she had with Connells about her medical investigations took place 
as Ms S says it did. And I accepted that this incorrect reassurance was why Ms S then didnt 
tell the insurer about the investigations when it asked her to check the answers Connells had 
provided on her behalf. I said that while Connells hadnt caused Ms S to lose cover for UC 
that she otherwise would have had, it had caused her a loss of expectation. I thought 
Connells should pay Ms S and Mr M £150 compensation for that, in addition to the £199 fee 
refund Connells had itself already offered.
Mr M and Ms S agreed with what I said. But Connells disagreed. It was surprised I had 
placed a greater emphasis on Ms Ss recollection of events than on its own, and than on the 
evidence it had provided  it said it found nothing to suggest Ms S told its agent about her 
investigations. It said the insurer sent Ms S a copy of the application answers Connells had 
submitted on her behalf and asked her to tell it about any discrepancies, but Ms S didnt ask 
the insurer why shed been given the policy in light of her investigations. Connells also 
provided an email it sent to Ms S and Mr M on 1 March 2017 about their policies starting  
Connells said this email highlighted they would receive documents from the insurer and that 
they should contact Connells with any queries or amendments.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my reasons, Id like to be clear that Im only considering the actions of 
Connells in this complaint. Im not making any findings about the insurers actions, though Ill 
need to refer to the insurer from time to time. 
Mr M and Ms Ss policies were sold in a face to face meeting with Connells. Connells says it 
input the information it gathered from Ms S directly into the insurers system and didnt keep 
copies of the health questions that were asked or the answers Ms S gave. Ms S says that 
when answering these questions, she told Connells shed seen a doctor about stomach 
problems and was having further investigations, but that Connells said it wasnt an issue and 
it was fine to continue with the application, and she wasnt told shed need to contact the 
insurer.
I wasnt present at this meeting and so I cant be certain what was said. So Ive looked at the 
evidence I do have, which includes a mortgage questionnaire, and emails and policy 
quotations Connells sent to Mr M and Ms S. As Connells has pointed out, this evidence 
contains no record that Ms S told it about the investigations. And Connells hasnt provided 
me with any recollection or comments from the adviser in question. I note that in its final 
response to Mr M and Ms Ss complaint, Connells says it doesnt disbelieve Ms S but that 
theres no evidence of the conversation. So it seems to me that Connells is essentially 
saying theres no written proof of the conversation Ms S says took place about her medical 
investigations. And I agree, but lack of written evidence doesnt prove the conversation didnt 
take place. And weighed against it, I have testimony from Mr M and Ms S that it did take 
place. They have been very consistent and detailed in their recollection of what they say 
Ms S told Connells about her stomach problems and investigations. Taking everything into 
account, I think that, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that the 
conversation about Ms Ss stomach problems and investigations took place as Ms S and 
Mr M say it did.I know Connells says the proposed quote it gave Ms S for her policy stated there were no 
special conditions, and that it was her responsibility to tell the insurer about any changes to 
the information provided in the policy application. I can see the quote does say theres no 
special conditions. But Ms S and Mr M were relying on Connells expertise. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Connells explained to Ms S and Mr M what was meant by special 
conditions or the importance of checking this and what the consequences might be. So 
I dont think Connells took reasonable steps to make clear to Ms S that she needed to check 
whether what was listed under special conditions was correct, and to contact Connells or the 
insurer if it wasnt.
Connells has pointed out that it emailed Mr M and Ms S on 1 March 2017 to say they would 
receive documents from the insurer and asking them to contact Connells with any queries or 
amendments. But this email doesnt mention anything about the health questions that were 
asked or the answers that Connells submitted on Mr M and Ms Ss behalf, or suggest that 
they needed to check anything that the insurer sent them and tell it if they thought any of the 
answers were incorrect. 
I asked the insurer what it had sent to Ms S after she applied for her life and CIC policy. The 
insurer provided a copy of a welcome letter it sent her dated 1 March 2017, together with a 
copy of the proposal summary it said it had enclosed with that letter. The covering welcome 
letter mentions Ms Ss right to cancel the policy and that she need do nothing more if she 
wanted her policy to go ahead, that she should keep her documents safe, and confirms her 
direct debit details.
But the first page of the enclosed proposal summary says it outlines the application
questions and the answers given, and that Ms S should check them and tell it if anything 
was incorrect or had changed, otherwise her cover could be affected and a claim might not 
be paid. And the proposal summary then sets out the application questions and answers. 
From this, I can see the questions that asked whether Ms S had been advised to have any 
medical investigations or whether she was waiting for the results of any tests were answered 
No.
Connells says Ms S didnt ask the insurer why shed been given the policy in light of her 
investigations. For their part, Ms S and Mr M say they didnt take any action to correct the 
application answers because they didnt think theyd been answered incorrectly - they say 
Connells told them it was ok for the questions about investigations and tests to be answered 
No. And that they thought Connells had completed many such applications, so they relied 
on its professional advice. As Ive said, I think its more likely than not that Connells gave Ms 
S the reassurances she says it did, though these were incorrect. So I can understand why 
Ms S didnt tell the insurer about her investigations at this time. And Ms Ss later actions 
suggest that without these incorrect reassurances, she likely would have told the insurer, 
because she later did just that, after she says she was advised to do so by the mortgage 
lender.
But I dont think Connells caused Ms S to lose cover for UC that she otherwise would have 
had. Or that Connells should refund Ms S for her policy and pay her compensation for not 
having UC cover, as she would like. Thats because I dont think Ms S would have been able 
to get cover for UC. When she applied for the policy, she was already having investigations 
that would lead to her UC diagnosis. When the insurer was later told about that, it excluded 
UC cover from her life and CIC policy. If a large insurer like the one in this case wouldnt 
provide Ms S with UC cover, then I think its unlikely shed have been able to find another 
insurer to provide it. So even if Ms Ss investigations had been disclosed at application, she 
likely still wouldnt have had UC cover. I note Ms S has kept this policy, and that while it 
excludes UC, it does provide her with the benefit of life cover and cover for other critical 
illnesses.So I dont think Connells caused Ms S to lose out on UC cover she otherwise would
have had. But I do think Connells caused her a loss of expectation, as its actions led her to 
think she was covered for UC. And I accept Ms S would have been upset and disappointed 
to discover that wasnt the case, because shes told us shed been reassured to think she 
was covered should her condition worsen and become life changing. 
Putting things right
Connells has itself offered to refund its £199 fee. I thinks fair for Connells to offer this fee 
refund, as Ms S and Mr M paid Connells for a professional service which I think it likely fell 
short of. But I think Connells should also pay Ms S a further £150 to compensate her for the 
distress and loss of expectation it caused her.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Connells Limited should refund Mr M and Ms S the £199 they 
paid it, and pay Ms S an additional £150 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman