DRN-3961915
The complaint
Mr H feels that Tesla Financial Services Limited has treated him unfairly with regard to 
financing a new car which he says was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr H signed a conditional sale agreement in February 2022 for a new car. The finance for 
this agreement was provided by Tesla and it provided over £40,000 in credit for a car with a 
cash price of just over £58,000.
Mr H says that there were issues with the paintwork which he raised on taking receipt of the 
car. He says that the service centre acknowledged this damage by trying to repair it three 
times but couldnt do so. So he complained and Tesla didnt agree with Mr H, so he brought 
his complaint here in October 2022 asking for the marks to be removed or to reject the car. 
In February 2023 Mr H informed this service that hed sold the car at a loss and Tesla should 
refund him the loss amount.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H do not agree, 
and as he remains unhappy the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made many arguments in this case and considered all matters to a high degree of 
detail whilst putting forward his arguments. To ensure clarity I shall address those issues 
that I consider to be key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in this dispute between 
these parties.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Tesla are the finance provider for the car under the Conditional Sale Agreement and so are 
responsible for handling complaints about the quality of the car supplied. And the relevant 
law says that the goods (a car in this case) need to be of a satisfactory quality. The relevant 
law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory considering any description of the goods, the price and 
all the other relevant circumstances. 
On this basis if I found the car to be faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of 
satisfactory quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Tesla to put this right.  But Teslas 
responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its condition at the 
point of supply, they are not responsible for all faults that develop afterwards such as those 
relating to wear and tear. And I note that Mr H has since sold the car which provides 
complicating factors not least with regard to the availability of evidence and in relation to any 
potential redress.
Photos
Mr H has provided a number of photos of the paintwork of the car. Ive considered them all 
carefully. I agree with Mr Hs summation that it can be hard to capture photos showing any 
such issues due to issues such as lighting and reflections. And I note that in most of the 
photographs which Mr H has provided theyve been taken in high levels of sunlight and 
hence reflections of the surrounds of the car are particularly obvious including reflections of 
the person taking the photographs. 
Mr H has argued that the issues with the paintwork were caused in the preparation of the car 
for sale possibly by processes and instruments used to polish and clean the car and that 
these issues are shown by the photographs. But Im not persuaded that any of the 
photographs are either individually or collectively sufficient to be allocated significant 
weighting in my decision making. Ill explain why.
In images numbered 187 and 188 I note that there appears to be some straight lines which 
maybe marks on top of the paintwork or in it, but they do not appear consistent with the sort 
of polishing machinery used on cars. These photos appear to be at the rear of the car and 
front bonnet surround which are areas of cars which often suffer scratches and blemishes 
from parking (including parking close to vegetation) or from more general usage. Images 43, 
73 and 84 show evidence of both water droplets and what appears to be dried water marks 
but no obvious damage to paintwork. Some of the other photographs have very high levels 
of reflection and are close up, so discerning what is reflection, water blemishes or other 
markings or damage is very difficult. In summation of my consideration of the photographs is 
that Ive not seen any persuasive indications of the swirling as Mr H has referred to. I say 
this even though Mr H has gone to the trouble, for which I thank him, of appending the 
photos with indicators as to where he sees the issues are with the paintwork. And hence I 
concur with his comments about the difficulties of taking such photographs as I do not see 
any persuasive evidence of such swirling in the paintwork on these photographs. And so I 
dont think the photos are persuasive evidence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of sale as Ive described.
Other evidence
I do however note the service centre noting that there were some light swirls in the paint so 
clearly Mr Hs comments on the matter have been corroborated to some degree. So the 
question remains when Mr H presented the car to Tesla for repair did it do enough to remedy 
the issue. And furthermore once repaired would a reasonable person consider the car to be 
of satisfactory quality.
Mr H said in an email of March 2022 in relation to the car:
still a few small bits. Will need to check in some brighter sunlight later this week but 
broadly happy to accept how it is now and let my detailer pick up the rest. 
Mr H then goes on to ask in the same email for complementary roof bars considering what 
had happened. Ive looked into these and I note for this model car Tesla sells such bars for 
several hundred pounds. Mr Hs request for roof bars is refused and I can see Mr H being 
unhappy with that refusal. 
Recently Mr H has referred to the car as having a totally unacceptable finish. But clearly his 
earlier email shows that he considered the finish on the car to be broadly acceptable. Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence of the work done by Tesla after Mr H received the car to have made the cars finish worse than it was when he first took delivery of the car. And from Mr 
Hs earlier email it would seem that the work done by Tesla after Mr H raised the issue of the 
paintwork had improved matters. So it is clear to me that Mr Hs comments on the finish of 
the car arent wholly consistent in themselves or in relation to the work done on the car by 
Tesla.
Ive considered the evidence Tesla has put forward and I note that it did accept there was 
some swirling originally but that it was remedied, as it described in its email of August 22 that 
it was satisfied with the finish of the second polish. It then said in an email six days later 
that it had explained to Mr H that the quality of the paintwork was at that point within Tesla 
tolerances.
So it is clear to me that having considered all the evidence here Im not persuaded that a 
reasonable person would conclude at that point that the car was of an unsatisfactory quality. 
The issues had been raised by Mr H to the business and it was satisfied that it had remedied 
them. And without an independent report or the car itself to inspect Im not persuaded that its 
position, on balance, was wrong. The photos to my mind are inconclusive and Mr Hs 
evidence is not consistent. So having considered everything here Im satisfied its fair that Mr 
Hs complaint does not succeed.
For completeness I shall address some other comments Mr H has made. Mr H has pointed 
to Tesla working on the car repeatedly as evidence of the car being damaged. Im not 
persuaded by this argument. I note Mr H has contacted Tesla on a large number of 
occasions and challenged or contended a large amount of what it has said throughout this 
dispute. My reading of these interactions is more akin to Tesla trying to provide good 
customer service to Mr H in response to multiple issues being raised by him rather than it 
accepting the car remained unsatisfactory.
Mr H has said highly likely that the swirl marks were introduced here where the grit and 
gravel came in contact with the with machine polisher they were using. The swirl marks are 
so deep that repeated appointments at Tesla has not removed them. These comments are 
not consistent with the photographs Ive considered or indeed Mr Hs earlier comments in his 
email to the business or his description of such swirls being hard to capture in photographs. 
So this is far from persuasive to my mind.
Mr H has sold the car since this dispute started. He explains that he did so due to changes in 
his life. As Ive decided that any issues with the car on delivery had been remedied by Tesla 
then any losses suffered by Mr H when he sold it sit with him alone. I see no persuasive 
reason for Tesla to make up any difference in purchase and resale price.
All in all Im not persuaded on balance that Tesla has anything further to do here. 
Accordingly Mr Hs complaint is unsuccessful.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr H want to hear. But I see no persuasive reason to 
uphold his complaint as Im not persuaded that the car was unsatisfactory quality when once 
Tesla had corrected any issues with the paintwork. And I think it would be unfair for it to have 
to do anything else in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint by Mr H against Tesla Financial 
Services Limited. It has nothing further to do in regard of this dispute.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman