DRN-4097593
The complaint
Mrs O complained because TSB Bank plc refused to refund her for transactions which she 
said she hadnt authorised.
What happened
On 2 December 2022, Mrs O made a £3 payment from her TSB account to her daughter. On 
3 December, there were two payments from Mrs Os account. One was for £4,985 and the 
second for £4,783. They went to two new recipients.
Mrs O contacted TSB. She said she hadnt authorised the £4,985 and £4,783 payments, so 
she wanted a refund. She told TSB that she hadnt given anyone her details, or access to 
her account. She said she hadnt received any suspicious calls, texts or emails.
TSB investigated, but it declined her claim. Mrs O complained. In its final response letter, 
TSB said that with the information it had, it couldnt see how a fraudster would have been 
able to access Mrs Os account to make the payments. 
Mrs O was still unhappy, so TSB reviewed the decision. It wrote to her on 3 February 2023, 
and said that the records showed that the disputed transactions had been made using Mrs 
Os trusted device, which shed previously used for genuine internet banking log-ins, and 
genuine transactions. And TSB said that its fraud team had had a detailed conversation with 
Mrs O, to ensure it had all the information to do a further review. Based on that conversation, 
it hadnt been able to detect any remote access, or determine any point of compromise for 
Mrs Os device. So it couldnt see how a fraudster would have access to make the payments 
from Mrs Os account.
Mrs O wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. He said that the disputed transactions had 
been made using the same device as shed used for undisputed payments. And the method 
used  using Mrs Os customer memorable information - had been the same as for 
undisputed payments. The investigator explained that although Mrs O had been concerned 
that there were several phone numbers on her TSB app, two were duplicates of her genuine 
number. The third, an incorrect number slightly different, had been added after the disputed 
transactions.
Mrs O wasnt satisfied, and raised multiple arguments in many emails.
She said that although the app had been working when she sent a payment to her daughter 
on 2 December, but the next day it hadnt been working, so something had been going on. 
She said she hadnt received any codes from TSB on her phone. 
Mrs O also said that if TSB claimed the transactions had  been done using her phone, why 
didnt the recipients names and account details appear on her phone. She said she wanted 
the account details of the strange persons to whom the money had gone, because she 
said they werent on her phone. And she wanted TSB to confirm why her app hadnt worked 
on the day of the transactions, because she said shed uninstalled and reinstalled the app 
several times on 3 and 4 December.
Our investigator send Mrs O another copy of her bank statement which showed the names 
of the recipients of the two disputed transactions. But Mrs O replied that she already had the 
names on her bank statements, but she wanted the recipients account details. She asked 
the investigator to ask her network provider whether any information had been deleted. She 
also asked him to obtain all her text messages, and said the transactions hadnt been made 
using her phone. Mrs O also said she wanted the pass code sent to her, and the account 
information for the recipients, and the times of the transactions. 
The investigator provided Mrs O with the times of the disputed transactions, but explained 
that TSB wasnt willing to let her have the other information shed requested. Mrs O 
continued to ask for more information, including a forensic test to show whether or not TSB 
had altered the spreadsheet with the transaction information. She also again asked the 
investigator to contact her phone network provider.
Mrs O asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Mrs O has raised multiple points in her submissions to this  service. 
Ive understood all of those and considered all shes said and sent us, but in reaching my 
decision here Ive focused on what I think is vital to my conclusions. Id also point out that 
this service is a quick and informal alternative to the legal process in terms of disputes with 
financial businesses. We can decide what information is enough to carry out an investigation 
and get to the right answer. So I have not pursued all the matters which Mrs O wanted the 
investigator to carry out for her  where I dont think thats necessary in order to reach a 
balanced and impartial decision on the crux of the complaint here.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered who is more likely than not to have authorised the two disputed payments.
Who is most likely to have authorised the two disputed payments?
In order to decide this, Ive looked at the impartial computer evidence about the transactions 
and about Mrs Os TSB account. 
Ive seen that the disputed payments were authorised using the app on the same device Mrs 
O had used to make previous undisputed payments. This included the payment to her 
daughter the day before the disputed payments. Mrs O also used this device for internet 
banking logins.
In order to set up new payees, customers approve the addition through a one-time passcode 
(OTP). I recognise that Mrs O said she never received this. But I accept it was sent, and the 
banks computer records show that there was only one phone number ever registered to Mrs 
Os account. So I consider its likely that Mrs O did receive these, even if she later deleted 
them. The computer records also show that the method used to authenticate the payments was 
that the information was correctly entered from the registered information. Mrs O had 
previously set up this personal information herself, when shed applied for internet banking. 
Mrs O told TSB that she hadnt given anyone her account or security information; that she 
hadnt received any suspicious calls, and hadnt responded to any suspicious texts or 
emails. 
So the transactions were carried out using Mrs Os registered device, personal security 
information which shed set up herself, and with a OTP sent to her registered phone. The 
way the payments were made was exactly the same as payments which she didnt dispute. 
So I cant see how any third party fraudster could have carried out these payments. If Mrs O 
provided someone else with her phone, and all her account information and security, this 
would count as Mrs O authorising the payments herself.
So I find that its more likely than not that Mrs O authorised the payments herself, or that she 
provided someone else with the phone and information to carry them out. This means that 
TSB doesnt have to refund her.
Other points raised by Mrs O
Ive explained that Mrs O has raised multiple points, but Ive focused on what matters in 
terms of reaching my decision. However, Ill deal with some of her other points here.
Mrs O has asked many times to know the account numbers to which the disputed payments 
were sent. I dont understand why Mrs O says she wants this, but more importantly it isnt 
relevant to the outcome here. Thats because the outcome hinges on who authorised the 
payments  not on what account numbers they went to. 
Mrs O has also asked the investigator to find out more information  such as contacting her 
network provider to ask for all her text messages. But I dont consider thats necessary or 
relevant here. It wouldnt help me to decide whether or not Mrs O was the person who 
authorised the transactions on her device and using her security information. 
Similarly, Mrs O wanted the investigator to obtain what she described as a forensic test to 
show whether or not TSB had altered the spreadsheet with the transaction information. She 
hasnt said exactly what she means by this, but in any case I dont consider its at all likely 
that TSB altered the multiple consistent computer records which it sent to us. 
So I have not pursued all the matters which Mrs O wanted the investigator to carry out for 
her, because I have clear and sufficient evidence to reach a balanced and impartial decision 
on the crux of the complaint here. That decision is that the evidence indicates that its most 
likely that Mrs O carried out the disputed payments herself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman