DRN-3174013
The complaint
Mr S complains that LRUK (RETAIL) LIMITED trading as La Redoute irresponsibly gave him 
a running account credit facility that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mr S applied for a credit account with LRUK. He was given an initial credit limit 
of £150. The credit limit was increased to £170 and then to £190 after Mr S failed to make 
payments to the account. LRUK says it increased the credit limit as a measure to assist Mr S 
so that reporting on credit reference agencies wouldnt show he had spent beyond his 
agreed limit. LRUK defaulted the account in March 2018 after it said it had received no 
contact or payments from Mr S for several months. 
In May 2020, Mr S complained to LRUK to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable. He said adequate affordability checks werent carried 
out. He also complained about the default saying that LRUK didnt give him the correct 
notice before applying it and it should therefore be removed from his credit file. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think LRUK had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before approving the £150 limit. 
He said LRUK should have asked about Mr S income. However, he thought that had it done 
so, it would likely still have concluded the limit of £150 was affordable, so he didnt think 
theyd acted unfairly in opening the account. He didnt think LRUK had acted unfairly in 
defaulting the account either. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was taking out high interest loans every month before taking 
out this agreement and other complaints hes made to our service about different lending 
taken out at the time have all been upheld. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LRUK will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Prior to providing credit to Mr S, LRUK says it carried out a credit check. It said the results of 
this satisfied it that Mr S could afford a limit of £150. LRUK havent been able to provide the 
results of those checks to us, so I cant know what it saw. However, I note it didnt ask Mr S 
about his income and so without this I dont think LRUK could adequately assess whether 
the lending was affordable or not. I therefore dont think the affordability checks they 
completed were reasonable or proportionate in this case. 
There isnt a set criteria for what a proportionate check ought to encompass. Given that 
LRUK was proposing to give Mr S a very modest limit of only £150 which required only small 
monthly repayments, I dont think it was necessary for it to verify Mr S income or ask about 
his other committed expenditure (outside of the credit commitments the credit check would 
have shown). 
Mr S says that he was borrowing significant amounts from other lenders at the time. Ive 
seen from Mr S bank statements that he was repaying some other borrowing, but it doesnt 
appear to have been significant amounts. However, I accept its possible he had several 
more credit commitments that werent visible on his bank statements. 
In any event, I havent seen anything that persuades me that LRUK would or should have 
seen that Mr S financial circumstances were in such a state as to make lending him a 
revolving credit facility of £150 unreasonable. Further, had LRUK asked Mr S about his 
income, it appears he was earning around £2,200 each month at the time. I therefore think 
reasonable and proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr S could afford 
the credit. 
I note LRUK increased Mr S credit limit on two occasions, which it says was to assist Mr S. 
Im concerned that LRUK considers increasing a credit limit when a consumer is showing 
signs of financial difficulty to be helpful. I can see that in addition to increasing the credit limit 
in order to absorb some of the charges being applied, it still made additional credit available 
for Mr S to spend which could have caused further financial difficulty. Further, LRUK also 
has a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit reference agencies and its action 
in increasing the credit limit to prevent additional negative information being recorded 
doesnt appear to be an accurate reflection of his account management. 
Having said this, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think LRUKs actions in 
increasing the limit to £170 and £190 have caused Mr S any loss. I say this because:
Mr S didnt make any additional purchases once his limit was increased;
Those limit increases didnt delay how soon LRUK chose to default the account due 
to non-payment;
LRUK continued to add late payment charges and interest as it would have done had 
the limit not been increased; and 
It prevented LRUK from also applying over-limit fees which it could have been 
entitled to do otherwise. 
So, although I dont think LRUKs actions were necessarily appropriate, I dont make any 
award as I dont think Mr S was caused any loss or material distress or inconvenience as a 
result. 
Lastly, Mr S says LRUK didnt give him adequate notice it would default the account. Ive 
seen that Mr S didnt make any payments towards the account for over three months before 
LRUK wrote to him to say it would default his account if the arrears werent paid. LRUK has 
shown it tried to contact Mr S on numerous occasions without success to discuss the arrears 
prior to sending the notice of default. It gave him the required notice period to pay those 
arrears and as Mr S didnt do so, LRUK defaulted the account. I dont therefore think LRUK 
acted unfairly. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman