DRN-4485660
Complaint
Mr L has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr L with a loan for £3,000.00 in January 2020. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £242.12.
I understand that Mr L may also have taken out a credit card with 118 118 Money. But weve 
only been asked to look at a complaint about Mr Ls loan.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr L and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint be upheld. Mr L disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr L could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ls application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr L could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr L has said that the monthly payments for the loan were unaffordable 
to him and caused him hardship so he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr L and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ls first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Ls application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr L did have some previous difficulties with 
debt in the form of defaults. But Mr Ls unsecured debt total at the time of the application 
was reasonable in comparison to his income. And although the vast majority of his more 
recent accounts were relatively well maintained, it is clear that Mr L had recently defaulted 
on a credit account. 
Given that this is the case I would have expected 118 118 Money to find out a bit more about 
Mr Ls actual living expenses before it decided to lend to him. After all, Mr L had recently 
proved unable to repay a creditor and I think that this called into question the accuracy of the 
amount that 118 118 Money had arrived at for Mr Ls living expenses. That said, I dont think 
that obtaining further information on Mr Ls actual living costs would have made a difference 
to 118 118 Moneys decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr L has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Mr L says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information about his living costs shows. And I know that the global situation changed 
significantly a few weeks after this. But 118 118 Money wont have known that this would 
happen. I also accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Mr L appears 
to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  its possible it may have 
reached a different decision.
But given the circumstances here, and what 118 118 Money needed to find out, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank 
statements for all of Mr Ls accounts  especially as bank statements werent the only way 
that 118 118 Money could find out about Mr Ls living expenses in the first place. And finding 
out about Mr Ls living expenses wont have led 118 118 Money to determine the loan 
payments to be unaffordable.  
Furthermore, as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was providing to Mr L and there wasnt 
a history of Mr L obtaining funds and then returning for more, Im satisfied that 118 118 
Money was reasonably entitled to believe that this loan was affordable Mr L. As this is the 
case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr L. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman