DRN-3630595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc credited the wrong amount of money into 
their joint account after they made a deposit in branch.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a joint account with Santander. In October 2021 Mr M visited a branch to 
deposit £15,000 into the account. The cashier took the money away to count it and returned 
and completed the deposit. Mr M declined to take a receipt.
When he returned home, Mr M found he had a voicemail message asking him to call the 
branch. When he was able to get hold of someone in branch, they explained that the cash 
he had deposited had only amounted to £10,000 and not £15,000 as stated. They said that 
the cashier had made an error but that this had now been checked and rectified. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy about this as they said the money hadnt been counted in front 
of them and nothing was said when Mr M was in branch, so they didnt know that the right 
amount had been credited. They made a complaint to Santander but it didnt uphold the 
complaint. So they brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues, and while he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld, he thought Santander should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for the poor 
service it had provided.  
Santander accepted our investigators outcome. However Mr and Mrs M werent happy with 
it, as they said they didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Mr M had only 
deposited £10,000 on the day. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the amount of money that was deposited into 
their account. And the fact that Santander havent been able to provide CCTV or prove for 
certain that the cash deposited was only £10,000. 
When considering a complaint where the account of what happened is disputed, its the role 
of this service to look at all the evidence and then decide whats most likely to have 
happened based on this.
Santander has explained that when the discrepancy was discovered, the cash was counted 
a second time by a second member of staff and the CCTV footage of the first count was 
viewed. After this process was followed both staff members were satisfied that the correct 
amount was £10,000.
Further, at the end of the day the money thats been deposited to the branch and credited to 
accounts is reconciled to make sure the till balances. And Santander didnt report any 
discrepancy between the deposits and credits that day. So I think its most likely that the 
amount deposited matched the corrected amount credited to the account.
While I agree it would be better if Santander still had a copy of the CCTV footage the staff 
viewed on the day, as this hasnt been possible to view, Ive had to make a decision based 
on the other evidence that is available. And on considering the process carried out by 
Santander on the day, and the checks and balances in place, I think its most likely that Mr M 
deposited £10,000 rather than £15,000 and therefore the amount credited was correct.
However, I agree with our investigator that Santander provided poor service to Mr M on the 
day. The error wasnt identified and explained at the time, which it should have been. Had 
the cashier identified the discrepancy at this stage then Mr and Mrs M would have been 
saved the distress and inconvenience of having to call the bank after and follow this up with 
their concerns. I therefore agree that Santander should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 
compensation to apologise for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs M £100 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman