DRN-2495359
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Brightside Insurance Services Limited administered and then 
cancelled her motor insurance policy. Mrs S wants a refund and compensation.
 
What happened
Mrs S took out a policy through Brightside and it sent her details of how to access its online 
portal. On the portal, it asked Mrs S for information about her and the named drivers driving 
licences. Mrs S couldnt access the portal and she contacted Brightside to try to remedy this, 
but to no avail. So, as she hadnt provided the required information, Brightside cancelled her 
policy, applied its charges and recorded the cancellation. Mrs S heard that her policy had 
been cancelled from her finance company. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Brightside 
was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to cancel the policy and apply charges if 
requested validation information wasnt provided. 
But she thought Mrs S had made it clear to Brightside that she couldnt access the portal and 
was in constant communication with it to try and remedy this. So she thought it was unfair for 
Brightside to cancel the policy. She thought it should remove records of the cancellation, 
refund any cancellation charges, and pay Mrs S £150 compensation for her trouble and 
upset.
Brightside replied that it thought the cancellation was fair as Mrs S hadnt provided the 
validation documents. It thought the recommended compensation was disproportionate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms of business and fairly and reasonably.
I think its clear from Brightsides terms of business that its entitled to cancel the policy and 
apply charges if requested validation documents arent provided as requested. And I can see 
that Brightside followed the procedure stated in its terms of business by requesting the 
driving licence validation documents. And then, when they werent provided, it gave the 
required notice of cancellation and then cancelled the policy and applied charges. 
But I dont think this was fair or reasonable in Mrs Ss particular circumstances. Ill now 
explain why I think this: 
I think Mrs S made it clear to Brightside on more than one occasion that she couldnt 
access its online portal and so she didnt see its requests for validation documents. In 
these contacts, Brightside didnt tell Mrs S that validation documents were required.
Mrs S finally asked for her documents to be sent by post. But this wasnt done, so Mrs S 
missed the opportunity to provide the requested information in time. 
I think Brightside had the wrong mobile number for Mrs S, though I cant see how this 
arose. I cant see that Brightside checked this number with Mrs S when she contacted it. 
But this meant that Mrs S didnt receive its text message sent to request the documents. 
Mrs S had paid her deposit for the policy and she had confirmation that her direct debit 
had been set up. She was in constant contact with Brightside to try and access her 
documents. So I think she fully intended to continue with the policy and would have 
provided the requested information if shed known it was needed. 
Mrs S was eventually able to access the online portal using a different email address, but 
this was after the policy had cancelled. I think that if Brightside had either provided its 
request by a different means or, because Mrs S was in constant contact to overcome the 
portal problem, allowed some leeway, then the policy wouldnt have been cancelled.  
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Brightside has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
To restore Mrs Ss position, I think Brightside needs to remove records of the cancellation 
and refund any charges it applied. But I think its reasonable for the insurer to charge Mrs S 
for her time on cover. 
And I think Brightside should provide Mrs S with a letter stating that the policy was cancelled 
in error so that she can ask her current insurer to rerate her policy. 
I also agree with the investigator that the unfair cancellation has caused Mrs S avoidable 
trouble and upset. Shes had the trouble of finding cover elsewhere, for an increased 
premium due to the cancellation. And shes had the worry and upset of dealing with this 
matter. 
The investigator recommended that Brightside should pay Mrs S £150 compensation for this 
impact. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Brightside Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the cancellation form any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded. 
2. Provide Mrs S with a letter stating that the policy was cancelled in error. Mrs S can then 
show this to her current insurer and ask for her policy to be rerated. 
3. Refund Mrs S any cancellation charges and commission applied by Brightside. 
Pay Mrs S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service in administering her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman