DRN-1466897
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc(BoS) has increased the minimum payment on his 
credit card account and has labelled him a persistent debtor.
What happened
Mr T says BoS increased the minimum payment on his credit card account from 1% to 2.5% 
in early 2019. He says he has also been called a persistent debtor by BoS which is 
demeaning and unfair as he has always made his monthly repayments. Mr T says he 
received a further letter from BoS asking him to increase his payments again which is unfair. 
He would like BoS to remove the persistent debtor reference to him and reduce his monthly 
repayments back to 1%.
BoS says it has followed regulatory guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) by 
sending Mr T the letter in July 2019. It says the letter didn't ask Mr T to increase his 
repayments from 2.5% but highlighted the benefits of doing so. BoS says it gave Mr T the 
option of closing his account in early 2019. But he chose to keep it open and in doing so 
agreed to the monthly repayment increase to 2.5%. BoS accepts not dealing with part of Mr 
T's complaint as it should and paid £75 compensation.
Mr T unhappy with that response brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didn't uphold 
it and thought BoS was complying with the FCA rules on persistent debt. The investigator 
thought Mr T had been dealt with fairly by BoS and it wasn't responsible for the requirements 
to send these sorts of letters. The investigator thought the compensation was fair and 
reasonable and couldn't recommend BoS reduce the monthly repayment amount.
Mr T doesn't accept that view and says in summary that he's not been treated fairly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I appreciate that Mr T will be 
disappointed by my decision and how strongly he feels about what has taken place.
I make clear to Mr T, as the investigator has, that BoS isn't responsible for the term 
"persistent debtor" and isn't responsible for the persistent debt requirements. Those 
requirements have been introduced by the FCA and are designed to help those in debt. So I 
don't think BoS has made a mistake or acted unfairly by writing to Mr T in line with those 
regulatory requirements and by changing Mr T's minimum payment amount.
I can see from BoS's records that it gave Mr T the option of closing his account in early 
2019. But Mr T decided he wished to keep the account open and in doing so, he agreed to 
increase his monthly repayment amount to 2.5%. I'm satisfied that was Mr T's decision, and 
so I can't fairly conclude that BoS made a mistake or acted unfairly be following his instructions. I appreciate that BoS didn't handle parts of Mr T's complaint as it should and 
paid compensation. I don't intend to say anything about that as Mr T doesn't complain about 
that award and that isn't the basis of this complaint.
I have looked at the letter BoS sent Mr T in July 2019 which I think triggered this complaint. 
I'm satisfied that it was a letter BoS was obliged to send and was designed to offer Mr T 
support in repaying his debt. I don't think the letter told Mr T that he had to increase his 
repayments. So I don't think BoS made a mistake or acted unfairly by sending that letter.
I appreciate Mr T takes issue with the term "persistent debtor". I have made clear that I'm 
satisfied that is not a term that BoS has a choice about using or that it's a term it decided to 
use. But that its part of new regulatory requirements introduced by the regulator- the FCA.
Overall I'm satisfied that BoS hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly, and so I can't order it 
to reduce Mr T's monthly credit card account repayment amount or order it to stop using the 
term persistent debtor
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman