DRN-3432315
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S have a home insurance policy underwritten by AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited (AA). This covers damage to their property, amongst other things.
They made a claim at the end of November 2020 after they found some damage to their 
conservatory and their kitchen floor, which appeared to be starting to slope.
AA arranged for a surveyor to attend and carry out a detailed inspection at the property, in 
January 2021. The suspicion was that there might be subsidence at the property.
The surveyor was concerned that the foundations to the conservatory might not be deep 
enough and might not comply with the relevant building regulations at the time of 
construction. They also suggested further investigations relating to some trees in the vicinity 
of the property.
AA received laboratory reports on the soil at the site in February 2021. And an 
arboriculturists report in March 2021. The latter led to some discussions with Mrs S and 
Mr Ss neighbours about proposed work on the trees.
In April 2021, Mrs S and Mr S made a complaint to AA about delays in the handling of the 
claim. They were understandably keen that any necessary works should begin as soon as 
possible. 
AA asked Mrs S and Mr S for the building plans for the conservatory, which had been built 
early this century. Again, the concern was that the foundations for the conservatory may not 
have been complaint with building regulations at the time.
In late June 2021, Mrs S and Mr S advised AA that they couldnt find any plans for the 
conservatory. A few weeks later, AA wrote to Mrs S and Mr S to advise that the claim had 
been declined.
AA later reviewed their position and eventually accepted the claim in November 2021, 
despite the fact that their reservations about the construction of the conservatory remained.
Mrs S and Mrs S werent happy with the delays in the handling of the claim and brought their 
complaint to us. 
After we asked AA to provide some further information, they accepted that there has been 
some avoidable delays in their handling of the claim and some confusion in the 
communications with Mrs S and Mr S.
They told us that the claim was now proceeding, having been accepted in November 2021, 
and they suggested paying £500 in compensation to Mrs S and Mr S for the trouble and 
upset caused by the delays and the communication issues.
Mrs S and Mr S didnt accept that offer. They thought the compensation was inadequate 
given the stress and worry theyd been caused and the delays to repair of their home.
Our investigator thought the compensation offer was fair and reasonable, but Mrs S and 
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They think the 
compensation is inadequate and they also have concerns about the on-going handling of the 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to make one thing very clear at the outset. The rules which govern our service - the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) dispute resolution rules - say that we can only look 
into complaints that have previously been made to the business concerned, unless we have 
consent from the business to proceed despite the fact they havent had a chance to resolve 
their customers complaint themselves. 
Mrs S and Mr S complained to AA in April 2021 about delays in the handling of the claim up 
to that point. So, in this decision, I can address any issues in the period between the claim 
being made  in late November 2020  and 29 April 2021, when Mrs S and Mr S complained 
to AA.
However, AA then made an offer - through us - in February 2022, to settle the complaint with 
£500 compensation for the delays and confusion in the handling of the claim up to the point 
when the claim was accepted  on 25 November 2021. They said the claim had proceeded 
perfectly well since that point.
So, Im satisfied AA have in fact agreed to our looking into any issues raised by Mrs S and 
Mr S up to 25 November 2021. And, in this decision, Ill be looking at whether AA made any 
errors in the handling of the claim up to that point  and whether the £500 payment theyve 
offered is fair and reasonable compensation for Mrs S and Mr Ss trouble and upset up to 
that date.
It's important to be clear about this because I believe Mrs S and Mr S arent entirely happy 
with the handling of the clam after 25 November 2021. If that is the case, they may make a 
further complaint to AA  about any alleged errors or delays after 25 November 2021. And if 
they arent satisfied with AAs response, theyd be entitled to bring that further complaint to 
us. 
To be absolutely clear, any compensation that I award now, in this decision, covers  and 
fully covers  the period up to 25 November 2021, when the claim was accepted by AA. If 
we do look into any further complain or complaints from Mrs S and Mr S, we will look only at 
the period after 25 November 2021.
Im sorry if this appears an overly legalistic or technical way to approach Mrs S and Mr Ss 
complaint, but it is important for us to be clear about what time periods are covered by a final 
decision, particularly where there is an on-going insurance claim. In those cases, its not for 
us to step in and try to direct the on-going handling of the claim. Nor can we try to hit a 
moving target with our complaint outcome as the situation progresses day to day.
When I look at the period between the claim being made in November 2020 and the claim being accepted in November 2021, I can see that there are some delays which could have 
been avoided. 
AA arent denying this. They also admit that there was some confusion in the 
communications before the claim was originally declined in mid-2021. AA had told Mrs S and 
Mr S that they would cover the damage to the superstructure even if they werent going to 
cover the necessary work on the foundations. They then declined the claim in full.
AA accept that there were avoidable delays and confused communications. Thats why they 
offered £500 in compensation for Mrs S and Mr Ss trouble and upset.
Looking in more detail at the year or so between the claim being made and the claim being 
accepted, there wasnt any significant avoidable delay in AA getting a survey carried out six 
weeks  including Xmas and new Year - after the claim was made. 
It wasnt then unreasonable to commission a report from an arboriculturist. And that report 
was received around a month or so after AA received the laboratory report on the soil which 
followed the surveyors visit. Again, the time frames here are not unreasonable.
It was after that report was provided, in March 2021, that AA asked Mrs S and Mr S for the 
building plans for the conservatory. And it wasnt until late June 2021 that Mrs S and Mr S 
told AA that they didnt have the plans. I cant reasonably blame AA for any of that delay.
The claim was declined in June 2021. And although it is to AAs credit that they reviewed the 
claim again and reversed their decision, it did take until November 2021 before they advised 
Mrs S and Mr S that the claim would be accepted.
I understand that sometimes these claim decisions are difficult, finely balanced and rely on a 
great deal of technical expertise and judgement. But it seems to me that there was some 
delay here that might have been avoided. And Mrs S and Mr S were left for that period with a 
great deal of stress and worry given that their claim had at that stage still been declined.
In summary, there are some avoidable delays between November 2020 and November 2021 
that are AAs fault  particularly, in my view, towards the end of that period. But I have to 
bear in mind the complexity of the claim and the judgements that had to be made. And the 
fact that AA were waiting to receive the building plans from Mrs S and Mrs for a fair amount 
of time.
Taking all of the circumstances into account, Im not going to conclude that a large portion of 
the year between November 2020 and November 2021 was made up of avoidable delays 
that were entirely AAs fault.
Putting things right
I understand why Mrs S and Mr S have found this series of events very stressful and 
worrying. And I dont underestimate the extent to which they will have been frustrated and 
disappointed by any delay at all. 
However, I think the £500 which AA have offered in compensation is a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the degree of trouble and upset suffered by Mrs S and Mr S which resulted 
solely from AAs errors in their handling of the claim up to November 2021. 
I bear in mind, of course, that Mrs S and Mr S were inevitably going to suffer stress and 
worry once they discovered the problems with their property. What Ive tried to do is assess 
the extent of the additional trouble and upset caused solely by AAs errors, rather than by the situation itself, which is of course, not of AAs making.
As I made clear above, this decision  and the compensation award  cover the period up to 
25 November 2021, when Mrs S and Mr Ss claim was accepted. I understand AA have now 
appointed an independent surveyor to scope out the works required to repair the home. 
If Mrs S and Mr S arent happy with AAs handling of the claim after 25 November 2021, they 
may make a further complaint to AA. And if they arent satisfied with AAs response, they can 
then bring that complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay Mrs S and Mr S £500 in 
compensation for their trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman