DRN-1639578
The complaint
Mr C and Miss O are unhappy with the mortgage advice they received from Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) in 2018 when they were moving house. They say they were 
advised to port their existing product, take the extra borrowing on a five-year fixed rate and 
then they could change the product on the ported part twice (each time to a two-year fixed) 
which would mean the products would then be in sync in 2023.
What happened
Mr C and Miss Os existing mortgage was on a rate that was fixed until 31 October 2019.
They needed to borrow extra money for the new purchase and the adviser initially discussed 
a two-year fixed rate for that. He said it would be fixed until 31 August 2020.
Mr C called back later that day to ask about a five-year fixed rate for the new borrowing. He 
said hed been thinking about it and that might be easier as, once the ported rate ended on 
31 October 2019, he could change that onto a two-year fixed rate (so until 2021) and then 
again onto another two-year fixed rate (so until 2023).
In a call the following day Mr C said the five-year fixed rate was his preference as he wanted 
a longer-term fix as he thought rates would be going up, and the application proceeded on 
that basis.
In 2019, when they came to change the rate on the ported part Mr C and Miss O complained 
as there were no two-year fixed rates available to them. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr C and Miss O didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr C and Miss O wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr C and Miss O but although Ive read and 
considered the whole file - including listening to the five application phone calls in full - Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, 
consumers and businesses.
In their complaint to us Mr C and Miss O said When I spoke with Halifax, I confirmed the 
situation we were in and asked for advice. I was advised that I should take out a 5 year fixed 
offer to the new borrowing and port the existing mortgage. I was advised that I could then 
remortgage the ported element twice for two years and that the mortgage elements would be 
on the same product or I could move to another lender without an early repayment charge. 
As a direct result of this conversation, I was took out the additional borrowing with Halifax 
and proved the mortgage.
Ive listened to the calls very carefully and thats not what happened. The adviser originally 
discussed a two-year fixed rate with Mr C. The adviser explained the two sub-accounts could 
be run separately so once the existing rate ended on 31 October 2019 that could be moved 
to a new rate in isolation, otherwise that part would move onto the reversionary variable rate 
if Mr C and Miss O chose not to move it to a new rate. Mr C replied Naturally the two parts 
will never come into sync with each other  The adviser confirmed they wouldnt, unless 
Mr C and Miss O didnt take a new rate when the existing one ended and went onto the 
reversionary rate. He said that would mean paying more for those months but did mean the 
two sub-accounts could be reviewed together. The adviser went on to explain that there was 
no problem running two sub-accounts separately and if Mr C and Miss O wanted to move 
again in the future, they could port both sub-accounts.
That call was cut off, and when it resumed the call started with Mr C correctly summarising 
everything the adviser had told him. He then said If I then come to the end of my rate with 
you guys and youre massively uncompetitive, which you may or may not be To which the 
adviser replied that no-one knew what would happen with rates and with Brexit. A few other 
times in the calls there was a similar mention of not knowing what would happen with rates, 
and the adviser not having a crystal ball.
A few hours later there was a further call as Mr C had asked for a call back from the adviser. 
Mr C said So Im thinking the way that the products work, it might be easier to actually take 
out a five-year fix at 2.92 and then, on that half of the borrowing, and then just refix in my 
additional [] cos if I do two years Im going to end up with the other half of the borrowing, 
the borrowing that Im porting over, ending up being a year out. Whereas if I do five-year fix 
and then the part that Im then porting over if I then refix it in twice at two-years fixed each 
time then by the time my five years runs out they should roughly be in sync.
The adviser then spent some time trying to understand the importance to Mr C of having it all 
on one rate, rather than running the two sub-accounts separately, and they discussed the 
risks of different rate lengths. Mr C said he wanted a longer term fixed rate because in his 
opinion the base rate will only end up rising, and the fact the five-year fixed rate was only 
slightly higher than the two-year fixed rate meant he wanted to go for that. Things were left 
there whilst Mr C decided whether to proceed with Halifax or with a complete remortgage 
that hed already discussed with his independent mortgage broker.
The following day Mr C confirmed hed decided to proceed with Halifax and when asked 
what he thought about the rates he said were going to port the rate, set the additional 
borrowing up on the five years and then Ill remortgage [] that twice
The adviser went through the specific information about the five-year fixed rate, including the 
early repayment charges and emailed the illustration and recommendation to Mr C and 
Miss O.
The next call started with the adviser asking Mr C if hed read it all and if there was anything 
he wanted explained before they proceeded. Mr C said no, thats fine, this is all my kind of 
business, so I understood it anyway so not to worry.
Having considered everything its clear the choice of a five-year fixed rate was introduced 
(and led by) Mr C, not the adviser. And its also clear that at no time did the adviser tell Mr C 
that he could change the rate twice (each time onto a new two-year fixed rate) and that 
would sync the rates. Whilst this was an advised sale, so the adviser had a responsibility to ensure it was suitable, there was nothing here that made the five-year fixed rate unsuitable 
at the time it was taken out.
Unfortunately things changed and at the time Mr C and Miss O wanted to move the original 
sub-account onto a new fixed rate, Halifax didnt have a two-year fixed rate available. Thats 
a very unusual circumstance as historically two-year fixed rates have generally always been 
available. The adviser had no reason to believe that wouldnt be the case in the future (and 
clearly nor did Mr C as it was him that suggested that course of action) so I cant fault the 
adviser for that. As the adviser said on a few occasions, he didnt have a crystal ball and 
couldnt predict what would happen with rates in the future. There was no guarantee given 
by the adviser that a two-year fixed rate would be available to Mr C and Miss O in 2019 and 
then again in 2021.
The adviser did make it clear there was no guarantee the rates would ever sync unless Mr C 
and Miss O went onto the reversionary variable rate at some point, and he also explained 
there was no issue with running the two sub-accounts completely separately for the life of 
the mortgage. Mr C, in the phone calls, clearly understood that and also confirmed that 
because he works in the industry he had understood everything anyway, before it had been 
put in writing.
Its unfortunate that Halifax wasnt offering a two-year fixed rate when Mr C and Miss O 
wanted it, but that doesnt mean the adviser did anything wrong when he recommended this 
mortgage. Mr C clearly knew there was a risk as although he didnt mention the possibility of 
there not being any rate available, he did state that when they came to apply in 2019 that 
Halifax may be uncompetitive at that time. So, hypothetically, Halifax could have had a 
two-year fixed rate available in 2019, but at such an uncompetitive rate Mr C and Miss O 
didnt want it. If Mr C understood that could happen, then theres not really a difference to 
what actually did happen.
Having considered everything Im satisfied this mortgage product wasnt unsuitable for Mr C 
and Miss O at the time it was recommended.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and so I make no order or award. My final decision concludes 
this services consideration of this complaint, which means well not be engaging in any 
further consideration or discussion on the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss O to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman