DRN-3390259
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed her credit card and recorded a 
default on her credit file.
 
What happened
Miss S had a credit card with Santander. Miss S has explained that her income reduced after 
she had to take time away from work to look after a sick family member. In April 2021, Miss 
S agreed a short term payment arrangement with Santander of £94 for two months. During 
the call, Santander gave information to Miss S about how defaulting the credit card debt 
could impact her credit file. Miss S was asked to call back at the end of the two month 
arrangement to relook at the position. 
Miss S called Santander at the end of the two month plan but it said she failed to answer 
security questions correctly. As a result, Miss S was referred to branch and went on to raise 
a complaint. Miss S made another payment to cover June 2021, in line with the £94 
arrangement previously agreed. 
In July 2021 Santander sent Miss S a formal demand and default notice. On 16 August 2021 
Santander closed the credit card and took the step of reporting a default on Miss S credit 
file. 
On 18 August 2021 Miss S discussed a possible arrangement with Santander. But by this 
point, Miss S account had closed. Miss S complained to Santander and it sent her a final 
response. Santander apologised that Miss S call on 26 June 2021 was handled poorly and 
that she wasnt put through to the right team. But Santander didnt agree it had made a 
mistake by closing Miss S credit card in August 2021 or reporting a default. Santander paid 
Miss S £150 and apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss S complaint. They thought Santander had 
dealt with Miss S case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss S asked to appeal, so 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. An approach our rules 
allow me to take. Id like to ensure all parties that no discourtesy is intended by this 
approach. 
All parties agree that Miss S call on 26 June 2021 was handled poorly. Santander said Miss 
S had failed to correctly answer security questions and didnt put her through to the right 
team. I agree that has caused Miss S some inconvenience here. But, I think its reasonable 
to note that the arrangement was only for a two month period. In addition, I can see 
Santander tried to call Miss S back and went on to send text messages and correspondence 
about the position of her account. 
Santander has sent copies of the letters it sent setting out its intention to close Miss S credit 
card and report a default. The letters said Miss S needed to make contact within 28 days of 
13 July 2021 otherwise Santander would close the credit card. Miss S didnt speak with 
Santander before it closed her credit card on 16 August 2021. Whilst I agree Santander did 
make a mistake, Im satisfied its decision to close Miss S credit card was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Santander paid Miss S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused and apologised for 
the service provided. I dont doubt Miss S was going through a particularly difficult time, but I 
havent found that Santander acted unfairly when it closed her credit card and recorded a 
default. The settlement Santander has paid is very much in line with what I wouldve 
awarded. Im sorry to disappoint Miss S but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with her 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss S complaint because Santander UK Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman