DRN-4146549
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). She isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs W had an accident in November 2020, and she made a claim under her insurance 
policy. Her car was repaired and returned to her. But just after Mrs W had her car back from 
having its service done over a year later she found there was a problem with the rear parking 
sensors. When she told the garage that undertook her service about this it looked at her car 
and suggested that the car may not have been repaired properly after the accident which 
was why she was having the present difficulty. So, Mrs W complained to RSA about this.
RSA eventually got the car inspected. But the engineer said that there wasnt any evidence 
to suggest that the problem with the cars parking sensors was related to the accident or the 
original repair. However, it did offer £100 compensation for the delay in dealing with matters 
and poor communication. And it told Mrs W that she was free to make a further claim under 
her insurance policy if she wished in relation to the parking sensor problem. As Mrs W 
remained unhappy she complained to this Service. 
While the matter was with this Service for consideration RSA increased its offer of 
compensation to £250 which our investigator thought was fair. She explained to Mrs W that 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to say that the problems with the parking sensors was 
related to the original accident. And she felt that its offer of £250 compensation for the poor 
communication, service and delay was fair.
As Mrs W remained unhappy the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have some sympathy for the position Mrs W has found herself in, it must 
have been very difficult for her to have had the problem with the parking sensors given her 
personal circumstances. But I think RSA has dealt with her claim and its response to the 
poor service it provided fairly. Ill explain why.
I know Mrs W feels that her problem with her sensors was caused by the accident in 
November 2020 or during the repair process. But given the significant amount of time 
between the repair and the problem surfacing it is difficult to say this for sure, especially 
when RSAs independent engineer has said there isnt any evidence to support this. The 
engineer said the rear bumper face has been impacted with the two centre parking 
sensors dislodged and pushed behind the rear bumper cover and the N/S/R parking sensor 
missing. And goes on to say that this is not claim / repair / repairer related. I find this 
persuasive and I would expect these problems to have affected the car around the time of 
the original repair (December 2020), not over a year later, if the sensors issue was 
connected to the accident. 
It is possible that there has been a subsequent incident in more recent times. I know Mrs W 
questions this, but it is possible the car has been knocked while left unattended or the 
general problem with the sensors was caused by another impacting factor. So, I dont think I 
can hold RSA responsible for this given the passage of time and the independent engineers 
comments. However, Im pleased to see that RSA has said to Mrs W that she can make 
another claim under her policy if she wishes. 
Finally, I agree that RSA appears to have delayed looking into matters and this must have 
been frustrating for Mrs W. But I agree that its offer of £250 compensation seems fair for 
this. So, overall, I dont feel there is sufficient evidence to say that Mrs Ws parking sensors 
problem was caused over a year after RSA repaired her car and returned it to her. And I feel 
RSAs offer of £250 compensation for the poor service and delay feels fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
offer of £250 compensation is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman