DRN-3963621
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy as Monzo Bank Ltd have declined to reimburse her for transactions she 
made as a result of a third-party scam. 
What happened
The circumstances to this complaint are well known to both parties, but briefly: 
Ms P came across a cryptocurrency trader - I will refer to as J  around August 2021 when 
she searched online. She made a number of payments from her other bank accounts into 
her account with Monzo. From her Monzo account she transferred the money into 
cryptocurrency wallets and from there onto J for what she thought was further trading. The 
evidence suggests Ms P started messaging someone from J on 16 August 2021. Between 
20 August 2021 and 5 October 2021, Ms P made a total of 16 transfers totalling £86,729 to 
different cryptocurrency wallets. Two of these were in her own name. 
In October 2021, Ms P asked for her money to be returned and was told she needed to pay 
£15,000 to access her money. It was at this point she realised it was a scam.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He considered that Monzo didnt go far enough 
and missed an opportunity to discuss the payments with Ms P from the second transaction 
on 2 September 2021 onwards. But he felt Ms P should share in the responsibility for her 
losses and recommended a 50% deduction from the refund.
Monzo didnt agree. It said the loss had occurred from the cryptocurrency providers and not 
from Ms Ps Monzo account. Ms P was not completely happy but accepted the investigators 
conclusions.
As the case couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
It is not in dispute that Ms P has fallen victim to a cruel scam. I understand this has been an 
extremely difficult time for Ms P and I am sorry to hear she has been unwell.
Did Ms P authorise the transactions?
Although its not in dispute that Ms P didnt set out to be scammed, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and general banking terms and conditions, she is 
presumed liable in the first instance if she authorised the transactions. 
When Ms P first reported the scam to Monzo, she did tell the bank she had shared her 
computer with the scammer through a remote access application. She shared her 
information with the fraudsters under the guise of them facilitating the payments for her.  
Although Ms P was tricked into doing so, by providing the information needed to execute the 
transactions to the scammer, Ms P provided apparent authority for the disputed transactions 
to be carried out. The payments were therefore authorised, even though Ms P was the victim 
of a scam. 
Should Monzo have prevented the payments from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
It is not in dispute that Ms P was duped by the scammers into instructing (or allowing them to 
instruct) the bank to transfer money to cryptocurrency accounts and on from there into the 
scammers account. The scammers deceived her over a messaging platform into thinking 
she was making a legitimate cryptocurrency investment for further trading. So, although Ms 
P did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms P is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Monzo 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and in recent years, which 
banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I appreciate the loss did not occur directly from Ms Ps Monzo account. But I dont agree that 
Monzo is not liable simply because the money was transferred to a cryptocurrency account 
in Ms Ps name and the fraud then happened from there. As Ive mentioned above, Monzo 
had a responsibility to be on the lookout for unusual activity and protect consumers from 
financial harm.
As a financial services professional, I think Monzo would have been aware at the time that 
fraudsters use genuine firms offering cryptocurrency as a way of defrauding customers and 
that these scams often involve money passing through more than one account. Cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency and both the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published specific warnings about these scams in 
2018. In my view, by the time of these transactions, Monzo had had time to understand 
these warnings and be on the look at for this particular type of fraud.
Indeed, Monzo stopped the payment on 9 November 2021, acknowledging it had concerns 
Ms P was the victim of a scam. And when Ms P revealed she was buying cryptocurrency  it 
asked her further questions around this. For example, it asked her to show the evidence that 
the account was hers and enquired as to whether anyone had approached her to buy 
cryptocurrency. So, I think Monzo did have systems in place for this exact scenario. And, it 
did expose the scam (although I accept at this point Ms P likely realised it was a scam).
I do accept there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments and it will be 
impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant number of genuine payments being 
delayed considerably and inconveniently.
I dont think the initial transfer would have caused Monzo concern  it was a small payment. 
But I agree the £9,300 payment on 20 August 2021 was large enough that it ought to have 
caused concern. Even though it was seemingly going to a genuine provider and one Ms P 
had paid to before  for the reasons explained above - the £9,300 was a payment instruction 
that Monzo ought to have realised warranted additional checks before it simply processed it 
without question. I think in a situation like this Monzo should have spoken with Ms P to check 
everything was in order, to protect her from the risk of financial harm. I have therefore 
thought about what most likely would have happened if Monzo had spoken appropriately to 
Ms P about her instructions on 20 August 2021 before it executed it.
If Monzo had asked who Ms P was paying her cryptocurrency to and/or how shed heard 
about the trading company, I think Ms P would have told them about J and that she was 
dealing with J on a social media messaging platform. With further questioning, I think Monzo 
would have been concerned about what was happening and it would have been put on 
notice that Ms P was falling victim to a scam. 
And if Monzo had given Ms P some warnings about cryptocurrency scams including telling 
her they often involve setting-up a genuine third-party account for payments to pass through 
and providing consumers with fake websites and platforms giving the appearance of 
investment returns, I think this would have caused sufficient doubt in Ms Ps mind not to 
proceed with the £9,300 payment and those payments that followed. In other words, if 
Monzo had carried out further or better questioning in line with the banks duty of care, it 
seems probable that Ms P would have become credulous about the scam in time and 
stopped the payment on 20 August 2021 in its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Ms P 
would not have lost the £9,300 payment or the payments that followed.Could Ms P have done more to mitigate her losses?
Ive thought carefully about what Monzos obligations were, as set out above. But another 
key issue is whether Ms P acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the 
scam. From the outset I think there were a number of concerns with the situation Ms P was 
getting involved with. So I think its fair that she shares responsibility for her losses. I say this 
because:
The method of communication was primary over social media messaging forums. 
Also Ms P shared her computer screens with the scammer. I appreciate she 
understood this to be so J could show her how the investment worked, but the 
scammer made some of the transfers for her. I dont think a legitimate business 
would operate like this. I think all of this ought to have caused Ms P concern.
Some of the communications with the scammer appear unprofessional and not how I 
would expect a legitimate business to interact with its clients. For example on 16 
August 2021, the scammer commented on Ms Ps profile picture you look very 
gorgeous and used terms like dear when communicating with her.
On 18 August 2021 at 13:48  when referring to the bank, the scammer said the 
scammer  if they ask how you found out about [one of the cryptocurrency providers], 
you can tell them you searched online and saw it is one of the best crypto wallets.. 
you searched that yourself if you remember. A genuine organisation wouldnt 
encourage an investor to lie to their bank and I think this ought reasonably to have 
caused Ms P concern.
It seems on 23 August 2021 Ms P did have some concerns and explained to the 
scammer that she had kept getting blocked and needed to verify things. Her email to 
support had been blocked by the server and calls went to a private branch exchange. 
When she called the support number she was cut off.
I appreciate Ms P did seek reassurances, but it was from the organisation she had concerns 
about. Overall, I think there were enough red flags that ought reasonably to have raised 
significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity. That, in turn, ought to have led to 
a greater degree of checking on Ms Ps part. I appreciate Ms P did do some research online 
and found positive reviews and J appeared to have a legitimate website. But overall, I dont 
think this was enough to disregard some of the clearer warning signs here.
On that basis, I think its reasonable for Ms P to share the responsibility with Monzo and 
reduce the refund on all of the payments by 50%. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms P, Monzo Bank Ltd should refund all the payments Ms P 
made from the payment of £9,300 on 20 August 2021 onwards. 
It should deduct any returns Ms P received from the investment (£812.95) before reducing 
the loss by 50%.
Interest1 at the originating account rates should be added to the reduced amount above from 
the date of transaction to the date of settlement.
1 If Monzo is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Ms P a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Monzo Bank Ltd to put 
things right for Ms P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman