DRN-2301592
The complaint
Mr G complains about the administration of his motor insurance policy with CIS General 
Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance.
 
What happened
Mr G purchased a policy with Co-Op and was asked how many years no claim discount 
(NCD) hed earnt on previous policies. He told Co-Op that he had five years NCD and his 
policy was priced accordingly.
Mr G was sent the welcome pack and within it Co-Op said it would need to see proof that 
Mr G had the five years NCD he said he had. It said if it didnt receive this information it 
might cancel or increase the price of the policy.
Co-Op didnt receive the proof of Mr Gs NCD and so sent him an email saying the price of 
his policy (his premium) would now increase by £660.80 and that a £15 admin fee was also 
due. This email explained that Mr G owed Co-Op a further £675.80 in total.
The same day the email was sent Mr G contacted Co-Op and provided proof of his NCD. But 
his proof showed Mr G had three years NCD, not the five he said he had. This generated a 
refund due on the policy of £618.51 and an email was sent to Mr G explaining this.
Mr G then contacted Co-Op as hed not received the refund he thought he was getting. The 
agent then processed the refund and Mr G received the £618.51 he was expecting.
On review Co-Op realised that Mr G wasnt due a refund. It said it never took the additional 
premium it said it needed to in the first email and the refund was based on him paying that 
additional premium. It said it also didnt mention that Mr Gs policy was still more expensive 
than what hed already paid it. It said Mr G owed it a further £57.29, in addition to him 
needing to return the refund of £618.51 it paid him in error. It explained Mr G owed it 
£675.80 in total.
Mr G wasnt happy with this, he thought he shouldnt have to return the money Co-Op paid 
him in error. He said he thought that was his money, and had this confirmed by an agent at 
Co-Op so had since spent it.
Co-Op said as it was money that shouldnt have been refunded to Mr G, it needed it 
returned. And it said the increase in premium was due too because that was the correct 
price of the policy based on him having three years NCD not five as hed said he had. It said 
it had caused some confusion and so reduced the amount Mr owed by £100. It said Mr G 
needed to pay £575.80 back and that he could do so in instalments spread over time. Mr G 
said he couldnt afford the first suggested repayment plan Co-Op offered. But a repayment 
plan has now been agreed.
Mr G wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint and agreed the money Co-Op was chasing was due. She thought Co-Ops offer to 
reduce the balance owed by £100 was fair compensation for the confusion and 
inconvenience it caused throughout the process.
Mr G didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Most of this complaint revolves around the refund Co-Op gave to Mr G and then asked to be 
returned to it. But to explain why Im satisfied Co-Op is acting fairly here, itll help to explain 
what led to that refund being given, and why giving it to Mr G was an error.
When Mr G took out the policy, he told Co-Op that he had five years NCD. The price of his 
policy, his premium, was then calculated using this information. Co-Op is entitled to request 
proof of this, and did so. It let Mr G know that if proof wasnt provided it might cancel his 
policy, or it may need to charge more for it.
It didnt receive this information in the time given and so it sent Mr G an email letting him 
know the price of his policy had increased. This is because instead of being priced with five 
years NCD, it was being priced with no NCD at all as Mr G hadnt provided proof of his. An 
email was sent letting him know the amount the policy would increase by and how much he 
owed Co-Op. Importantly at this point the price of the policy changed, but no more money 
was received by Co-Op.
Mr G then sent in proof of his NCD. This showed he had three years not the five he claimed 
he had. At this point in time, the policy was priced on the basis he had zero years NCD. So it 
thought a refund was due.
Had Mr G paid the additional amount Co-Op said was due in the first email, then he would 
have been due the refund set out in the second. But he didnt, so the refund was never due.
To help explain:
Mr Gs policy was rated with having five years NCD and priced as such.
After not receiving the NCD his policy was re-rated with him having no NCD, 
generating an increased premium of £660.80 plus an admin fee of £15. But this 
wasnt ever taken.
Mr G then provided proof of three years NCD. The policy was re-rated from him 
having no NCD to him having three years NCD. This assumed Mr G had paid the 
increased premium and generated a refund of £618.51. But Mr G wasnt due this as 
hes never paid the increase.
The refund shouldnt have been given as it was generated on the basis that Mr G had paid 
the increase in premium which he hadnt. Im satisfied this refund was in error and as such is 
money owed to Co-Op.
This is somewhat confusing. But what has essentially happened is that Mr Gs policy was set 
up and priced on the basis he had five years NCD. When it should have been set up with 
him having three years NCD. Its fair Mr G pays for the policy based on the correct amount of NCD hes able to evidence. And this is £57.29 more than what he paid. So Im satisfied 
the increase in premium is also money owed to Co-Op.
I understand Mr G was told the money was his, and that hes since spent it, and I understand 
the lack of clarity around the whole situation is confusing. But ultimately, Im satisfied the 
money Co-Op say is due, is due.
I understand Mr G has said he shouldnt have to return it as it was given to him. And 
although it was given in error hes said he was told the money was his and hes since spent 
it. I do have some understanding here, but I think its clear the refund was a mistake. Mr G 
ultimately has a policy priced with two years less NCD than when he took it out. This was 
always likely to increase the price of his policy not decrease it, and certainly not to the tune 
of £618.51.
That said, Co-Op havent helped and could have been a lot clearer throughout. I think 
agreeing a repayment plan and waiving £100 for the balance due is a fair offer of 
compensation for the part it played.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against CIS General 
Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman