DRN-3400186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unreasonably refused their 
critical illness claim.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a term assurance policy in November 2003. It offered them 
decreasing term life assurance and critical illness cover with an initial sum assured of 
£30,000 over an 18-year term.  
In April 2016, Mrs C sadly became seriously unwell and collapsed into unconsciousness. 
She required hospitalisation and was placed in a medically induced coma for one week. She 
had an emergency operation due to an infected kidney and suspected sepsis. Mrs C suffers 
ongoing issues with her mobility since the operation and has been diagnosed with diabetes. 
Mr and Mrs C later called Aviva in October 2020 to pursue a claim for critical illness benefit 
under the policy definition of coma, which required use of life support for a specified period 
causing permanent neurological damage.  
In January 2021, Aviva rejected the claim. It said that Mrs Cs GP had confirmed there was 
no remaining neurological deficit as a result of her coma.
Mr and Mrs C complained, but Aviva was not willing to change its view on the claim. It wrote 
to them in September 2021 explaining that its chief medical officer (CMO) had not seen any 
confirmed evidence that the ongoing pain and altered sensation issues Mrs C experiences 
were as a direct result of her induced coma.  
So, the complaint was referred to this service, where it was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. Mr and Mrs C said Mrs C has a permanent walking impairment and a change 
to her vision requiring glasses since she was in the coma  which was also permanent. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. She said that the medical 
evidence she had seen did not show clear evidence of permanent neurological deficit and 
the policy definition of coma required that evidence. So she didnt think Aviva had acted 
unfairly when refusing the claim.  
Mr C said he and Mrs C did not agree with the investigator. He made a number of further 
detailed submissions, noting that:
our investigator seems to have disregarded the view of Dr P, who confirmed Mrs Cs 
ongoing issues were neuropathic;
neuropathic nerve pain is common after an intensive care unit (ICU) stay;
they therefore cannot understand how Aviva has ignored this;
it seems Dr P has been disregarded because he is a pain specialist and not a 
neurologist;
the medication Mrs C has received from Dr P treats nerve pain;
it is Dr P that has seen Mrs C face to face;
when he examined Mrs C in 2017, he ruled out sciatica as the cause of her pain;
it is unfair that one medical opinion is being disregarded over another merely 
because the neurologist simply asserts Mrs Cs pain is non-neuropathic;
though Aviva initially rejected the claim, it was then sent Dr Ps view which resolved 
its conclusion about sciatica being the cause of Mrs Cs pain;
instead Aviva ignored this and sourced the view from a neurologist where he did not 
give any other reason for the cause of Mrs Cs pain;
they cannot understand how Mrs Cs inability to walk since having been in the coma 
(due to pain and weakness in her leg) is being persistently overlooked;
they question how Aviva will ever pay out on anything when all it has to do is find one 
specialist who backs its view, a view which somehow seems to render any other 
specialist's diagnosis worthless;
Mrs C has been left mildly diabetic because of suffering from sepsis but this has not 
caused the pain in her legs;
Dr Ps diagnosis met the policy wording of coma, and now Aviva is trying to move the 
goalposts.  
Our investigator did reflect on Mr and Mrs Cs additional points but she was not persuaded to 
change her view. She agreed that Mrs Cs GP notes had attributed Mrs Cs leg pain to 
sciatica, whereas Dr P had disputed this cause. However, though he went on to suggest the 
pain in Mrs Cs foot/leg was neuropathic, he believed this could be associated with diabetes.  
What she had not seen was medical confirmation that Mrs C was suffering permanent 
neurological damage as a result of being in a coma in 2016. Consequently, she couldnt 
conclude that Aviva had been unfair in refusing the claim, as the policy wording required this 
confirmation.  
Aviva also made some further comments. It said:
at the initial stage of the claim, Mrs C said she had no neurological deficit following 
her coma;
to be fair to Mrs C, Aviva obtained a GP report anyway;
the GP also confirmed in express terms that Mrs C had no remaining neurological 
deficit from her coma;
this was cross referenced with letters from three other treating doctors (Dr M, Dr B 
and Dr L) and none of these professionals referred to ongoing neurological deficit;
the conclusion that the ongoing treatment of two medications prescribed to Mrs C 
was for sciatica was reasonable in the circumstances;
and so, it was fair to refuse the claim;
it only had sight of Dr Ps report from 2017 when Mrs C appealed;
Dr P doesnt confirm the matter definitively either;
that doesnt mean Dr P has been dismissed or the goalposts moved, rather there is 
no clear evidence to satisfy the claim by showing permanent neurological damage;
it is not unreasonable to conclude that diabetes may be the cause of Mrs Cs foot 
pain, given she had further hospitalisation for diabetes matters in December 2020;
its not for Aviva to show Mrs C doesnt meet the definition, its for Mrs C as the 
insured person to prove she meets it, which has not been done in this case. 
The complaint was then referred to an ombudsman, at Mr and Mrs Cs request. They noted 
finally how if a policyholder had to meet every aspect of the definition, then Aviva would 
never pay out on claims. They cannot understand how Mrs Cs situation isnt sufficient for a 
claim to be successful.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to learn of the particularly difficult circumstances that Mr and Mrs C have 
faced and I realise that revisiting the events of Mrs Cs hospitalisation in 2016 has been 
upsetting for them. 
Having looked at everything carefully, I am also of the view that Aviva fairly refused the 
claim. Ill set out my reasons for that below. For Aviva to pay a claim for critical illness benefit 
for the listed event of coma, the following terms need to be met during the period set out on 
the policy schedule:
 
Coma - a state of unconsciousness with no reaction to external stimuli or internal 
needs, persisting continuously with the use of life support systems for a period of at 
least 96 hours and resulting in Permanent Neurological Damage.
In respect of permanent neurological damage, the policy says:
Permanent Neurological Damage shall mean definite demonstrable symptoms of 
damage to the central nervous system that are expected to last throughout the 
lifetime of the Life Assured, irrespective of when the cover ends or the Life Assured 
retires. These symptoms include numbness, hyperaesthesia (increased sensitivity), 
paralysis, localised weakness, dysarthria (difficult speech), aphasia (inability to 
speak), dysphagia (difficulty swallowing), visual impairment, difficulty walking, 
incoordination, tremor, seizures, dementia, delirium or coma. It does not include 
findings on a scan alone without any residual physical or mental symptoms being 
present.
Aviva is obliged to pay a claim when Mrs C is confirmed as suffering from a coma as defined 
in the policy terms, rather than the wider sense of having been in a coma. Put another way, 
a person who was placed into a coma without any permanent neurological deficit would not 
meet the severity required to be a critical illness under Mr and Mrs Cs policy. Therefore, the 
applicable terms need to be met in full.
There are a number of aspects to the above wording that all have to be satisfied in order for 
a claim to be paid. In respect of being placed in a coma for one week, Mrs C met the first 
part of the policy definition and exceeded the time frame set out.  
Where the parties disagree is 1) the existence of permanent neurological damage/deficit in 
accordance with the policy terms and 2) that the damage resulted from the coma, and not 
some other reason.  
From the first claim assessment, I can understand why Aviva reached the view it did. The 
GP report said Mrs Cs coma was a medically induced one due to a kidney abscess and 
undiagnosed diabetes causing a ketoacidosis episode. It also said there was no remaining 
neurological deficit from her coma and that she also takes [two named medications] for 
sciatica. 
However, the GP didnt reference the ongoing pain management support Mrs C has 
received. Mr and Mrs C understandably appealed Avivas decision. Mrs C has told our 
investigator how she had home-based nurse care, initially using a walker, then two sticks for 
several months. After a year, she began mobilising with one stick which she still uses due to 
the numbness/pain in her foot (and sometimes into her leg). The nurse identified that Mrs Cs pain was nerve-based, so she was referred to Dr P.  
I accept that looking at the definition of permanent neurological damage above, Mrs C 
displays symptoms that meet several of the types of damage including numbness, localised 
weakness, visual impairment and difficulty walking. Its for that reason Mr and Mrs C 
supplied the evidence in the report of April 2017 from Dr P.  
Despite this, Ive not seen clear evidence that Mrs C suffered from a coma which caused 
permanent neurological deficit during the policy term. What Dr P says in the report is that:
I explained to her that it's quite possible that the pain in her foot is neuropathic. 
Given the examination findings and the description of pain I explained to her that I do 
not think she has sciatica. We have agreed the following management plan
Dr P then goes on to discuss medication and alternative treatments for Mrs Cs symptoms. 
Notwithstanding establishing that the symptoms were caused by Mrs Cs coma, to determine 
that neurological damage is permanent, the evidence would need to show that all 
reasonable treatment options had been exhausted, including medical and physical therapies. 
Avivas view is that Mrs Cs undiagnosed medical history has caused her symptoms rather 
than the coma itself. It feels a coma was used to rest Mrs C to recover for surgery, rather 
than the coma causing any damage. I havent seen any clear evidence of that either. But 
unfortunately, the evidence supplied thus far doesnt show the policy wording to be met. 
I know Mr and Mrs C take the view that Mrs Cs symptoms must be permanent because Mrs 
C has peripheral neuropathic nerve damage lasting more than eighteen months. But that is 
not the case  the policy wording is clear that they must persist for the lifetime of the insured 
person.  From the information theyve supplied there is no clear confirmation that at any time 
before November 2021 (when the policy ended) the symptoms were 1) caused by the coma 
and 2) that they are expected to last throughout Mrs Cs lifetime.
The medical evidence does not give any professional assessment as to the cause of Mrs Cs 
symptoms  what is set out is that Dr P doesnt agree with the GP that they are attributable 
to sciatica; he does not go on to establish their likely cause or determine their permanency. 
Mr and Mrs C may feel the wording is unfair, so I will explain further about policies of this 
nature. Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, 
insurers can decide what illnesses and events they will cover in protection policies. Industry 
guidance from the Association of British Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to 
use in critical illness policies, and the guidance expressly says how insurers are free to 
decide on the conditions and exclusions applicable to their products. 
The wording used by Aviva for the critical illness of coma set out above does accord with the 
proposed model wording suggested by the ABI at the time the policy was taken out. I do not 
therefore believe it has acted unfairly in assessing Mr and Mrs Cs claim against their policy 
wording above, particularly where this is proposed by the ABIs minimum standards.   
I know Mr and Mrs C feel strongly that her circumstances should warrant a retrospective 
claim payment. But my view is that the refusal of a claim for a condition or event which does 
not meet all of the key requirements within a specified policy term is, in most circumstances, 
a reasonable action for an insurer to take.
Mr and Mrs C remain free to seek further retrospective medical evidence. If they wish to do 
so, they can provide it to Aviva in the first instance. Similarly, they would be able to bring a new complaint to this service, if the claim is refused on fresh grounds. As it stands, Im 
unable to direct Aviva to change its decision because for the reasons Ive set out above and 
based on the information Ive seen to date, it hasnt acted unfairly in refusing the claim.
My final decision
I am not able to uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman