DRN-3481736
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H have complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Bank 
of Scotland charged Mrs H and Mr H a monthly fee for the URCA and provided several 
potential benefits in return.
Mrs H and Mr H think that Bank of Scotland should refund them all the fees they paid, plus 
interest.  
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H have banked with Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of Scotland 
has sent us information to show that from the late 1980s until May 2011 they held several 
different types of fee-free account. It then sold them the URCA, which I understand they 
kept until 2019.
I previously sent Bank of Scotland and Mrs H and Mr H a provisional decision on this 
complaint. In that provisional decision, I said that I was likely to uphold the complaint and 
explained why. I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence they 
wanted me to consider before I made a final decision.
Both parties have now responded to say that they have accepted my provisional 
decision, and have not made any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs H and Mr H and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us 
about the complaint, and Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why in a moment, but first I 
would like to point out that as neither Bank of Scotland nor Mrs H and Mr H have sent us 
anything new, much of what follows is identical to what I said in my provisional decision.
In 2011, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only 
(or non-advised) basis, or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach 
Bank of Scotland used for Mrs H and Mr H, I would have expected it to give them a clear 
choice and tell them about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly. And in an 
advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if they needed the benefits which the 
account could provide before making any recommendation.
Both parties have said that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mrs H and Mr H during a 
meeting at one of its branches, but they have disagreed about whether it was an advised 
or non-advised sale. Mrs H and Mr H have said it was advised and Bank of Scotland has 
said non-advised.
As so much time has passed since 2011, I cant tell for sure which approach Bank
of Scotland used. But based on what Mrs H and Mr H have told us, Im satisfied that at 
the time they certainly believed that Bank of Scotland was advising them to buy the 
URCA. I have therefore considered their complaint to be about a recommended sale.
Mrs H and Mr H have told us that they had an overdraft with their fee-free account and 
needed to keep it. The crux of their complaint is that they think Bank of Scotland told 
them overdrafts would no longer be available with fee-free accounts and left them with no 
choice but to buy an URCA. They have been very consistent and precise in this 
throughout our investigation. They have told us that Bank of Scotland said they needed to 
upgrade (to the URCA) to qualify for (their) overdraft because (they) were no longer able 
to qualify on (their) existing account. They have made many similar remarks.
I have seen some of Mrs H and Mr Hs bank statements which show that they did 
overdraw their account quite frequently. They have pointed out that in May 2011 they had 
a child with significant disabilities and they were preoccupied with arranging care for his 
needs. Theyve told us that Bank of Scotland said the URCA was the right account for 
grown-ups and remember being furious that they had to change accounts and pay 
monthly fees. Theyve explained that they signed a form Bank of Scotland gave them to 
buy the URCA as it had led them to believe there was no alternative. Contextually, they 
have added that they had to fill in many forms to secure care for their child and Bank of 
Scotland presented the URCA as something else for which they simply had to sign up.
Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting, so I cant tell for sure what Bank of Scotland 
said, or didnt say, to Mrs H and Mr H. Nor do I know the extent to which they discussed 
their family situation with Bank of Scotland. (This was, of course, an entirely private matter 
over which Mrs H and Mr H had total discretion about how much they chose to disclose). 
But, from the clarity of Mrs H and Mr Hs testimony, Im satisfied that in their particular 
case Bank of Scotland did not give them a fair and clear choice.
Bank of Scotlands failure to allow Mrs H and Mr H a choice gives me sufficient grounds 
on its own to uphold their complaint. However, even if it had given them a choice,  I dont 
think its recommendation was appropriate.
In May 2011, the URCA provided a mixture of banking and non-banking benefits. The 
main non-banking benefits were travel insurance, use of a car breakdown service and 
insurance for mobile phones.
Mrs H and Mr H have told us that they travelled quite rarely, but when they did they 
needed highly personalised insurance for their child. I accept this. I doubt that the travel 
insurance the URCA provided met their specific needs. Mrs H and Mr H have also told us 
that they had a company car and so had little or no need for the car breakdown service, 
which again I accept. On our questionnaire, they ticked a box to say that in May 2011 they 
didnt have a smart phone and so had no need for mobile phone insurance (although it 
seems they bought such phones later on). So, it seems to me that Mrs H and Mr H had 
very little, if any, need for the main non-banking benefits of the URCA. I dont think Bank of 
Scotland was justified in recommending the URCA to Mrs H and Mr H for these benefits.
The main banking benefit of the URCA in 2011 related to overdrafts. Subject to certain 
conditions, Bank of Scotland would apply lower charges and raise lower interest for 
customers with URCAs than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. Depending 
on exactly how customers used their overdrafts, they could save more in charges and interest by having an URCA than they paid in monthly fees. Given the importance of an 
overdraft to Mrs H and Mr H, this is particularly important in their complaint and is 
pertinent to whether Bank of Scotlands recommendation was reasonable.
Firstly, I would like to clarify that whatever Bank of Scotland said to Mrs H and Mr H during 
the meeting, its lending rules would almost certainly have allowed them to continue to 
have an overdraft with their fee-free account. If it had looked closely at their overdraft 
usage in the months leading up to the meeting and discussed if/how this may have 
changed in the following months, then it may have been reasonable for it to advise them to 
buy an URCA. For example, if it had seemed likely that Mrs H and Mr H would save more 
on the overdraft with an URCA than they would pay in monthly fees for a significant period, 
then it would have been fair for Bank of Scotland to advise them to buy one. But, I have 
not seen any evidence that Bank of Scotland did this. I dont think it was justified in 
recommending the URCA to Mrs H and Mr H for the banking benefits.
In summary, it seems to me that during the meeting Mrs H and Mr H certainly and 
justifiably believed that Bank of Scotland advised them to buy an URCA and that:
Bank of Scotland misled them about overdrafts and failed to give them a fair choice,
made an unreasonable recommendation.
I therefore think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mrs H and Mr H. It should 
now put thinks right for them by paying them appropriate compensation. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs H and Mr H, Bank of Scotland should put them into the 
financial position they would have been in if it hadnt sold them the URCA.
.
It should therefore:
refund Mrs H and Mr H each of the fees they paid for the URCA,
add simple interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year from the 
date Mrs H and Mr H paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. 
Bank of Scotland must give Mrs H and Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has 
taken if they ask for one.
If Bank of Scotland can show that Mrs H and Mr H gained financially from any of the 
banking benefits that came with the URCA,  (for example, they may well have saved some 
money when they overdrew their account), then it may deduct the relevant amount from 
the compensation worked out as above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its 
calculation clearly and simply for Mrs H and Mr H, so they can follow what it has done. For 
Mrs H and Mr Hs benefit, I would like to point out that deductions of this type can 
sometimes be quite large.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint that Bank 
of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold them an URCAUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman