DRN-3983052
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy My Policy Limited has charged £75 to cancel the motor insurance policy it 
set up. Hes also unhappy with the service he received.
What happened
Mr S took car insurance through a price comparison site on 13 September 2022 and My 
Policy was the broker that introduced him to the insurer the following day. Mr S said he was 
charged £75 to cancel the policy and he doesnt think thats fair because it was only in place 
for a matter of days. 
My policy said Mr Ss father called on 15 September to validate the policy and it discovered 
Mr Ss date of birth had been entered incorrectly. The year of birth given made Mr S appear 
one year older than he actually was. My Policy said the insurer would no longer offer the 
policy because he had to be at least 19 years of age  which the validation process 
determined he was underage. My Policy said Mr S could either cancel the policy and incur 
the £75 cancellation charge, or the insurer could void the policy  which would have a 
significant impact on Mr Ss ability to acquire insurance in the future.   
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said there was no evidence of the error 
occurring at My Policys end, nor was there evidence of the price comparison site supplying 
incorrect information. He explained that because My Policy effectively fulfilled its obligations 
by introducing him to an insurer and setting up the policy, the cancellation charge had been 
applied fairly. He also didnt uphold the service issues complained about by Mr S. 
Mr S disagreed with his findings and requested an ombudsman make a final decision  
which Ill now go on to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have decided not to uphold this complaint and for similar reasons 
already explained by our investigator. The crux of this issue is whether My Policy is entitled 
to charge a cancellation fee for what Mr S perceives to be little work. To be clear, I 
understand the reasons Mr S disagrees with My Policys position, but I cant say Im 
persuaded by what he says here. Ill explain why. 
The policy was started on 14 September 2022. Mr S was sent the policy documents 
through My Policys portal the day before to check and ensure the information given 
was correct. Mr Ss father called My Policy the following day and it was determined 
the date of birth provided was incorrect. Im satisfied this error wasnt My Policys. I 
say that because it discovered Mr S had completed other applications with the same 
incorrect date of birth. The issue here is that by making Mr S effectively appear one 
year older, wouldve given him an advantage when looking for motor insurance 
quotes, as it did in these circumstances. The insurer Mr S was introduced to wouldnt 
have offered him a policy had it known his correct age. 
Mr Ss father was told that Mr S would personally need to cancel the policy, which 
didnt happen until 22 September. Ive considered Mr Ss reasons for the delay in 
cancelling the policy, but I dont consider them persuasive enough to waive the 
additional costs in this case. Mr S was unable to call My Policy on 16 September, 
when it told Mr Ss father, hed need to cancel the policy, because he was working. 
My Policy then provided an email address so that Mr S could notify it of his intended 
cancellation, which I thought was fair. And so, because Mr S didnt do this until 22 
September, hes likely to incur costs from the insurer for the days it was effectively on 
cover. 
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that the insurer wouldve still covered a 
successful claim brought by a third-party during that time. In other words, had Mr S 
been involved in an accident during that time and a claim brought against him, the 
insurer wouldve considered the third-partys damage, but not Mr Ss. I should 
perhaps say that if Mr S had managed to secure alternative cover within that period, 
then he should provide this information so the insurer can consider whether to reduce 
the charge for the days its charged Mr S for cover.
Im satisfied the £75 cancellation fee has been charged fairly in the circumstances of 
this complaint because its made clear in My Policys terms. To be clear, the terms 
say;
a charge may apply for any period of cover provided, and, in addition, an 
administration charge of £75.00 
The charge applies because My Policy completed the work it was supposed to, which 
was to introduce Mr S to a prospective insurer and set up a policy. Im satisfied it 
fulfilled its obligations here, but unfortunately, the information provided by Mr S was 
incorrect. And so, My Policy is entitled to apply the cancellation charge in the 
circumstances. 
Ive considered other suggestions made so that Mr S avoids paying the charge, 
which involve the insurer voiding the policy. I thought it reasonable that My Policy 
highlighted the significant impact this would have on Mr Ss ability to gain any 
insurance in the future. I say that because hed have to declare a policy voidance to 
all future insurers across all areas of insurance and I agree this would present an 
issue gaining insurance in the future. 
Im also not upholding the service issues Mr S complained about. I wanted to 
acknowledge Mr Ss frustrations about being on hold for excessive amounts of time. 
My Policy also apologised to him for that, although it said Mr S wasnt kept waiting for 
longer than its average wait times. And so, whilst this was understandably upsetting, 
Mr S wasnt treated unfairly here because Ive not seen any evidence to show the 
wait times were excessive. Ive also not seen any evidence that showed My Policy 
acted unprofessionally throughout the handling of this issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman