DRN-3619196
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited didnt refund him a payment he made to an 
online dating website. 
What happened
Mr B paid about £100 to an online dating website using his Starling Bank Mastercard debit 
card. He wasnt happy with the quality of the service he was receiving and asked the website 
for a refund. He didnt receive a reply. So, Mr B contacted Starling Bank to dispute the 
transaction hed made. He said the website didnt work as he was unable to see profile 
photographs of other members. And those that did get in touch were fake. He said the 
website wasnt as described and wasnt fit for purpose. 
Starling Bank explained what evidence Mastercard would need to see to enable it to proceed 
with a chargeback claim. It said Mr B would need to provide a clear written description to 
show how the service he paid for was different to the service hed received. Mr B said he 
couldnt provide any further evidence and he complained. Starling Bank didnt uphold the 
complaint and said the information Mr B had provided wasnt sufficient to meet Mastercards 
evidentiary threshold. Mr B wasnt happy and so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Starling Bank needed to do anything more. She thought it had 
handled Mr Bs claim for a chargeback fairly by asking for the evidence it would need. And 
as Mr B wasnt able to provide that evidence, she thought it was fair for Starling Bank not to 
proceed with the chargeback as it wasnt likely to be successful. 
As Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view, the case has been forwarded to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process provided by the relevant card scheme  in this case Mastercard. 
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made but, if the right 
to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a claim to be made.
But for a successful claim to be made to Mastercard, Starling Bank would need to have 
enough evidence to show that the service Mr B paid for was different from the service hed 
received.  
Starling Bank decided there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success if they pursued the 
matter further with Mastercard. And, having carefully considered the evidence, I think that 
was a fair and reasonable decision. 
The Mastercard rules for chargebacks says that when considering a claim that the goods or 
services were not as described or not provided, a description of the complaint must be 
provided in sufficient detail, along with a reasonably specific description of the service that 
had been paid for.
Mr B provided the invoice hed received, plus the terms of use of the website. He said hed 
not been able to view the photographs of other members on the site and the members that 
had got in touch were fake. Starling Bank asked Mr B for evidence to show the service hed 
received wasnt the same as hed paid for. But Mr B said he couldnt provide anything more 
than hed already given. 
While Mr B said that other member profiles on the site were fake, the terms of the website 
say it accepts no liability for the accuracy of user profiles shown in its system, or their 
interpretation as regards compatibility. And it goes on to say that the website is only 
responsible for the contact mediation, not for the success of the contact.
In light of the above, and without further evidence to show the service he received wasnt as 
described, I think Starling Bank acted fairly in concluding there wasnt a reasonable prospect 
of successfully pursuing Mr Bs chargeback any further.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr Bs experienced but I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Starling Bank to refund the money he paid to the online dating website. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman