DRN-4023285
The complaint
Mrs E complained about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan, in 2009. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused her a financial loss.
Grove Pension Solutions Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. Mrs E herself is 
represented in bringing this complaint by a company. So, to keep things simple Ill refer to 
Grove and Mrs E respectively. 
What happened
Mrs E approached Grove to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Information gathered 
by Grove about Mrs E at the time was broadly as follows:
Mrs E was 55 years old living with her husband who was 46. They had no-one else 
financially dependent on them at the time. 
Mr and Mrs E worked in the same sector and occupied a tied property at the time. 
Their earnings were £820 each (net) per month. Mrs E owed just over £13,000 on a 
combination credit cards, an overdraft, a loan, and had a debt consolidation plan. 
She and Mr E had no other financial assets recorded at the time. Mr E also had some 
debts.
Mrs E was a deferred member of an OPS, having joined the scheme in the mid-
1990s and had accrued 11 years of pensionable benefits. The cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of her OPS in 2009 was £60,112 with a normal retirement age 
of 60.
Mrs E had other pensions which are not the subject of this complaint.
Mrs E complained to Grove in 2021 that she was given unsuitable advice. However, Grove 
says that in its dealings with Mrs E, it first told her that it didnt think she ought to transfer 
away from her DB scheme at all. It said it told her that the pension outside the scheme would 
be unlikely to grow to an extent that made transferring worthwhile. It also pointed out shed 
lose some valuable benefits if she transferred away.
However, Grove says Mrs E became an insistent client  a term used within the industry 
when a client wants to go against what was recommended to them by their adviser. It says 
that only when Mrs E insisted, did it then go on to make a second recommendation which 
was in accordance with her expressed wishes: that she transfer to a personal pension plan, 
take a 25% tax-free lump sum, and invest the rest in a money market fund within a personal 
pension wrapper. Grove says it facilitated the transfer in accordance with her being an 
insistent client and provided her with a number of warnings about what she was doing.
The complaint has been referred to our Service and one of our Investigators recently looked 
into it. Whilst they thought Grove hadnt treated Mrs E completely fairly when categorising 
her as an insistent client, they noted its initial advice, on two occasions, had been not to 
transfer away from her existing DB scheme. The investigator also said that, ultimately, Mrs E 
would have most likely still transferred away in any event. This was because she seemed to 
be determined to do so and had cited a number of personal reasons for transferring. The 
investigator therefore recommended that we shouldnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs E doesnt agree with this. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. Having considered all these things, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Issues of consistency with the complaint
I accept, of course, that 2009 is a long time ago and that recollections of the events will not 
be easy. I also have no doubts that Mrs E will have attempted to recall what happened to the 
best of her ability and is likely being honest and genuine in doing so.
However, I also think its fair and relevant to point out that her recollections directly conflict 
with some of the documented evidence we have from the time of the advice. Ive noted, for 
example, that in bringing her complaint now, Mrs E says that she had no outstanding debts 
at the time. As I explain below, this is a highly relevant factor on which the decision about 
this case could turn. But Im afraid that her saying she had no debts directly conflicts with 
what is recorded on the original fact-find, the suitability letter and what she herself said at the time. The first of these documents broke down all Mrs Es debts into various different 
elements, whilst the second document also referred to and describes them in the context of 
her needing some money to make repayments. Ive also seen that Mrs E made her own 
written references to her debts in places.
Mrs E also said she was never told not to transfer her pension by Grove. In fact, she implies 
now that Grove went out of its way to promote that it could make her better off by leaving the 
DB scheme and investing elsewhere, but I dont think this is right either. The facts very 
clearly show, as outlined in the suitability letter, that Mrs E was told by the adviser that 
achieving a higher growth rate was definitely not possible. He also said, I wrote [to you] on 7 
October [2009] confirming my recommendation to you not to release your pension early and 
my reasons why. As this was an important document in the advice process and one which 
Mrs E seems to have been eager to receive, I feel strongly that she would have wanted to 
read the contents carefully. 
Finally, I note Mrs E says she wasnt ever provided with any alternatives to transferring away 
from the DB scheme. Again, the evidence Ive seen points the other way as these are once 
again listed in the suitability letter.
So, whilst Ive carefully noted everything Mrs E has said and also whats been said on her 
behalf, these are material inconsistencies which Ive taken into account when arriving at a 
decision.
Financial viability of transferring 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between her deferred 
DB scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, Grove referred in its transfer analysis 
to a critical yield rate.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
The critical yield here gives a good indication of the overall financial value of Mrs Es pension 
and what she would be giving up by transferring out. Grove said that the critical yield 
required to match Mrs Es full benefits at the age of 60 was 17.2%. This figure alone 
suggests a growth rate that is highly unlikely to be achievable.
The discount rate, something I consider can provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
could have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given, was only 
5.4% for five years to retirement. Also, we know that the regulators own lower-growth 
projection  the one I consider to be most accurate for Mrs Es attitude to risk (ATR) - was 
only 5% at the time. 
However, it isnt really disputed that transferring wasnt right for Mrs E. After all, this is the 
overall basis of Mrs Es current complaint. And Grove itself says its recommendation was not 
to transfer, based as it was on the unachievable critical yield rate and the very good pension 
benefits Mrs E already enjoyed inside her current scheme. 
So, I agree with both parties that transferring out wasnt in Mrs Es best interests as shed 
likely be worse off in retirement.
The advice processThe crux of this complaint is really about the way Grove advised Mrs E after the initial 
recommendation. Although it initially told her not to transfer, it later accepted her request to 
do so, nonetheless. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mrs E was very keen to access her pension as she saw it as 
the only way to release cash which she thought she needed there and then. Mrs E told 
Grove that she wanted to pay off some debts and that her previous experience of debt 
management plans was expensive and not right for her. Further to this, she had an 
upcoming family event she wanted to help gift some money towards and she wanted to take 
a holiday. She made it plain that shed been living on her overdraft for some time and had 
endured debt for quite a few years. So, each of these aspirations would be part-paid for by 
the pension transfer and the flexibility this would bring. The evidence shows Mrs E was keen 
from the outset that the whole process would hopefully be concluded as soon as possible. 
So, from the beginning of the advice process, I think it was obvious that Mrs E was pre-
disposed to accessing her pension to unlock its value in cash. 
I say these things to help balance the narrative put forward by Mrs Es representative that it 
was Grove which first approached Mrs E rather than the other way around. The 
representative also says Grove advised Mrs E that it would be better for her to transfer from 
her DB scheme, that she was not properly informed of any benefits that she would be losing 
by transferring out, and that Mrs E was told that the new scheme would be much better for 
her. The representative says Mrs E was specifically told by Grove that transferring would 
enable her to invest and make more money and that this would be better in the long run. 
Mrs E says it was on this basis that she agreed to transfer.
However, I dont think any of this is supported by the evidence from the time. Ive seen 
nothing which suggests Grove wanted to persuade Mrs E to transfer this pension. In fact, the 
evidence is much more persuasive that Grove was always against transferring and it first 
told Mrs E this in an email of 7 October 2009. It seems Mrs E contested that advice and 
made it clear she still wanted to proceed with moving away from her DB scheme and into a 
personal pension plan. But Grove wrote to Mrs E again the next day, 8 October 2009, 
formally setting out its position. In my view, Grove was unequivocal here in recommending 
that no such transfer should take place. And in doing so, its advice referred to the critical 
yield not being achievable and also to the value of the wider pension benefits Mrs E would 
lose if she left the DB scheme.
Was Mrs E an insistent client?
After the contact the parties had in respect of the 8 October suitability letter, I think Mrs E 
made it plain she was still against Groves no transfer advice. 
Grove says this meant Mrs E became an insistent client and that accordingly, it followed a 
process it had designed to deal with such situations. Grove says that at this point, after their 
dialog about the merits of leaving her pension where it was, it was satisfied shed been given 
the right initial advice, suitable warnings about leaving had been provided, and Mrs E had 
been given a chance to reflect on what Grove was really recommending she should do. 
However, Grove says that as Mrs E continued to make it clear she still wanted to transfer the 
pension, it helped facilitate this with her pension provider and the DB pension was moved to 
a personal plan as per her wishes. A suitable fund, commensurate with her ATR, was then 
also recommended by Grove.
At the time when Grove met with Mrs E and was advising her, there was no specific 
regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. However, there were a number of important COBS rules in the regulators Handbook. These included but were not 
limited to a requirement upon Grove to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. In addition to this, COBS required Grove to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, Grove had a number of important responsibilities when providing advice. Despite what 
Mrs E might have thought she wanted at the time, Groves responsibility was to provide 
advice that was in her best interests. In particular, it should have been made clear whether it 
was  or wasnt - recommending the transfer. And the risks of the transfer-out Mrs E was 
apparently interested in should have been pointed out.
Was Mrs E treated fairly?
When our Investigator issued their view in January 2023, I think they comprehensively set 
out the timeline of events which arent disputed. But they thought Grove could have done 
more to ensure Mrs E was fully aware of the risks of transferring and the benefits shed be 
giving up. Overall, the investigator wasnt convinced Grove had been fair enough in 
categorising and treating Mrs E as an insistent client. However, importantly, they thought 
the eventual outcome of what would have happened would have still been the same.
I broadly agree with that view. However, I think the evidence is clear enough for me to say 
that Grove was probably acting in Mrs Es interest throughout the process. I think this 
because the Grove adviser collected a comprehensive picture of Mrs Es circumstances. An 
analysis was carried out of her wider finances and the estimated income she could have in 
retirement from her current scheme. Evidence is present of the adviser considering her other 
pensions and also acknowledging Mrs Es existing debts and her previous experiences of 
being in a debt management plan which she found expensive and certainly didnt want to go 
through again.
Upon being issued the initial advice of not to transfer, I note Mrs E replied more or less 
immediately setting out a number of reasons why she still wanted to go ahead with the 
transfer even though the adviser was clearly saying she shouldnt. And when the adviser set 
out their rationale in much greater detail within the suitability letter, I also note this included a 
detailed rationale, explained in plain and understandable terms, for Mrs E to further consider. 
I also note the adviser had by then already received an unprompted reassurance from Mrs E 
that she had considered the strengths and weaknesses of transferring away. She said, I 
have thought long and hard about this and would still like to go with the option of taking out 
£15,000 and putting £45,000 into another pension. The reason for this is as I explained is to 
get myself debt free, have some money left to help my son who is about to have his first 
child and have a holiday.
In my view, these were powerful personal reasons from Mrs E setting out why she wanted to 
gain access to immediate cash  and the only way for her to do this was by exiting the DB 
scheme. Theres compelling evidence that the adviser discussed alternatives to accessing 
cash in this way and that he did indeed explore a further debt management plan, but that 
Mrs E didnt want to go down those routes. 
I think theres also clear evidence explaining Mrs Es experience of debt over the longer term 
and how she wanted to free herself, not unreasonably, from this cycle. She herself referred 
to living on her overdraft and her income was modest; the suggestion is strong that her 
husbands finances were also in a challenging position. Against this backdrop, Mrs Es 
desire to break free of this was indeed powerful. She wanted to contribute to a happy family 
event and take a holiday. And however misplaced from a purely financial perspective, she 
thought her other personal pensions and her state pension(s) would see her and Mr E 
through retirement.So, like our investigator I think Mrs Es desire for immediate access to cash was urgent and 
deeply personal.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint 
I do not require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman