DRN-3297075
The complaint
Mr E complains that Coutts & Company (Coutts) have closed his account down and they 
wont give him a reason why.
What happened
Mr E held a number of accounts with Coutts. They sent Mr E a letter dated 24 March 2021, 
to inform him that they will be no longer able to provide him with services moving forward 
and that the letter provides him with formal notice that their relationship will come to an end 
in line with their terms and conditions. The letter stated that he had until 28 May 2021, before 
his accounts would be closed if he had not made alternative arrangements by then.
Mr E wrote to his private banker on 6 April 2021, to inform him of his shock to the letter he 
received. He asked his Coutts private banker if he would be so kind to provide him the 
briefest explanation as to why Coutts decided to take this action. 
Mr E received an email later that day, from a colleague of his private banker. She explained 
that she was not aware of the reason Mr Es accounts were being closed down, but she said 
that Coutts do not confirm the reason behind their decision.
Mr E made a complaint to Coutts. They did not uphold his complaint. They said they had 
granted him a four week extension in addition to the date they previously gave him to close 
his accounts. Coutts said that the reason they decided to close his accounts was a 
commercial decision and they were unable to divulge any further information regarding this.
Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He said he wasnt seeking financial 
compensation, but he was seeking to compel Coutts to provide their reason for their 
decision. He said he believed the decision wasnt fair as they werent open in their dealings. 
He added he was pursuing this case more as a matter of public interest as opposed to self 
interest.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Es complaint. She said Coutts had provided their terms 
and conditions, which set out how their accounts will operate and they relied on section 12.5 
of their terms and conditions to close Mr Es accounts. So she didnt think they had done 
anything wrong in closing his accounts and that Coutts arent obliged to share the reason for 
closing Mr Es accounts with him.
Mr E asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said, it would be valid to note that the 60 days notice referred to in the terms 
and conditions was too short a time based on lockdowns due to a pandemic and that Coutts 
ought to have provided a longer period due to the lockdown. Mr E also added that he did not 
believe that Coutts treated him fairly in line with the regulators Treating Customers Fairly 
(TCF) outcomes, in that they have not been open and honest with him by not providing the 
briefest of rationale with him and that they could be acting illegally. He said that Coutts 
should be judged on the basis of evidence regarding TCF, independently of their terms and 
conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial
business has failed their customer in any way. 
Where we find they have, we make awards designed to make the business put things right 
with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to 
make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the 
role of the regulator. So while Mr E has said that he is pursuing this complaint more as a 
matter of public interest as opposed to self interest, I wanted to be clear with the scope of 
our service.
Mr E has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Im satisfied that Coutts legitimately exercised their right to make decisions about how they 
conduct their business when deciding on closing accounts a customer holds. And we 
wouldnt normally interfere with such business decisions. But we would expect decisions to 
be implemented fairly and I note Mr E is unhappy with how Coutts went about closing his 
accounts. 
Ive reviewed the private client core terms provided by Coutts. They stated that Coutts could 
close an account or terminate the agreement for any reason providing they give at least 60 
days notice. Mr E has said they have not been open and honest with him by not providing 
the briefest of rationale with him. But the core terms do explain they can close an account for 
any reason and so I cant say Coutts have done anything wrong here. 
In Coutts final response to Mr E, Coutts do say the reason to close his accounts was a 
commercial reason. So Im satisfied that he was provided the briefest of rationale, which he 
asked for and I cant agree with Mr E that Coutts werent open and honest with him or have 
breached any TCF outcomes.
I say this as Coutts were open with Mr E about closing his accounts and gave him a notice 
period as explained in their terms and conditions. They then gave him a brief explanation 
that they were closing his accounts for commercial reasons. Coutts are not required to give 
out specific commercial decisions as to why they choose to close accounts.
Ive considered what Mr E has said about the pandemic and that the notice period was too 
short during lockdowns. But this would be a commercial decision if Coutts would choose to 
extend the notice period based on events which would be out of their control. Or if they 
would issue a notice of variation to their terms and conditions, extending the notice period. 
But this service cant tell a business what commercial decisions they should make regarding 
their terms and conditions.
I can see from Coutts internal notes that they did agree an extension of three weeks for Mr E 
(although his final response letter says four weeks), so Im not persuaded the closure date was fixed and that they would take any reasonable requests under consideration, even if 
their terms and conditions allow them to close an account with 60 days notice.
None of the above is to suggest I dont understand the frustration that Mr E must feel  far 
from it. He was also told by Coutts they didnt receive his letter dated 6 April 2021  even 
though he received a response to the letter. So hes bound to feel upset by their decision to 
not give him a more detailed reason as to why theyve issued him notice to close his 
accounts. But Coutts have followed their terms and conditions. So I cant fairly direct the 
bank to do anything here. And theres nothing to suggest the bank has acted illegally as Mr 
E believes. 
Given how strongly Mr E feels about this, he may want to take the matter further through 
other routes, such as contacting the regulator if he feels Coutts arent following the TCF 
outcomes. But my decision brings to an end what our service, in trying to resolve his 
complaint with Coutts, can do for him. I know Mr E will be strongly disappointed, but it 
follows that I dont require Coutts to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman