DRN-2188007
The complaint
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral). And 
after an accident, Mr H complained Admiral told him the car would be a category A write-off, 
but instead recorded it as a category S write-off. 
What happened
Shortly after the accident, Admiral told Mr H the car was uneconomical to repair, and the 
engineer thought it should be written-off. 
Mr H says that in a telephone call Admiral told him the car would be written off as a category 
A. He says that when he later saw the car on the road, he asked Admiral why the car had 
been repaired and not crushed. Admiral confirmed to him that the car had been a category S 
write-off, which meant it was structurally damaged but repairable. It confirmed that although 
it could have been repaired, it had taken its engineers advice not to repair it because it was 
uneconomical to do so.
Mr H complained to Admiral that if he had known the car would be a category S write-off, he 
would have kept it and repaired it.
When Admiral provided a final response to the complaint it said it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It accepted that in one of the calls it had with Mr H, the case handler 
stumbled slightly, but told Mr H the car was a category S write-off. 
Mr H didnt agree with Admiral and brought his complaint to this Service. 
The investigator reviewed the evidence provided, including the telephone calls between Mr 
H and Admiral. The investigator thought Admiral had done nothing wrong as Mr H didnt 
specifically ask about keeping the car, even when the salvage category was discussed.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, to see what it says about how 
Admiral deals with a total loss, or uneconomical repair. In the policy Admiral says it will 
decide how to settle the claim, and will either pay to repair the car, or pay a cash sum to 
replace it. And that the cash sum it pays will be no more than the market value, if the car 
cant be repaired economically. The policy says that once Admiral makes a payment for the 
car, it becomes Admirals property.
The engineers report I have seen says the vehicle was uneconomical to repair. Therefore, I 
consider Admiral acted reasonably in paying an agreed cash sum to Mr H. The agreed sum 
was paid directly into Mr Hs bank account and, in line with the policy conditions, the car 
became the property of Admiral.
I will now consider Mr Hs view that Admiral told him his car would be a category A write-off. 
I have listened to the telephone calls provided by Admiral and the partial video call Mr H 
provided and these confirm the same thing. The call handler wasnt immediately clear about 
what the category was, as he wasnt familiar with the claim, but he explicitly stated the car 
was a total loss and that this would be recorded as a category S. He then transferred the call 
to the settlement team. 
I note that in the transferred call, Mr H didnt query what a category A or category S write-off 
meant at the time, but he did accept the car was a write-off. And Mr H asked when he would 
receive a settlement so that he could buy a new car. Within a couple of days, Mr H went on 
to accept a settlement figure with Admiral. 
Mr H says that now he has seen the car on the road he believes Admiral shouldve offered 
him the opportunity to receive the car back so he could get the repairs completed himself. 
He says that he wouldve been able to get the vehicle repaired at a much lower cost than the 
estimate Admiral had received, and he has therefore suffered a financial loss.
Whilst I do empathise with Mr H in this regard it seems to me this doesnt consider that, at 
the time, he wanted a quick settlement. And that Mr H received the full market value of the 
car as a settlement. There was no suggestion that he wished to keep the car, and this is 
most likely because he quickly needed a car for his work, and the repairs would have taken 
some time to complete.
There are occasions when a consumer may wish to retain the salvage and most businesses 
will agree to this. I would expect Admiral to allow this if Mr H had requested it, but most 
consumers dont want the additional burden of retaining the car, completing the repairs and 
getting a new MOT to evidence roadworthiness. The car was Mr Hs property until the claim 
was settled. But once Mr H negotiated and agreed a settlement figure for the car with 
Admiral, I wouldnt usually expect an insurer to offer the salvage to him if he hadnt been 
asking about keeping it. 
I appreciate that when Mr H saw his car back on the road, he re-considered the settlement 
he reached with Admiral. But taking all the circumstances of this case into account, I dont 
think Admiral did anything wrong. Once it had paid the settlement it had agreed to Mr H, the 
car was Admirals to sell. Although Mr H may have misunderstood what the specific category 
was, in my opinion, Admiral did tell Mr H the car would be a category S write-off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman