DRN-3166427
The complaint
Mrs and Mr K are unhappy that TSB Bank plc cancelled both of their debit cards despite only 
reporting one as being lost. Mrs and Mr K are also unhappy with the service they received 
from TSB during a visit to branch.
What happened
Mr K visited a TSB branch during a time when the Covid-19 pandemic meant that 
businesses such as TSB had restrictions in place regarding how many customers they were 
allowing into their branches at that time. This meant that Mr K wasnt immediately allowed 
entry into the branch and had to wait outside. Mr K also felt that he was spoken too rudely by 
a member of TSB staff.
Separate to this, Mrs and Mr K reported that one of their debit cards had been lost. However, 
TSB proceeded to cancel both of their debit cards, leaving Mrs and Mr K without a debit card 
to pay for essential items. Mrs and Mr K werent happy about this, or with the service Mr K 
had received when hed visited a TSB branch, so they raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mrs and Mr Ks complaint. They explained that because of Covid-19, 
restrictions as to the number of customers allowed into branch had been in place at the time 
of Mr Ks visit to branch which had meant that Mr K had had to wait for a period before being 
allowed into branch. TSB didnt feel that this was unreasonable, given the wider social 
circumstances present at that time, and they also didnt agree that Mr K had been spoken 
too rudely by TSB staff at that time, so they didnt uphold those aspects of Mrs and Mr Ks 
complaint.
However, TSB did acknowledge that theyd mistakenly cancelled both Mrs and Mr Ks debit 
cards when only one of the cards should have been cancelled, and they apologised to Mrs 
and Mr K for this and paid £50 to Mrs and Mr K to compensate them for any trouble or upset 
this may have caused.
Mrs and Mr K werent satisfied with TSBs response, so they referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also felt that TSB hadnt 
acted unreasonably in asking Mr K to wait outside during the Covid-19 pandemic until he 
could be admitted safely into branch, and they didnt feel that they could impartially confirm  
that Mr K had been spoken too rudely as he felt he had been. So, our investigator also didnt 
uphold those aspects of Mrs and Mr Ks complaint.
But our investigator did feel that Mrs and Mr K had been inconvenienced by having both of 
their debit cards cancelled mistakenly by TSB, and they didnt feel that the £50 
compensation that TSB had already paid took sufficient account of this inconvenience. 
Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mrs and    
Mr Ks favour on this basis and that TSB should increase the total amount of compensation 
payable to Mrs and Mr K to £125.
Mrs and Mr K didnt feel that the recommendation put forwards by our investigator went far 
enough, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it might have been frustrating for Mr K, upon arriving at TSBs branch, 
to not have been allowed immediately inside. However, given that Mr Ks branch visit took 
place during the Covid-19 pandemic at a time when business such as TSB were encouraged 
to have policies in place to mitigate against close personal contact and potential viral 
transmission, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for TSB to have had restrictions in place in 
regard to the number of customers that they were allowing into branch which resulted in Mr 
K, as well as other TSB customers, to be asked to wait outside until such time that they 
could be safely admitted into branch.
Mr K has also stated that he feels that he was spoken to rudely by TSB staff. In their 
response to Mrs and Mr Ks complaint, having sought the recollections of staff members in 
question, TSB didnt agree that Mr K had been spoken to rudely, and felt that their staff had 
been trying to explain the banks position as to why Mr K was being asked to remain outside 
to Mr K, and that Mr K had not liked the banks position on that matter. 
In circumstances such as this, where the testimonies of both parties differ, I have to 
determine, as an impartial party, whether I feel that the testimony of one party can be 
considered as being more likely than not, on balance, to have occurred. In this instance, 
while I dont doubt that Mr K felt that he was being spoken to in a rude manner by TSB staff, 
its also evident from Mr Ks correspondence with this service that he felt very strongly about 
not being allowed into branch and having to wait outside. 
It seems plausible, therefore, that attempts may have been made by TSB staff to provide a 
reasonable explanation to Mr K and that these attempts may not have been readily accepted 
by Mr K at that time. Ultimately, I wasnt present at that time and so cant say for certain what 
did or didnt take place. But while I dont doubt Mr Ks feelings on this matter, I also dont feel 
that theres compelling cause for me to be able to fairly and impartially accept that Mr K was 
spoken to rudely by TSB staff in this instance, and as such I dont feel that I can reasonably 
uphold this aspect of Mr Ks complaint.
Finally, in regard to TSB cancelling both of Mrs and Mr Ks debit cards by mistake, TSB have 
confirmed that they made an error in this regard and theyve apologised to Mrs and Mr K and 
made a payment of £50 compensation to them because of this.
While I commend the spirit of TSBs offer here, I dont fee that the £50 compensation that 
TSB have paid to Mrs and Mr K takes sufficient account of the impact of TSBs mistake, 
which left Mrs and Mr K without a debit card with which to withdraw cash or purchase 
essential items.
TSB have stated that Mrs and Mr K held a TSB credit card account which had a 0% interest 
promotion in place at that time. This would seem to suggest that Mrs and Mr K did have a 
means of making essential purchases during the time that the debit cards were being 
replaced. But its notable that Mrs and Mr K were in dispute with TSB about this credit 
account at that time and that the account wasnt being used by Mrs and Mr K. And as such, I 
dont feel that this credit account did reasonably provide Mrs and Mr K with the back up 
means to make purchases as TSB suggest.
However, it was the case that Mrs and Mr K could visit a TSB branch to withdraw cash 
during the period that they didnt have working debit cards. And while I appreciate Mrs and 
Mr Ks comments that they were reluctant to do this following the unpleasant experience Mr K had had on his last visit to branch, as described above, and having taken into account Mrs 
and Mr Ks personal circumstances at that time, including that they had young children and 
that Mrs K was also pregnant, I do feel that withdrawing cash from branch was an option that 
was available to Mrs and Mr K, albeit a somewhat inconvenient one, which Mrs and Mr K 
chose not to use, rather than it being the case that it wasnt an option at all.
As such, in consideration of all the circumstances described above, I do feel that TSB should 
pay further compensation to Mrs and Mr K, and so my final decision here will be that I am 
upholding this complaint in Mrs and Mr Ks favour on that basis and instructing TSB to pay 
an additional £75 to them, taking the total amount of compensation payable to £125.
Im aware that Mrs and Mr K feel that a larger amount of compensation should be warranted 
in these circumstances. Indeed, I acknowledge that matters of compensation can be 
subjective, with an amount considered as being fair and reasonable by one party not being 
considered as being such by someone else. But compensation totalling £125 does feel fair 
to me here, in consideration of all the above, and I dont feel that further compensation 
above that amount is merited in this instance. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome that either Mrs and Mr K or TSB were wanting, 
but I hope that all parties will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
Putting things right
TSB must make a further compensation payment to Mrs and Mr K to take the total amount of 
compensation payable up to £125.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman