DRN-4497116
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) regarding a claim for 
damage to a third-party car. Mr D believes UKI repaired damage which he had not caused.
What happened
Mr D was driving his car in May 2023. His foot slipped and his car went into a car in front of 
him. He says it was a low speed and low impact crash, which caused limited damage to his 
own car (a cracked number plate). Mr D did not make a claim for the damage to his car. The 
third-party owner of the other car claimed against Mr Ds policy.
The third-partys car was taken to one of UKIs garages for repair. Mr D was concerned that 
the third-party was claiming for damage he had not caused. Specifically a vertical, 
half-cylindrical dent on the tailgate. UKI asked the garage for an opinion on the damage it 
was seeing. It said damage in that area seemed fresh. It said it couldnt be sure there was 
damage present which pre-existed the crash. UKI noted a number of scrapes in that area. 
UKI didnt feel it could successfully dispute the extent of repairs and the rear of the 
third-partys car was repaired. 
Mr D felt UKI had acted unfairly. He said it was clear his car could not possibly have caused 
the vertical dent. He said UKI should have examined his car too to confirm this, and also 
noted there was no paint transfer from his car on the third-partys. He said UKI should treat 
the third-party as a fraudulent claimant. He said it settling the claim had impacted his no 
claims bonus, which would likely affect his premiums in the future. Mr D complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator felt UKI had assessed the situation fairly and reasonably. So he wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint.
Mr D was unhappy with that outcome. He reiterated his concerns about the damage, 
concluding it was inconceivable, with his car suffering only a cracked numberplate, that the 
other car could have been so substantially damaged. He said the logic of his argument is 
irrefutable. Mr D said it was important that there is no evidence that he caused the damage 
in question. He said he is still prepared to have his car examined. Mr D said a collision 
causing no damage to either vehicle should not result in any impact on any insurance. The 
complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this is a frustrating circumstance for Mr D. I can assure him that Ive reviewed 
the photos of the cars. I can see that he strongly believes both that he did not cause this 
damage and that this is not just a view but a fact which is (or should be) clearly evident.
I can see that he thinks that UKI has not done enough to defend him as its policyholder. It is 
true that UKI could have instructed an engineer to compare both cars and the damage 
sustained. And the engineers view might then have enabled UKI to challenge some or 
possibly all of the damage to the third-party car. But an insurer has to deal with claims 
reasonably. And what is reasonable will heavily depend on the circumstances and available 
evidence in each case. 
Here I note that UKI consulted with the garage which had the third-party car for repair. The 
garage noted that all the damage on the tailgate was fresh. An expert opinion like that 
carries weight. It would likely be difficult to argue that the damage in question was unrelated 
to the accident if it seemed like it had not been there for long. The garage also considered 
that damage in that area was consistent with the accident circumstances.
Mr D clearly accepts that his car, due to his actions, impacted the third-partys car. So he 
has had an incident for which he is at fault. Even if that only caused a few scrapes to the 
other car  and UKI noted scrapes in addition to the vertical dent  they would require repair 
and that would become a fault claim against him. Having a fault claim will impact a 
policyholder. The cost of that fault claim will be less likely to impact matters. But seeking to 
challenge the extent of repairs, instructing experts and prolonging a claim would have a cost 
impact on UKI. So all of that had to be taken into account and balanced when considering if 
it was fair and reasonable for UKI to complete the repairs. 
I think that, overall, UKIs decision was made in a measured way. It did not just ignore Mr Ds 
concerns. It considered them. It obtained an expert opinion from the garage, which had the 
car with it for repair, about the damage. And it only proceeded with the repair once it was 
satisfied it likely wouldnt be successful in doing anything less. I bear in mind that repairing 
any scrapes to the tailgate area might involve paint work, and such likely couldnt be properly 
completed with a dent in the area. So its possible that UKI, in order to repair the more 
general scrapes would also have had to repair the dent. 
I note Mr D is still prepared to have his car examined with a view to forensically determining 
if it could have caused damage to the third-partys car. He is free to undertake that enquiry if 
he wishes. If he does, he could send the results to UKI for consideration.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman