DRN-2352418
The complaint
Mr A complains about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus.
What happened
Mr A said that he needed to pay his rent, but when he tried to do so, he found he didnt have
enough money. Over £1,000 had been taken out of his account. He said that when he asked
Cashplus, it said hed made this payment, but he told us he hadnt.
Mr A sent us the letter he got from Cashplus when he complained. It said hed made a large
payment for flight tickets, and had rung it not long after that. It said that hed at first said he
didnt recognise the payment, but then when Cashplus said what the payment was for, he
agreed he had been shopping for flights, and was going to contact the travel agent to
discuss the transaction. Mr A then rang back a couple of days later, and reported this
transaction as fraudulent. he wasnt told how to dispute the transaction. He rang again later,
and said the travel agent wouldnt discuss the charge with him, because the flight tickets
werent in his name. Cashplus ordered a transaction dispute form for him, but on a later call
he said he would bring his complaint to our service instead. Cashplus said that he would
have to go through its process if he wanted this money back.
Mr A said hed never told Cashplus that hed made this payment. He later told us that hed
finally received the form to claim his money back, and had returned it to Cashplus.
Cashplus told us it had given Mr A his money back, but it didnt think it had done anything
wrong. It didnt send us any evidence about what had happened.
Our investigator wrote her first view without seeing Cashplus evidence, because it had
repeatedly failed to send this to us. She knew Cashplus had refunded the money that was
taken in the disputed transaction. She thought then that Cashplus hadnt treated Mr A fairly.
Our investigator thought that Mr A had lost this money in August, and had to wait until
December before it was returned, so around four months. She thought that was likely to
have caused Mr A distress and inconvenience, and Cashplus had also accepted it gave Mr
A information that was either confusing or incorrect. So our investigator thought Cashplus
should pay Mr A £150 in compensation. And because he was missing this money for four
months, she said Cashplus should also pay 8% simple interest, for the time Mr A didnt have
use of the funds.
Cashplus then finally sent its evidence. But our investigator didnt change her mind. She said
that nothing in what Cashplus sent explained why it had changed its mind about whether Mr
A was responsible for this transaction. And whilst Cashplus had mentioned other complaints
to our service, she said she had to consider this one on its merits. She still thought Cashplus
should pay what shed first suggested.
Cashplus didnt agree. Although our investigator did ask why not, Cashplus didnt explain.
The case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Cashplus has been adamant that Mr A told it, when he first contacted it, that hed 
made this disputed transaction himself. But it has now refunded the money for this 
disputed transaction. As our investigator noted, Cashplus hasnt sent us the call 
where Mr A told Cashplus he made the transaction, and it hasnt explained why it 
changed its mind and decided to refund this money to Mr A.
Without further information on those points, it seems most likely that Cashplus made 
a mistake, and has now acted to put that right.
If Cashplus did make a mistake, then I would agree that Mr A has been 
inconvenienced. But I can now see that Cashplus paid this money back rather faster 
than our investigator thought. I can see a transaction for £1,363.40 debited his 
account on 7 August, and the same amount was returned on 11 September. I dont 
think thats an unreasonable amount of time for Cashplus to take, to give this money 
back. I dont think it has to pay interest to cover the time that Mr A was waiting for this 
money to come back.
I do think though that Cashplus has accepted it made mistakes here, which caused 
Mr A some inconvenience. It accepts that it shouldve told Mr A how to dispute his 
transaction sooner. It may also have made a mistake about what Mr A initially said to 
it about this transaction. But when we asked Mr A to tell us more about how this had 
impacted him, he didnt reply.
Because I think Mr A was only without this money for about a month, not four 
months, I think that the payment of compensation should be a little less than our 
investigator suggested. I do still think Mr A was inconvenienced by not having this 
money, and by how Cashplus responded to his complaint. So my current view is that 
Cashplus should make a payment of £100 to Mr A, to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused him.
I would note here that our service has received very little evidence in this case, 
particularly from Cashplus. So it may wish to send us further detailed evidence now. 
If more evidence is received, I will of course consider it, and review the case in full, 
before reaching any final decision. And if my decision changes, a further provisional 
decision would be issued before anything is finalised.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to tell Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading
as Cashplus, to pay Mr A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman