DRN-2294552
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed about 64,000 miles. I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear, but I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
need to replace the engine or for the power steering to stop working.
Close Brothers accepted the investigators proposal of 31 March 2020. They said they 
would:
investigate potential issues with the power steering;
reimburse Mr R £1,266.79 for repairs to the alternator completed on 24 October 
2020;
reimburse Mr R £5,090 for the engine replacement completed on 31 January 2020;
apply 8% simple interest to refunds from date paid to date of settlement;
pay Mr R £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Having reviewed the evidence I would agree with the proposals made at that point. The 
relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Close Brothers were responsible for the 
cars quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Close Brothers commissioned an independent inspection of the car, but I cant see that the 
independent inspector commented on the cause of the alternator failure. I therefore dont 
think Close Brothers have been able to demonstrate the alternator fault wasnt present, or 
developing, from the beginning. I think its therefore fair for them to refund the money Mr R 
spent on that repair as its likely the fault was developing when the car was supplied to him 
or was the result of a failed repair.
Mr R reported oil leaks to the business only a few days after he took receipt of the car. A 
repair was attempted in July 2019, but the independent inspector identified an excessive oil 
leak when he completed his report four months later. He explained that the oil leak required 
further investigation. Having reviewed the correspondence between Mr R and the dealership 
in July 2019 it seems the leak was in a similar area and, on balance, I think its highly likely 
the oil leaks identified in July 2019 were not repaired correctly and were still present in 
November 2019 during the independent inspection. 
Mr R has explained that the car broke down shortly after the independent inspection and the 
engine required replacing. When we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory quality 
we consider whether it has proven to be suitably durable. I dont think a reasonable person 
would consider a car to have been reasonably durable if the engine required replacing after 
only about 67,000 miles.
So, I think there is evidence that this car wasnt of satisfactory quality and I would agree with 
the investigators view of this complaint made in March 2020 and that Ive summarised 
above.
Since that point I can see that Close Brothers have disputed the refund as they dont think 
Mr R has supplied sufficient evidence hes paid for the repaired engine and alternator. Im 
persuaded that its likely Mr R has paid for the repairs because:
its clear that the repairs have taken place, and someone therefore needed to pay for 
them. I think its most likely that was Mr R;
Mr R has provided a video to show the new engine fitted to the car has a different 
serial number and that suggests a replacement has been provided;
Ive seen copies of the invoices;
Mr R has provided bank statements that show withdrawals that support his argument 
he was withdrawing money towards the repairs. 
So, I think there is evidence Mr R has paid for the repairs that have been completed.
Mr R complained about a power steering fault from the outset. A repair was attempted in 
July 2019, but Mr R was still reporting an intermittent problem in March 2020 when our 
investigator provided his proposals. The investigator suggested Close Brothers should 
investigate the issue and they accepted his opinion in April 2020. No investigation was completed by Close Brothers and the power steering failed on the car 
in May 2021. In the absence of more detailed information I think it is likely the power steering 
fault was not adequately repaired in July 2019. I say that because I think it would be unusual 
to have two faults on the same unit in such a short period of time and because Mr Rs 
reporting of the fault was consistent. 
Im therefore persuaded Close Brothers should take responsibility for the power steering 
fault as I think its likely it wasnt adequately repaired in July 2019 and was therefore likely to 
be a fault that was present at the point of supply.  
Putting things right
The relevant legislation says that if there is a fault at the point of supply and if the repair fails 
the consumer may be entitled to reject the car.
I dont think rejection would be reasonable here. I can see from Close Brothers system 
notes that Mr R accepted the repairs completed in July 2019 and the expensive repairs 
subsequently completed were with Mr Rs approval.
But its clearly not fair for Mr R to have been paying for the repairs to the car when those 
faults had been present or developing when the car was supplied to him. So, I think Close 
Brothers should refund the repair costs hes incurred for the engine and alternator repairs. 
Mr R also had to pay to have his car recovered to a garage when the engine failed on the 
car. He would not have had to do that if the car was of satisfactory quality so Close Brothers 
should refund the cost of that recovery.
As Mr R has been deprived of the money he has spent repairing the engine and alternator 
and recovering the car, Close Brothers should add 8% interest to the money they refund for 
those issues.
I understand the problem with the power steering has not been fixed and the car has been 
kept on Mr Rs drive whilst he waits for a resolution to his complaint. Close Brothers should 
therefore liaise with Mr R and pay for the fault to be diagnosed and repaired. If the car is not 
driveable and needs transporting to the garage they should pay for that transportation.
Mr R has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back for repairs on 
several occasions and has had to be recovered by emergency services. The car has 
suffered from persistent faults and hes had to wait for a resolution because Close Brothers 
disputed whether there was enough evidence that payments had been made by him to 
repair the car. Whilst I can understand Close Brothers wanting to be sure they were 
refunding expenses incurred, I think their requests for proof of payment were excessive and 
resulted in unnecessary delays. In all those circumstances I think Close Brothers should pay 
Mr R £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In early June 2021 Mr R explained that the mileage on the car was now 78,830. So, hes 
completed close to 15,000 miles in the car since he took receipt of it about two years ago. 
But there have been times hes been without the vehicle when he was experiencing 
alternator problems and when the engine was replaced. Hes had more limited use, if any, 
from the car since the power steering failed. Taking all that into account I think it would be 
fair for Close Brother to refund any finance instalments paid since the end of April 2020 
when the power steering failed and in respect of the lack of use Mr R has had from the car. 
Theyll need to add interest to those refunds as Mr R has been deprived of the money.
Mr R has explained that hed prefer to reject the car, but as Ive explained I think a repair is the fairest remedy here. If Close Brothers decide a repair is not commercially viable they 
may wish to discuss rejection of the vehicle with Mr R. In those circumstances Id still expect 
them to refund the repair costs for the engine and alternator and the cost of the car recovery. 
Theyd also need to consider the refund of any deposit Mr R may have paid and Id expect 
them to consider compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I note that Close Brothers asked for further information about the power steering failure 
recently. The power steering failed more than a year ago and had Close Brothers required 
further information they could have requested it earlier. I dont think it would be fair to Mr R to 
delay this decision any further.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
reimburse Mr R the cost to replace the engine of £5,090 and the cost to replace the 
alternator of £1,266.79 and the cost to recover his car to the repairing garage of 
£121.50. Add 8% simple interest per year to these refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay to have the car taken to a garage and to diagnose and repair the power steering 
fault;
refund any finance instalments paid by Mr R since 30 April 2020 when the power 
steering failed until the date the power steering is repaired and the car is returned to 
Mr R. Add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
pay Mr R £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to 
these issues.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman