DRN-2093645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about Health and Protection Solutions Limited (HPS), a broker, in 
relation to their health insurance policies. Mrs D is pursuing the complaint for herself and on 
Mr Ds behalf. 
What happened
In 2011, HPS advised Mrs D in relation to health insurance and she chose a policy with an 
insurer. The policy renewed every year until 2019. 
In July 2019, Mrs D contacted HPS. She asked for a new, lower quote for a similar policy. 
HPS promised to call Mrs D back the next day but didnt do so. When Mrs D spoke with HPS 
again, it found her a policy with a much lower premium than her original policy. Mr D also 
agreed to take out a policy, but the monthly payment was higher than Mr and Mrs D were 
expecting - £190.32 instead of £188.48 and Mrs D queried that. 
Mrs D complains that HPS didnt contact her before each renewal to discuss the premium or 
to tell her whether there were better offers in the market. She says that the only 
correspondence she received was new policy documents from the insurer. Mrs D says that 
over the years she looked for a policy with a lower premium, but couldnt find cover for pre-
existing conditions, so she continued to renew the policy. She says that she called the 
insurer about the premium but without success until, in 2019, the insurer referred her to 
HPS.   
In response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, HPS said that it sent a pre-renewal letter from 
2013 to 2019, except in 2017, as it couldnt see that Mrs D was included in its mail merge for 
that year. It said that it hadnt called Mrs D, as it had an incorrect phone number and it 
checked with the insurer to see if it had an alternative phone number, which it didnt. HPS 
apologised that it hadnt contacted Mrs D in July 2019, when it had promised to do so. It 
offered Mrs D one months premium as a gesture of goodwill.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about the different in the monthly payment for      
Mr Ds new policy, HPS said that Mrs D had been charged correctly and that the difference 
between the original quote and the actual premium was due to a change of start date. In the 
course of the complaint with this service, HPS said it would cover the difference in cost. 
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with HPS response and Mrs D pursued the complaint. Mrs D 
calculates that HPS failure to contact her at renewal cost her over £10,000 over the years 
and wants compensation for that. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that HPS had shown that it 
had sent Mrs D pre renewal letters in each year except for 2017 and had tried to contact   
Mrs D by phone. She said that HPS offer of one months premium was fair. The investigator 
said that HPS has offered to reimburse the difference between £188.48 and £190.32 in 
relation to Mr Ds policy, which she also thought was fair.  
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. She responded at some length, which I wont set out 
here. In summary, Mrs D said:
She doesnt accept that HPS made a mistake in relation to the monthly premium for 
Mr Ds policy  she says this is a criminal offence.
She wants reimbursement of £1,250 for her time spent dealing with this matter.
 She wants interest on the amount reimbursed. 
The investigators view about whether HPS contacted her was biased. 
HPS didnt contact her, as it was obliged to do.
HPS evidence shouldnt be relied upon. 
To her knowledge, her insurer had correct contact details for her, but it never phoned 
her. She received renewal documents and correspondence from her insurer and e-
mails.
She didnt receive a single letter or e-mail from HPS.
Its unreasonable to believe that if HPS had contacted her to offer to review the 
market, she wouldnt have taken up the offer. 
It was the insurer who told her to contact her broker in 2019.
Nothing that HPS says is true, believable or logical. 
The spreadsheet HPS has provided isnt evidence: anyone can fabricate a list like 
that. 
If HPS cant produce the individual letters it claims to have sent, it means that it didnt  
send them.
There was further correspondence which I wont set out here. Mrs D asked that an 
ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs D has very strong feelings about this matter. Shes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered. However, I trust that 
neither she nor Mr D will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the 
central issues.   
Where things are not clear, and evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is 
here  I make my findings on what I think is most likely to be the case. I take into account the 
evidence available to me and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
This service isnt the regulator: we cant tell HPS how to conduct its business. Neither can 
we decide whether something amounts to criminal conduct  thats a matter for the courts. 
But we can look at whether HPS has treated Mr and Mrs D in accordance with its obligations 
and fairly. 
I think that the compensation HPS has already offered Mrs D is fair. I say that because:HPS isnt obliged to retain documents indefinitely. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied, on balance, that HPS sent Mrs D pre renewal letters in 2013, 2014, 2015, 
2016 and 2018. For those years, HPS has provided an extract of its database from 
which it sends mail merge documents. Its also provided the template letters it would 
have sent. The extract of the database shows that it had Mrs Ds correct address. I 
think thats sufficient for me to conclude that its more likely than not that HPS sent 
the pre renewal letters to Mrs D in those years. HPS isnt responsible for any failings 
in the postal service. 
HPS doesnt have evidence of sending Mrs D the pre renewal letter for 2012 as, in 
accordance with its record keeping policy, it no longer holds the information for that 
year. I dont think that HPS is at fault for that. 
HPS cant show that it sent Mrs D a pre renewal letter in 2017.
HPS records show that it attempted to call Mrs D in 2014 and 2015 and that it called 
Mrs Ds insurer in 2017 and 2019 to see if it had an up to date phone number for    
Mrs D. Mrs D says that, to her knowledge, her insurer had correct contact details but 
also says that it never called her, so its by no means certain that the insurer had an 
up to date phone number to pass on to HPS.
HPS acknowledges that it didnt return Mrs Ds call as promised in 2019. For that and 
its lack of evidence in relation to the pre renewal letter in 2017, it offered Mrs D one 
months premium as a gesture of goodwill, which amounts to £277.69. I think thats 
fair in relation to those two elements of Mrs Ds complaint. 
During the course of the complaint with this service, HPS offered to reimburse the 
difference between the premium Mr D was expecting to pay (£188.48) and the 
premium the new insurer collected (£190.32). I think thats fair in relation to this 
element of the complaint. Its not appropriate to award interest on this amount, as   
Mr D hasnt yet paid all the premiums.
I dont think its appropriate in this case to award a sum for Mrs Ds time spent 
dealing with this matter. Thats because I think that the sums HPS has offered fairly 
reflect Mr and Mrs Ds distress and inconvenience in this case, including Mrs  Ds 
time spent dealing with this matter.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Health and Protection Solutions Limited should pay                     
Mr and Mrs D:
1. The payment of £277.69 which it already offered.
2. The difference between the premium Mr D was expecting to pay (£188.48) and 
the premium the insurer charged (£190.32) for the policy year, which it offered 
during Mr and Mrs Ds complaint with this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Health and Protection Solutions Limited should pay Mr and Mrs D 
the sums Ive referred to above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 Louise Povey
Ombudsman