DRN-1482610
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wouldnt refund payments under the direct debit 
guarantee scheme.
What happened
Mr A said hed had problems with a number of direct debits, and asked Monzo for refunds 
under the direct debit guarantee scheme. Monzo asked Mr A for evidence of the direct debit 
errors he said had occurred. Monzo wasnt willing to accept the evidence Mr A provided, and 
it didnt make any refunds.
When Mr A complained, Monzo accepted that some of its customer service couldve been 
better, and it paid £80 by way of an apology. But Monzo didnt consider it had done anything 
wrong in connection with its handling of the direct debits.
Mr A referred the matter to this service and asked us to look in particular at a direct debit 
paid to an energy supplier. Our investigator didnt consider the complaint should be upheld in 
connection with that matter.
Mr A told us that the energy supplier had refunded the disputed amount, but he couldnt get 
it from his Monzo account because it was closed. 
Mr A also remained unhappy about a direct debit he said had been paid to a loan company. 
Our investigator looked into this but didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She 
found it was reasonable for Monzo to ask Mr A for evidence of the direct debit error hed 
mentioned, but she couldnt see that hed provided what the bank had asked for. So the 
investigator didnt find that Monzo had done anything wrong.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As complaint to Monzo referred to a number of direct debits, and the banks final 
response referred to all of the issues hed raised. In his initial complaint to this service, Mr A 
asked us to look at one direct debit in particular  which was to his energy supplier.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded that Monzo acted incorrectly in connection with that 
direct debit. And I understand that during the course of the complaint Mr A has received a 
refund from the energy supplier. So I dont intend to make any further findings in connection 
with that matter.
Mr A says he hasn't been able to access the refund from his Monzo account, because the 
account is now closed. But Monzo has provided evidence to show that when the refund was received Mr A's account was in overdraft. So the refund was credited to the overdrawn 
amount. From what I've seen, I'm not persuaded the refund was handled incorrectly by 
Monzo. 
Mr A has also asked us to consider a direct debit he says was made to a loan company. He 
says the payment was taken too soon by the loan company, and that Monzo should refund 
the amount paid.
The direct debit guarantee operates where the payment date, amount or frequency of 
payments has been changed in error. But it doesnt cover contractual disputes between 
customers and third parties.
Mr A provided a copy of a letter he says he received from the loan company about a 
payment plan that had been set up. 
Monzo noted that the letter was sent after the date on which Mr A said the disputed direct 
debit payment had been taken in error. The information in the letter also suggested 
payments would be made by card rather than direct debit. So Monzo didnt consider there 
was enough evidence to show a direct debit mistake had been made.
Monzo asked Mr A for clearer evidence of the email source that sent the letter from the loan 
company. It also made suggestions for the loan company to contact Monzo directly with the 
information it needed. From what Ive seen, I dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo to do 
that.
Monzo also asked for a screenshot of Mr As loan account showing the payments made to 
his account. Again, I dont think that was unreasonable. But Im not persuaded Mr A provided 
the information Monzo asked for.
Ive reviewed the latest information Mr A says hes received from the loan company. But it 
seems the copy letter is dated after Mr A says the disputed payment was due to be 
collected. So Im not persuaded that this is sufficient evidence to show that a direct debit 
error was made.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo to ask for better evidence to show that a 
direct debit error had been made in connection with Mr As loan repayment. Im not 
persuaded that the evidence Mr A supplied is enough to show there was an error, so I dont 
find Monzo at fault for not to making a refund under the direct debit guarantee. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman