DRN-3263497
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc defaulted his accounts and passed them to 
collections unfairly. 
What happened
In both November and December 2020, HSBC contacted Mr T as part of a review they were 
carrying out on their historic collections and recoveries process. The review highlighted that 
certain aspects of that process, at the time Mr Ts account went into arrears in 2010, were 
different to current standards.  Because of this, they offered Mr T a total of £100 
compensation. 
Mr T complained as he wasnt happy with the actions HSBC had taken in 2010. He says he 
has been affected as he hasnt been able to apply for a mortgage or any other financial 
product. Hes also explained hes suffered with depression and cannot apply for a new job as 
they will carry out a credit check and see the adverse information on his credit file. 
He would like HSBC to offer more compensation for the impact he believes their actions 
have caused. 
HSBC responded to the complaint to say the payments in 2020 were made as a gesture of 
goodwill in light of their decision to improve and amend their current procedures. As part of 
their review they didnt identify any error regarding how Mr Ts debt was processed, or any 
errors in the actions they took. 
In terms of Mr Ts complaint about what had happened in 2010, HSBC have explained that 
Mr T wrote to them at the time asking them to write off his debts, which they declined to do. 
In March 2010 Mr T put forward an offer of £3 per month, however HSBC also declined this 
as they said he wouldnt be able to pay off his debt in time. Mr T then raised a complaint 
about how HSBC had treated him, in terms of the arrears  as well not responding to his 
letters, and how a call centre agent spoken to him.
HSBC issued their final response to Mr T on those matters in April 2010 and then closed his 
account and applied a default in August 2010. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that we wouldnt be able to look into Mr Ts complaint 
about not writing off the arrears on his accounts, as it had been brought out of time. He 
explained the rules that our service has to follow, which include time limits, and what they 
meant for Mr Ts complaint. 
But our investigator was able to look into the compensation that had been offered in light of 
HSBCs 2020 review. Having looked at that part of Mr Ts complaint, our investigator felt the 
offer was fair. 
Mr T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 December 2021, setting out my thoughts on the 
different parts of Mr Ts complaint. The following is an extract from my provisional findings 
which were set out in the decision:
Having looked through everything, there are some elements of Mr Ts complaint that we 
cant look into. I have explained why below. I have, however, considered Mr Ts complaint 
point regarding the compensation offered as part of the 2020 internal review, and again I 
have set out my findings below. 
What I cannot look into
As the investigator explained, our service cant consider every complaint that is referred to 
us. The complaint handling rules that govern what we can and cannot consider are set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and are known as the Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP).
For us to be able to consider Mr Ts complaint, wed need to have the jurisdiction to do so 
which means wed need to be allowed to consider it under the DISP rules.
Mr Ts complaint about his account arrears 
HSBC sent their final response to Mr T covering his complaint about the account arrears on 
his overdraft and credit card on 29 April 2010 (following a complaint being received from him 
on 12 April). With their letter they attached a fact sheet which explained Mr T had six months 
from the date of the letter to contact our service. Ive also seen a copy of a letter dated 24 
April 2010 we sent to HSBC on Mr Ts behalf, asking HSBC to issue a final response on his 
complaint. So it seems Mr T contacted our service prior to receiving his final response from 
HSBC. 
In 2010 our system usually generated a letter for the consumer at the same time, explaining 
that on receipt of a final response they would need to refer the complaint back to us within 
six months  though no record of that correspondence remains. Given the number of years 
that have passed, I am also unable to find a record on our systems of Mr T coming back to 
us, to ask us to investigate, following the final response.
 
In 2010 our rules said that our service couldnt consider a complaint that was referred more 
than six months after that date on the respondent businesss final response. Bearing in mind 
there is no evidence that Mr T did contact us to ask us to investigate within six months of the 
April 2010 final response letter, I find that the complaint about HSBCs lending decisions and 
treatment of Mr T while in arrears to have been brought to us too late.
 
HSBC hasnt consented to us looking into the complaint anyway, and I dont consider there 
are exceptional circumstances that explain the delay in coming back to us. So the complaint 
Mr T made to HSBC in 2010 isnt within our jurisdiction to consider now. 
When looking at this part of the complaint, I need to decide whether anything HSBC have 
said since changes the response they gave in 2010  and so gave him more time to refer 
things. Having considered everything, I dont think any of the subsequent correspondence 
(including the review outcome letters in 2010, or the 2021 final response) represent a 
change in stance on the original complaint. Mr Ts complaint in 2010 was about arrears not 
being written off and HSBC not agreeing to his repayment plan, whereas the 2020 review 
was a blanket review that looked at very specific things  the timings of two letters sent 
during the collections process.Even if Mr T did refer things to us within the six-month window in 2010, and there was 
evidence we investigated at the time, then our rules also say we can dismiss a complaint 
without consideration of the merits if weve previously considered the matter (DISP 3.3.4B 
(3)). Thats because it would seriously impair our effective operation to do so. So I find that 
wed likely dismiss the complaint in any event. 
 
Mr Ts complaint about the account default
 
When Mr T complained to HSBC following the 2020 review, he mentioned that he was 
unhappy with the default applied  something that wasnt expressly covered by the final 
response in 2010, as it hadnt happened by then. The default was applied in August 2010. 
But when considering whether I can look into a complaint, I also need to consider the six and 
three-year rule which can be found in DISP 2.8.2R. It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint
having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
 was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or 
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where the
time limits  have expired 
From what I have seen, Mr T brought his complaint to our service in March 2021. His 
account fell into arrears in 2010 and the default was applied in August of the same year. This 
means more than six years have passed since the default was applied. 
I have also checked to see whether the three-year rule applies here. From the information I 
have, I can see that Mr T raised a complaint about the arrears on his account, and asked 
HSBC to write off the outstanding amounts in both February and March 2010  so he was 
aware of the complaints process. The default was registered in August 2010, and so 
because of this, I consider Mr T would have been reasonably aware that he had a cause to 
complain upon receiving the notice of default. So, he referred his complaint about the default 
outside of the three-year window allowed in the rules.
We can look into complaints that are brought out of time where we feel exceptional 
circumstances apply, but I havent seen any reasons to suggest that Mr T wasnt able to 
bring his complaint to us within the time frames set out above. 
Overall, having carefully thought about everything provided, its my decision that we arent 
able to consider this part of Mr Ts complaint because it has been brought out of time. What I can look into
 
Mr Ts complaint about HSBCs internal review in 2020
Even though Im not able to look into Mr Ts complaint regarding his account arrears, I can 
look into whether HSBC have treated him fairly following their internal review in 2020.
 
HSBC have explained that they identified different areas of their historic collections and 
recoveries process that they feel could have gone better. For each one, they sent Mr T a 
compensation payment and all together have paid him £100. 
Firstly, they identified that the timing of the default and demand correspondence was not in 
line with the standards they hold today. £50 was awarded for the inconvenience this may 
have caused. 
The other £50 was given due to HSBC sending Mr T a demand letter for the outstanding 
balance on his account before discussing alternative options with him, and also due to him 
having multiple products in arrears that were subject to different recovery strategies. As 
these didnt meet HSBCs current standards at the time of the review, they paid Mr T £50 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Here, I am looking at whether I feel HSBC have assessed Mr Ts accounts in line with the 
scope of the review, and whether the redress offered is fair. HSBC have explained they 
identified Mr Ts accounts as potentially falling into the two redress scenarios based on 
broad data (i.e. they went through the collections process between 2010 and 2019). Based 
on this, the accounts do fall within the scope of the review.
Lastly, I need to decide if the compensation offered fairly addresses the impact that the 
letters being sent when they were in 2010, wouldve had on Mr T. I appreciate it would have 
been a particularly stressful time regardless, given the financial difficulties Mr T was 
experiencing. But I cant see that the demand letters being sent at different times wouldve 
materially affected his position, in terms of the arrears  or caused more distress. 
Because of this, I feel the £100 offered by HSBC is fair and I wont be asking them to offer 
Mr T anything further in respect of the review. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for, but I hope he understands my 
reasoning. 
HSBC accepted my provisional findings, however Mr T disagreed. He said my provisional 
decision was unfair and discriminatory towards him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry that Mr T feels discriminated against as a result of my provisional decision. While 
he hasnt explained the reasons why he feels discriminated against, or why he disagrees 
with what I said, it wasnt my intention to make him feel that way. 
As Mr T hasnt provided any information which changes my provisional decision, I have 
nothing further to add to what I have said already.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc, regarding 
the compensation offered as part of their 2020 internal review.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman