DRN-2785557
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about delays and other customer service issues caused by Zurich 
Assurance Ltd after the submission of their applications for life assurance cover. 
Mrs and Mr M are being represented by their Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). All 
references to Mrs and Mr M will include submissions from their IFA. 
What happened
In summary, the background to this complaint is as follows:
An application was made to Zurich on 6 December 2018 for two protection products on 
behalf of Mrs and Mr M by their IFA. One of the policies was rejected by Zurich. Following 
further applications, two policies were set up but the level term policy from the original 
application was quoted as being £91.74 but was now £92.99. Zurich confirmed the multi-
policy discount (MPD) hadnt been applied as the applications hadnt been submitted on the 
same form. Mrs and Mr M complained. In brief, they said:
Zurich asked for Mr Ms medical consent form when itd already been submitted;
There was a delay to requesting the medical information from Mr Ms GP;
Zurich confirmed to the IFA there was an error with the original application and that a 
re-key (re-entering the data) of this would be required. The IFA believes it was the 
rekeying of the applications that led to the MPD being removed;
The MPD removal was not mentioned to the IFA; 
The IFA should be reimbursed for his costs due to the delays caused by Zurich; 
Mrs and Mr M thought Zurichs complaint process had been biased and there had 
been delays looking at their concerns.
Zurich upheld the complaint in part for the delays caused and offered Mrs and Mr M £100 in 
compensation. But it said as Mrs and Mr Ms policies hadnt been submitted on the same 
application form, they didnt qualify for an MPD. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Zurichs payment of £100 was fair. 
And she didnt think it was responsible for the loss of the MPD. Further, she said the way 
Zurich handled Mrs and Mr Ms complaint and the claim for the IFA costs, didnt fall within 
our jurisdiction. Mrs and Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said 
that if it wasnt for the re-keying issues and delays, they would not have lost the MPD.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 April 2021 which both parties accepted. In essence, I 
didnt think the terms of the MPD was clear and together with the IT problems, had caused 
the loss of the MPD to be applied to Mrs and Mr Ms policy. The total financial loss was 
£300, which is what I said I intended to award Mrs and Mr M. But I didnt think anything more 
needed to be paid for the distress and inconvenience as I considered the £100 already paid 
by Zurich for its mistakes, was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed, my decision remains the same  that is, that I uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
MPD
Mrs and Mr M say it was the re-keying issues that led to the loss of the MPD. Zurich have 
explained the re-keying issue arose due a systems error it was experiencing. It said re-
keying is the process of Zurich recreating a new application on behalf of the IFA. In this case 
this was needed due to a system error which meant the original application couldnt be 
continued or used. A new application is created every time Zurich process a re-key. Zurich 
said these IT issues were passed for further investigation and in the meantime, a 
workaround was found whereby it would re-key the applications on behalf of the IFA.
Despite the IT problems, Zurich maintain the MPD was removed from Mrs and Mr Ms policy 
because the applications which had quotes for two products (one of those being declined), 
meant the MPD was lost at that stage. And when the IFA put through the applications for the 
final time, these were on two separate applications and therefore, didnt qualify for MPD. 
Zurich notes the rationale behind offering the MPD is it reduces costs to process one 
application.
I understand where Zurich are coming from here. And I can see the dates for the policies 
that were ultimately set up for Mrs and Mr M, were done on different dates and on separate 
applications. But I think the issues with the re-keying together with some communication 
issues and lack of clear information about when the MPD would apply, did lead to a mistake 
being made in this case. And on balance, I think this was the fault of Zurich. Ill explain why.
Zurich confirmed it is unable to provide a complete record of the communication with the 
IFA. It has provided some contact notes with the IFA but these are limited in terms of the 
detail and isnt a complete record of all calls/ emails during the application process. From the 
IFAs submissions and Zurichs contact notes, I can clearly see there were at least two 
occasions where applications had to be re-keyed due to Zurich system errors. And on each 
of these occasions the IFA was under the impression this was a re-key of the original 
application. He says when he spoke to Zurich on 26 March 2019 he was told there was an 
error with the original application and that a re-key would be required. Another re-key was 
needed after this.
I should note here that for each application there was a different quote number and a 
different application number with no link to external parties between these numbers. Im not 
sure how the IFA was meant to keep track of the applications in any coherent way given the 
need for a re-key on two separate occasions, which both produced different application 
numbers. As far as the IFA was concerned these applications were iterations of the original 
application and the re-key was needed due to the system errors.
That said, I accept the applications for the policies were eventually set up were on separate 
applications and did have different submission dates. Further, on each quote it did set out if 
the MPD applied to the policies being applied for. So, arguably, the IFA should reasonably 
have become aware that the MPD would not apply to the policies that were applied for. 
However, I note the terms of the MPD werent clearly set out for the IFA. The only reference 
to the terms of the MPD is noted on the IFA part of the Zurich webpage where it says:Zurich has also enhanced its term life insurance, and all three products  CI, IP and life  
can be boosted with non-underwritten, optional, fracture cover. And theres a discount when 
more than one policy is bought.
I dont think this makes it sufficiently clear that the policy had to be on the same application 
form. From what the IFA said, this was only made clear to him at the end of the process. I 
can see this is reflected in contact notes with the IFA who called to find out why the MPD 
hadnt been added to one of the policies. Zurich have said its standard industry practice for 
the MPD to work in this way but Im not persuaded of this based on what theyve sent. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for the IFA to rely on what he was being told on Zurichs 
webpage.
I think it was the clear intention of the IFA to take advantage of the MPD. And as Zurich have 
said, the IFA could easily have re-submitted the first application with the subsequent 
application once the relevant policies had been accepted. All in all, Im persuaded the Zurich 
IT system and communication issues as Ive outlined above, together with the lack of clear 
terms about when the MPD would apply, caused the mistake that led to the MPD being lost.
For all these reasons, I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr M complaint about the loss of the MPD.
Other service issues
Theres no dispute that Zurich caused delays to the applications. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused by these issues, Im satisfied the £100 already paid by Zurich to Mrs 
and Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As the IFA isnt an eligible 
complainant in this complaint, I wont be asking Zurich to pay anything further in terms of any 
costs he (the IFA) has incurred.
Mrs and Mr M also complain about Zurichs complaint process. As our investigator said, this 
isnt normally something we can look at as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. In 
any event, if Mrs and Mr M were unhappy about how long Zurich were taking in answering 
their complaint or with the outcome in terms of considering it to be biased, they had the 
opportunity to come to our service after the eight weeks.
For all these reasons, Im upholding Mrs and Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint. I order Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mrs and Mr M £300 for the 
financial loss suffered. As Zurich has already paid Mrs and Mr M £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, it doesnt need to pay anything further in this respect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman