DRN-4124460
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund money she 
lost, which she believes was as the result of a scam.
What h
appened
The circumstance s which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
Mrs C was looking to have some work completed on her property. She was recommended a 
builder by word of mouth, through a friend of a friend and, afte r entering into discussions with 
the builder she agreed for them to carry out the work.
Between 6 August 2020 and 23 September 2020 Mrs C made nine payments to the builder, 
totalling £22,600. But Mrs C has said the work the builder subsequently carried out was not 
completed to a high standard, failed to adhere to architectural design and the correct 
materials were not used. Mrs C added that after less than two months of starting, the builder 
walked off site and didnt respond to any further communication.
Mrs C has told us that she took legal proceedings against the builder and a judgement was 
made in her favour and she was awarded monies. However, shes said the builder then 
declared bankruptcy and she hasnt received any of the compensation she was awarded.
Mrs C believed she had been the victim of a scam, so she raised the matter with Nationwide. 
Nationwide considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM code), of which it is a signatory. It looked into Mrs Cs complaint and sent its final 
response, not upholding her complaint. In summary, it considered this was a civil dispute 
between Mrs C and the builder, so this wasnt covered by the CRM code.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mrs C brought her complaint to our service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things, but our Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. In 
summary he also concluded this was a civil matter between Mrs C and the builder. He said 
that this didnt mean the builder did a good job, but that the evidence hed seen led him to 
believe there wasnt an intent to defraud or scam Mrs C at the time the payments were 
made.
Mrs C didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, she strongly maintained that 
shed been the victim of a scam. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual poi nt or 
argume nt to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, I m required to 
take into accou nt relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where approp riate, what I consi der to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about Nationwides actions, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her and I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling, but I dont think I can fairly say Nationwide should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs C, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. And I can see that this has been a very 
difficult time for her. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact 
fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thoug ht about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Nationwide has signed up to and 
was in force at the time Mrs C made these payments.
Unde r the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all 
push pa yments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not receive
d them, they are defective in some way, or the  
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payments Mrs C made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, are not covered by the CRM Code. Mrs C disagrees. She feels the 
builder has scammed her.
In order to conclude that the payments Mrs C made were part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied, from the available evide nce, that the builder she was using set out to 
defraud her. But 
I dont think, based on what I know, that I can safely conclude that.
Its clear the agreement Mrs C entered into with the builder did not go as planned and she 
has not received what she was expecting. I can understand entirely why she feels so strongly 
about what has happened. There may even have been some sharp practice in terms of how 
the builder carried out the work. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know, 
that the builder set out with an intent to defraud her. I say this because there was work 
carried out, at least to an extent, and I note from the Quantity Surveyors report that amongst 
other things, the structural walls and roof were generally finished. This is confirmed with Mrs 
Cs own representations, although I dont doubt the works werent carried out to the 
standards Mrs C expected.
Im also mindful that Mrs C wasnt cold called which, while not always, can often be the case 
with rogue trader scams - where people can often be contacted out of the blue and pressured into having work done that they may not want / require. Here, Mrs C proactively 
contacted the builder and agreed a price after the builder had been recommended to her. 
This indicates to me that the builder had successfully carried out wo rk for other custome rs in 
the past and it is not typical in scams like these, for a tradesman to be taken on following a 
recommendation.
Mrs C has explained to us that she made numerous attempts to try and contact the builder 
when things started to go wrong, but the builder didnt respond. I dont doubt that not 
communicating or responding to Mrs C may smack of bad practise, but I have to consider 
this, alongside all of the other factors that Ive mentioned above and consider everything in 
the round.
After taking everythin g into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, on balance, I cant safely conclude w hat has happened here meets the high 
legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a builder, 
failing to honour its agreeme nt by not providing the quality of work that its customer 
expected.
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, the 
builder set out with the intent to defraud Mrs C. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM 
Code doesnt apply. And I cant ask Nationwide to refund the money Mrs C has said she has 
lost, as I dont think Nationwide treated Mrs C unfairly when it said the payments she made 
were not covered by the CRM Code.
Mrs C has said that she was vulnerable at the time the transactions were made. Shes 
explained the difficulties that shes faced as a result of the building work not being completed 
as she would have expected. Im sorry to hear of the difficult circumstances Mrs C found 
herself in and I dont doubt how challenging a time this must have been.
While I dont underestimate what Mrs C has told us, I have to be fair and reasonable to both 
sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel Nationwide to d o more when the relevant law, 
rules, code s and good practice d o not sa y that it should. And fo r reasons explained, as I 
cant safely say that a scam has taken place, it means that the CRM code doesnt apply to 
the payments Mrs C made, so Nationwide isnt obligated to make a refund due to any 
potential vulnerabilities.
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Mrs C. I know this wasnt the answer she was 
hoping for. But, for the reasons I have explained, I cannot fairly say that Nationwide should 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the loss Mrs C has sadly suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman