DRN-3821242
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax put a deceased marker on her 
account by mistake, and cancelled her direct debits. The marker has been removed, but she 
said it was upsetting, and reinstating all her direct debits had put her to a lot of trouble.
What happened
Halifax has accepted it made a mistake in putting a deceased marker on Miss Bs account. It 
says this was just human error. It paid Miss B £100 to say sorry, but Miss B said that wasnt 
enough to make up for what had gone wrong, and all the trouble and stress she was put to. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that being marked as 
deceased wouldve been distressing for Miss B. And hed checked her statements, he could 
see that not all of her direct debits had been put back on to her account when the deceased 
marker was removed. So he thought Halifax should pay Miss B an extra £100. 
Halifax agreed with that, but Miss B didnt. She said shed spent a considerable amount of 
time on the phone to Halifax, had never been told the right information, and hadnt been able 
to get to the bottom of what happened. She also said it had taken her a great deal of time to 
put the direct debits back in place, and she hadnt yet managed to reinstate all of them. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Halifaxs internal notes, which suggest it had understood it had reinstated all Miss 
Bs direct debits. But Ive also seen her statements, and I agree with our investigator, it 
doesnt look to me like they have all been reinstated. So Ill bear that in mind when I think 
about compensation here.
I know Miss B wanted to know what had gone wrong to cause this marker to be placed on 
her account. But unfortunately, Halifax has just said it cant tell whats gone wrong. It can 
only say this was human error. I think Halifax has looked into this for Miss B, and it does 
seem to me to have done what it can to find out what happened, as well as accepting 
responsibility for its mistake. I think thats a reasonable response for Halifax to have made.
Miss B says this has put her to a great deal of trouble. And she doesnt think that £200 in 
compensation is enough to make up for that. I understand that this has been frustrating and 
upsetting for Miss B, and I also understand that some services havent been easy for Miss B 
to deal with, when shes been trying to reinstate her direct debits. But I would agree with our 
investigator that an award of £200 in total for Miss Bs complaint is in line with other awards 
our service makes, and I do think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Bs 
complaint. 
I understand that Halifax has already paid Miss B £100, so Ill award the remaining £100 
now.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Miss B £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman