DRN-1304650
The complaint
Ms L complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a claim 
she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L had a home insurance policy, underwritten by RSA. She had "Premier Cover" which 
included cover for buildings, contents, and home emergency.
In early 2019 Ms L discovered rats had got into her property and damaged some of her 
possessions. She rang RSA to inform them and start the process of claiming for the cost of 
the damage.
Over a number of phone conversations RSA told Ms L it didn't think the damage would be 
covered, as her policy didn't cover damage caused by vermin. But one of its call handlers 
advised her to submit a claim form.
RSA declined Ms L's claim, and she complained. She argued that the terms of the policy 
weren't clear, and that RSA couldn't rely on saying the damage was excluded for "wear and 
tear" as that wasn't what had happened.
One of our investigators looked into things. He thought RSA had handled Ms L's claim fairly. 
He thought the policy was clear that any damage to Ms L's possessions caused by rats 
wasn't something RSA had agreed to cover. So he thought it was fair for it to have declined 
her claim. And he felt that RSA had handled the claim appropriately, letting Ms L know at an 
early stage her claim wasn't likely to be covered.
Ms L disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. She maintained that her 
claim should be covered under her policy, and wasn't happy with the way RSA had dealt 
with her on the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The heart of this complaint is RSA's decision not to cover Ms L's claim for damage rats 
caused to her belongings. Ms L says that the terms of her policy aren't clear, and that in her 
view the policy terms don't give an exclusion RSA can rely on here. I know it will come as a 
disappointment to Ms L, but I think RSA acted fairly in declining her claim, and I'll explain 
why.
Rats got into Ms L's property and damaged some of her things. The terms of her policy give 
details of what is and isn't covered, and then a list of exclusions which apply to the whole 
policy. The first of these listed exclusions reads:
Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused directly or indirectly by or resulting from wear and tear, viruses, disease, depreciation, repairs necessary in the 
normal course of maintenance, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin (except for cover 4 
under the Home Emergency Option), fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything which 
happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or 
restoration.
I'm satisfied this makes it clear damage caused by vermin wouldn't be covered under Ms L's 
policy - in common with most other home insurance policies. The Home Emergency Option 
says that RSA will pay to have rats removed or destroyed, which it offered to do, but Ms L 
declined. But it doesn't say RSA will pay for damage caused by rats, and that type of 
damage is specifically excluded under the term mentioned above.
Ms L argues that RSA are excluding cover on the basis of "wear and tear" and has referred 
to her understanding of what that term means, and the need for damage to be caused over 
time to be considered as wear and tear. But it's the wording of her particular policy that 
matters. And I'm satisfied that under the heading of "wear and tear" RSA have listed a 
number of specific things that it won't cover. This clearly includes damage caused by vermin, 
without qualification on the nature or length of time over which that damage was caused. It 
doesn't appear to be in dispute that rats would be considered as vermin and I'm satisfied 
that's the case. 
So overall I don't think it was unfair or unreasonable for RSA to apply the exclusion under 
Ms L's policy and say it wouldn't pay her claim.
I've considered the way RSA handled Ms L's claim, too. I can see she had a number of 
conversations with her insurer about whether or not this claim would be covered. Ultimately I 
find that RSA were consistent in saying it was unlikely damage caused by vermin would be 
covered under her policy. It explained why but Ms L disagreed and so it treated her 
disagreement as a complaint and responded accordingly. I don't think the way RSA dealt 
with the claim was inappropriate or warrants any payment of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman