DRN-3610023
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer), declined a claim they made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O have explained that on 21 November 2021 they booked a holiday abroad. And 
they took out a travel insurance policy, to provide cover for the trip they were due to go on.
Mr and Mrs O were due to fly out on holiday on 28 November 2021, returning a week later. 
But, around ten hours before they were due to fly abroad, theyve explained government 
rules around the Coronavirus pandemic, and travel changed. Instead of simply needing to 
provide a negative lateral flow test result, two days after return, Mr and Mrs O would need to 
self-isolate, until this positive result was provided.
This change in government requirements caused a problem for Mr and Mrs O. This was 
because Mr O was due to attend a medical appointment on 7 December 2021. And wouldnt 
be able to attend this, with the need to self-isolate. Mr and Mrs O have explained Mr Os 
medical conditions  and that because of this, it wasnt feasible for him to miss the 7 
December 2021 appointment. With this in mind, Mr and Mrs O decided not to travel on 
holiday.
In addition to this, Mr and Mrs O have said that on 28 November 2021 there was a named 
storm in their area. This caused damage to their garden, and a roof tile was dislodged and 
perched in the guttering of their home. So, this needed to be sorted too.
As Mr and Mrs O didnt go on holiday, and so lost the £1,100 they paid for the trip, they 
made a claim under their travel insurance policy. The excess on their policy was £300 in 
total. So, they understood the maximum settlement they would receive would be £700. But 
they were surprised to find that Chaucer, the insurer of their policy, declined their claim.
Chaucer declined the claim because it said the reasons Mr and Mrs O cancelled their 
holiday werent listed as something covered under their policy. And so, no settlement would 
be provided to them.
Mr and Mrs O were dissatisfied with this. So raised a complaint with Chaucer about the 
matter. But its position remained the same. As Mr and Mrs O remained dissatisfied, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They looked 
at the policy terms, and said that Chaucer had acted reasonably, by saying there was no 
cover under their policy for their holiday cancellation. Our investigator said that whilst she 
understood Mr and Mrs Os need to attend the medical appointment booked, and therefore 
the problem with self-isolating, this wasnt something the policy provided for. 
The investigator also said the only time cancelling a trip due to storm damage was covered, 
was when the police or other authority had required Mr and Mrs O to stay at home. Which 
wasnt the case. So, the investigator didnt recommend that Chaucer do anything differently.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree. In summary they said:
They wanted the case to be assessed by an ombudsman, on the basis that theyd 
cancelled their trip for medical reasons  on genuine medical grounds. 
They werent in a position to gamble with medical appointments  given Mr and Mrs 
Os health conditions. And when Mr O did attend the medical appointment it was 
found that Mr O had an additional medical condition, he would need surgery for
The change in government restrictions, so close to their intended departure on 
holiday, made it difficult. Mr and Mrs O questioned how they could have contacted 
their doctor re medical advice, rescheduled the medical appointment and PCR tests, 
and got the police to visit their storm damaged home, all in the short window between 
the government changing the rules, and their scheduled flight.
Even if their claim isnt 100% in line with the policy terms, they felt the claim should 
be accepted, given the short time window in the change of government guidance.
They could have said to Chaucer that they had Coronavirus symptoms, or built on 
their other medical conditions, as others had told them to, and said this was the 
reason they needed to cancel their trip. 
Because Mr and Mrs O remained dissatisfied, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. So, I dont require Chaucer to do anything 
differently in relation to this claim.
Its important to note, when explaining my final decision, I have only referred to what I 
consider relevant to explaining my reasoning for my decision. But, as above, I have taken all 
information and points into account. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether 
Chaucer acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mr S claim.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Os policy documentation. And I can see that as is usual with 
insurance policies of this nature, it doesnt cover every eventuality. There are terms and 
conditions around the cover. In line with this, Mr and Mrs Os policy does provide cover for 
the cancellation of a trip. But, in order for a claim to be successful, the trip must have been 
cancelled for one of the reasons listed under the cancellation section.
So, Ive reviewed these listed reasons, and considered whether Mr and Mrs Os cancellation 
falls within these reasons.
The listed reasons include cancellation due issue such as illness, injury and redundancy. But 
it doesnt include the decision to cancel a trip, because of a change in self-isolation rules, 
and the need to attend a medical appointment during this self-isolation period. And this was 
why Mr and Mrs O cancelled their trip. As this reason isnt listed, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable, and in line with the policy, for Chaucer to say Mr and Mrs Os reason for 
cancelling wasnt covered.Ive thought about whether there was any other reason Mr and Mrs O cancelled the trip, that 
is covered. And they have mentioned damage to their property  which was caused during a 
storm. But Im aware that the only time this would be covered, was if the police or other 
authority, required Mr and Mrs O to stay at home because of the situation. But that wasnt 
what happened here. So, Im satisfied this reason isnt covered by the policy either.
Mr and Mrs O have said that between the time they found out about the change in 
government rules around returning to the UK, and their scheduled flight, they didnt have 
time to contact relevant medical professionals, or the police/authorities about damage to 
their home. And I appreciate this point. From what Mr and Mrs O have explained, there was 
very little time for them to take any action before their flight took off. 
But that doesnt change that the loss isnt covered under the policy. The primary reason Mr 
and Mrs O didnt go on holiday  the change in self-isolation rules, isnt something covered 
by the policy. Neither is the fact that Mr and Mrs O didnt have sufficient time to change the 
medical appointment already booked for Mr O. 
The policy in fact only provides cover for cancellation due to anything related to Coronavirus 
 unless Mr and Mrs O had a positive test result, meaning they couldnt travel. So, Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs Os point here doesnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
Also, from the information Ive been provided with, the police or other authorities werent 
dealing with an event of serious damage to Mr and Mrs Os home that required them to stay. 
And there is no evidence that if they had been involved, they would have required this. So, 
Im satisfied Chaucer has acted reasonably in concluding the event wasnt insured under this 
either.   
Mr and Mrs O have mentioned that they could have told Chaucer they were suffering from 
Coronavirus symptoms and so couldnt go on holiday. Or, built on their other medical 
conditions. Instead, they were honest about the situation. But Mr and Mrs O are required to 
act honestly and provide accurate information when claiming. So, I have nothing further to 
add in this respect, and it doesnt change the outcome of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O have said they even if their claim isnt covered by the terms and conditions, 
given the circumstances of their case, it would be reasonable for the insurer to accept their 
claim. But I dont agree. Mr and Mrs O paid a premium for the cover detailed in the policy. 
The scope of the cover under that policy, and its limitations, arent unusual. Mr and Mrs Os 
claim doesnt fall within the cover paid for cover. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
require Chaucer to act outside the terms and cover the claim. 
I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs O, the loss they have suffered, and I acknowledge that 
Mr O needed to attend his medical appointment. But, for the reasons detailed above, Im 
satisfied Chaucer acted reasonably in declining their claim. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Rachel WoodsOmbudsman