DRN-1757577
 
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy how Your Money Management Ltd, trading as Your Money Claim (YMC), 
dealt with her claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
Mrs W is being represented in this complaint by Mr W. For ease, Ill refer to both of them as 
Mrs W.
What happened
Mrs W instructed YMC to make a claim for potentially mis-sold PPI against Lender L. 
Although Lender L initially said Mrs W hadnt been sold PPI, in July 2019 they told YMC 
theyd made a mistake. Mrs W then signed a new Letter of Authority (LOA) and YMC 
prepared and submitted the claim for her. 
Lender L wrote to Mrs W on 23 September 2019, confirming her claim had been successful. 
Despite the evidence showing that YMC prepared and submitted the claim, and that they 
were acting as Mrs Ws representative, Lender L didnt tell YMC that the claim had been 
successful until 22 January 2020. So it wasnt until this point that YMC invoiced Mrs W for 
their success fee.
Mrs W has complained that she cancelled the claim with YMC, but theyre still asking for 
their fee. And shes unhappy that YMC have started legal action to recover their fee through 
the courts (although the courts havent considered this yet).
Our investigator said there was no evidence that Mrs W had cancelled the agreement with 
YMC before the claim was successful. Because of this, he said YMCs fees were due.
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. She says she cancelled by telephone within 10 
days of signing the new LOA in July 2019. She feels that YMC should be able to provide a 
recording of this call, which they havent been able to. So shes asked that an ombudsman 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs W, having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen the LOA Mrs W signed on 12 July 2019. This confirmed shed read and accepted 
YMCs Terms of Engagement, and that she instructed them to make the claim against 
Lender L on her behalf. Ive also seen the Terms of Engagement Mrs W agreed to. These 
confirmed that YMC would charge 24% inclusive of VAT on any successful claims, as well 
as saying:6.1. Within 14 days of signing the initial Letter of Authority (The Cooling Off Period), the 
Client may cancel this Agreement by notifying Your Money Claim in writing by email to 
(email address) or by recorded post to (postal address) or by making any other clear 
statement
6.2 The Client may also cancel the Agreement at any time after the Cooling Off Period by 
advising Your Money Claim in writing by email to (email address) or by recorded post to 
(postal address) or by making any other clear statement and paying all Reasonable 
Expenses incurred by Your Money Claims within 28 days of cancellation.
I havent seen anything in YMCs case notes that shows me Mrs W cancelled her claim with 
YMC. While I dont doubt that, to the best of her memory, Mrs W discussed possible 
cancellation with YMC on the phone, she didnt confirm any cancellation by email or by 
recorded post. And I havent seen that YMC charged Mrs W any cancellation costs 
(Reasonable Expenses) either.
YMC cant provide any copies of any calls Mrs W made to them after she instructed them to 
make the claim for her. But their case notes dont show they spoke to Mrs W between 12 
July 2019 and 22 January 2020. Although Mrs W says she called YMC, but she hasnt 
provided me with anything to show me that she did, for example an itemised phone bill.
Given the above, I agree the evidence doesnt show that Mrs W cancelled the agreement 
with YMC, so I wont be asking them to waive their fee.
YMC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, YMCs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And just because YMCs fee is 
higher than the value of the work they have done for Mrs W, this doesnt make their fee 
unjustified.
Mrs W has also mentioned YMCs attempts to recover their fees. Its clear she doesnt think 
she owes them anything, so shed find any attempts to collect the fee unwanted and 
unacceptable. However, as Ive stated above, the company were entitled to charge their 
fees, and were therefore entitled to attempt to collect them. And this includes taking legal 
action if the fees remain unpaid.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Your Money 
Management Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman