DRN-3944225
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC surrounding a payment 
he attempted to make which was blocked by Lloyds. 
What happened
Mr M attempted to purchase a mattress from a reputable merchant using his Lloyds account, 
but the payment was blocked by Lloyds. Mr M then spoke with Lloyds and was told that the 
block on the payment had been removed. However, Mr M was then still unable to complete 
the payment for some time after making several attempts. The payment did eventually go 
through, but Mr M wasnt happy about what had happened, or with the service hed received 
from Lloyds staff when speaking on the phone about it. So, he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ms complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr M in 
how theyd initially blocked the payment or then removed the block from Mr Ms account. 
However, they did accept that Mr M had been upset by the service hed received while 
speaking to Lloyds staff. Lloyds apologised to Mr M for this and made a payment of £30 to 
him as compensation for the upset caused. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Lloyds response to Mr Ms 
complaint  including the apology and payment of £30 compensation  already represented 
a fair outcome to what had happened, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This 
means that it isnt within my remit here to declare that Lloyds have acted in a non-regulatory 
or unlaw way - such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to 
potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit 
focussed on fairness of outcome, as considered from an impartial perspective.
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds blocked the payment he was attempting to make to a reputable 
merchant, and so Ive considered whether I feel that Lloyds blocking this attempted payment 
was unreasonable or unfair. 
Lloyds have confirmed that the payment Mr M attempted to make was blocked by their 
automated fraud prevention system. Such systems are used by financial institutions to flag 
account activity that may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its 
felt theres a possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. Indeed, it must be noted that 
financial institutions such as Lloyds have an obligation to employ such systems to comply 
with regulations which require banks to have systems in place to protect their customers 
accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And Im satisfied that this is what happened in this instance. So, while I appreciate 
that the blocking of the attempted payment was inconvenient for Mr M, I feel that this was 
unfortunately a necessary inconvenience, given the wider context here as Ive described it 
above. As such, I dont feel that Lloyds blocking Mr Ms initial payment was unfair.
Where a bank has blocked a payment for potential fraud concerns, it would generally be 
expected that the bank would try to contact its affected customer in a timely manner to allow 
that customer to verify the payment so that it might be allowed to go through. I feel that 
Lloyds did that here, and I note that they made an automated call to Mr Ms landline 
telephone wherein Mr M completed the verification process and the blocks on his account 
were lifted. 
Mr M has explained that after receiving this call and being told the blocks on his account had 
been lifted, he made several further attempts to make the payment to the merchant which 
were all rejected by Lloyds. But Lloyds dispute this and have provided Mr Ms account 
transaction records which show that only two attempts to make the payment were received 
by them  the first at 11:09, which was blocked, and a second at 17:53, which completed.
Where the testimonies of a complaint and the respondent business differ, as is the case 
here, I must decide which of the two versions of events put forwards I feel is most likely to 
have happened, on balance, and in consideration of all the information and evidence 
available to me. 
In this instance, I find the transactional account history provided by Lloyds to be persuasive. 
This isnt to say that Mr M didnt make further payment attempts after receiving the 
automated call from Lloyds. But it is to say that if Mr M made such further payment attempts, 
that I feel that it wasnt Lloyds fault that those further attempts didnt go through. 
This is because Lloyds have no record of any further payment attempts reaching their 
systems, which I feel strongly implies that the further attempts failed at some point in the 
payment chain prior to Lloyds  so that they never reached or were recorded on Lloyds 
systems. And as such, I wouldnt consider holding Lloyds accountable for these failures.
Mr M has also expressed his dissatisfaction with how busy Lloyds telephone lines were 
when he tried to contact Lloyds himself, both to verify the payment and when further 
payments he attempted didnt go through. I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration here. But a 
business has no control over how many people are trying to contact it at any one time, and it 
isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business to change its operational 
processes, including how many staff it employs to answer inbound calls.
Mr M is also unhappy with the service he received when he did speak with Lloyds, including 
that a Lloyds agent suggested he should buy a mobile phone, which would allow blocked 
payments to be verified more quickly. Lloyds have accepted that Mr M didnt receive the 
standard of service when speaking to Lloyds that he should have done here, and theyve 
apologised to Mr M for this and made a payment to him of £30 as compensation for any 
upset their agent may have caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But while I appreciate that Mr M was upset by 
the conversation he had with Lloyds agent, I dont feel that the agent was being malicious or 
facetious, and as such I feel that the £30 compensation that Lloyds have already paid Mr M for this aspect of his complaint is a fair amount, and I can also confirm its commensurate 
with what I might have instructed Lloyds to pay for this matter, had they not already done so.
All of which means that I dont feel that Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mr M in how they 
blocked the payment, and I dont feel that the further declined payments that Mr M 
encountered following his verifying the payment with Lloyds were the result of any action or 
inaction from Lloyds. Finally, Im also satisfied that the £30 compensation Lloyds have paid 
Mr M for the service aspect of his complaint is a fair amount.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I hope that Mr M will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman