DRN-3126605
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree hasnt treated them fairly, 
in that it firstly wouldnt offer them a new interest rate on their mortgage. And then when new 
interest rates did become available, they were not as good as rates offered to customers of 
other parts of the business.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out their mortgage with Northern Rock bank many years ago. When 
Northern Rock collapsed during the financial crisis, it was nationalised and many of its 
mortgages  including Mr and Mrs As  were transferred to a new government-owned 
successor company known as NRAM.
TSB Bank plc, TSB and Whistletree 
In 2016, NRAM sold a group of mortgages on. Some of them were bought by TSB Bank plc. 
TSB Bank plc ring-fenced those mortgages separately from those of its other customers and 
branded them Whistletree.
This means that TSB Bank plc then had two trading styles  (1) TSB (for customers whose 
mortgages it had originated itself, and those it had inherited following its separation from 
Lloyds Bank); and (2) Whistletree (for customers whose loans it had bought from NRAM). 
TSB Bank plc says it manages the two trading styles, or books, separately as separate 
lenders. Each has their own customer-facing staff and brand name, as well as separate 
lending criteria, products and policies. It manages TSB customers in house, but the 
management of Whistletree customers and mortgages is outsourced to a third-party 
company. In addition Whistletree mortgages continue to be subject to Northern Rocks terms 
and conditions, rather than TSB Bank plcs standard terms and conditions which it applies to 
TSB customers.
For clarity, in this decision I shall use:
Whistletree to mean the former Northern Rock mortgages and customers, the 
ring-fenced book of those mortgages, and the policies and procedures TSB Bank plc 
applies to them. 
TSB to mean the TSB branded mortgages and customers who originated with TSB 
Bank plc or Lloyds, the ring-fenced book of those mortgages, and the policies and 
procedures TSB Bank plc applies to them. 
 TSB Bank plc to describe the regulated entity that owns both the Whistletree and 
TSB books and is responsible for both of them.
Mr and Mrs As mortgage
When they first took their mortgage out, Mr and Mrs A had a fixed interest rate product. 
When that expired they reverted to Northern Rocks standard variable rate (SVR). By this 
point, Northern Rock and then NRAM were not making new interest rates available to any 
customers. All customers, once they reverted to SVR, would have to either stay on the SVR 
or re-mortgage to a new lender. Mr and Mrs A werent in a position to move their mortgage 
elsewhere, so they remained on the SVR.
By 2016, when their mortgage moved to Whistletree, Mr and Mrs A had been on the NRAM 
SVR for many years. They say they asked for a new interest rate in 2016, though theres no 
record in TSB Bank plcs contact notes of that discussion or request. There are, however, 
records of them asking for a new interest rate since January 2017.
TSB Bank plc initially didnt make any new interest rates available to its Whistletree 
customers. It maintained the position inherited from NRAM  that customers must remain on 
the SVR. It created an SVR for the Whistletree book which was initially set at the same level 
as the NRAM SVR. So customers who moved from NRAM to Whistletree continued at the 
same interest rate.
Later, in 2017, TSB Bank plc did begin to offer new interest rate products to its Whistletree 
branded customers. But these rates were separate and distinct  and higher  than the rates 
TSB Bank plc offered to its TSB branded customers. It was only in April 2020, after the 
period covered by this complaint, that TSB Bank plc harmonised the interest rate products 
across the two books.
Mr and Mrs As applications
Mr and Mrs A say they asked for a new rate soon after the mortgage transferred from NRAM 
to Whistletree in 2016. TSB Bank plc says it has no record of any contact from them at that 
point.
The first evidence of contact in TSB Bank plcs records is from 12 January 2017. TSB Bank 
plcs contact notes record that Mr and Mrs A asked about a new interest rate but were told it 
was:
not in a position to offer any new products at the moment Nothing we can do at 
the moment
There was no further discussion and no formal application was made.
In mid-2018, Mr and Mrs A again asked about a new interest rate, which led ultimately to this 
complaint.
By this time, Whistletree was offering new rates  but on less favourable terms than were 
available to TSB customers, so Mr and Mrs A wanted to access a TSB rate.
An appointment was arranged for Mr and Mrs A to explore a remortgage to TSB in January 
2019. However, this did not go ahead because it would have involved an affordability 
assessment that Mr and Mrs A believed they would not pass.  Instead, Mr and Mrs A began 
their complaint. 
They said that as TSB and Whistletree were the same entity, they should be allowed access 
to TSB products on the same basis as TSB customers. But TSB Bank plc maintained that 
this would not be possible. In an email to Mr A, TSB Bank plcs Head of Mortgage Services 
said:Whistletree customers do not have access to the TSB mortgage product range 
through Whistletree. However, as you are aware, Whistletree customers are able to 
complete a product transfer within Whistletree and can also access TSBs mortgage 
product range should they wish to remortgage to TSB as a new to bank customer  
if you decided to progress an application for a TSB mortgage this would be managed 
as a remortgage rather than a product transfer.
TSB Bank plc offered to explore a Whistletree product switch with Mr and Mrs A, and it 
offered to backdate the product to the end of 2018, and to waive any early repayment charge 
should Mr and Mrs A find themselves able to move their mortgage elsewhere. Mr and Mrs A 
didnt accept that offer, as they believed they should have a TSB product, and they pursued 
their complaint, first with TSB Bank plc and then with us.
In their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs A said their complaint was that they werent being 
allowed to move from Whistletree to TSB without being treated as a new to bank customer 
and being subjected to a full affordability assessment. They said there was no real 
separation between the two brands, and a product transfer should be allowed under the 
regulatory transitional arrangements. As existing customers of TSB Bank plc, they werent 
new to bank.
As a result of TSB Bank plcs refusal to allow a product transfer to a TSB product, they said, 
they were being treated less favourably than other customers with similar characteristics in 
breach of the regulators rules and principles. To put matters right, they said they wanted us 
to assess whether there was a meaningful separation between TSB and Whistletree  and if 
not to require TSB Bank plc to allow them to move to TSB, backdated to when they first 
requested it.
In April 2020, TSB Bank plc reduced the rates it offered to Whistletree customers so that 
they were now equivalent to the rates offered to TSB customers. Mr and Mrs A then took a 
new rate, moving off the Whistletree standard variable rate (SVR).
The parties representations
The key question in this complaint is whether TSB Bank plc acted fairly and reasonably in 
preventing Mr and Mrs A from accessing TSB products  or equivalent rates  on the same 
basis that it would have allowed other TSB Bank plc customers (that is the TSB branded 
customers) to access them.  
Over the course of the complaint the parties have made lengthy representations about those 
matters and about the relevance and application of various regulatory requirements, 
including MCOB 11.8.1E, to the complaint.  
In substance, MCOB 11.8.1E says that if a customer either cant vary their existing 
mortgage, or cant move to a new lender, the existing lender should not (for example by 
offering less favourable interest rates or terms) treat the customer any less favourably than it 
would treat other customers with similar characteristics. MCOB 11.8.1E says that may be 
relied on as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 (which requires firms to treat 
customers fairly). 
Our investigators view was that Mr and Mrs A should have been offered a rate no less 
favourable than that which would have been offered to TSB customers. She said that TSB 
Bank plc should re-work their mortgage accordingly. Neither party accepted that  TSB Bank 
plc didnt think the complaint should be upheld, and Mr and Mrs A didnt think the 
investigators proposed outcome went far enough. TSB Bank plcs position 
TSB Bank plc said nothing in either the mortgage contract or the regulators rules entitles 
Mr and Mrs A to a new interest rate. But it was keen to explore their options with them. It 
said that at no point had Mr and Mrs A been turned down, either for a Whistletree product or 
for a TSB mortgage; they were welcome to apply, and have their application assessed, but 
had chosen not to. It was pure conjecture to say they would have been declined had they 
applied.
TSB Bank plc said that it requires TSB customers applying for a new rate to go through an 
advised process, including an affordability assessment, where it believes it would be in the 
customers best interests to do so. In particular, TSB interest only customers would be 
required to undertake an affordability assessment and an assessment of their repayment 
strategy. As part of this process, TSB explores whether a switch to repayment terms is 
affordable. But, it said that if a TSB interest only customer fails that assessment, a product 
transfer could still go ahead if it were in the customers best interests. A Whistletree 
customer in a similar position could be offered a Whistletree product  but not a TSB 
product.
In relation to MCOB 11.8.1E, TSB Bank plc said this provision is aimed at mortgage 
prisoners. Mr and Mrs A were not mortgage prisoners, and therefore MCOB 11.8.1 E is of 
no relevance. But even if they were, they do not have similar characteristics to customers 
who applied for and were given a TSB-branded mortgage. Those customers would have 
been required to prove their income at inception. Mr and Mrs A, who TSB Bank plc says took 
a self-certification mortgage, were not required to do so, and so it was not unreasonable to 
expect them to go through the same process TSB customers had already been through. To 
do otherwise is to treat them more favourably, not less.
TSB Bank plc also said that it understood characteristics, as referred to in MCOB 11.8.1 E, 
to be at risk segment rather than individual customer level. It said that in any case no 
borrower had been taken advantage of, as all its mortgages operated in accordance with 
their terms and conditions. Customers who meet TSB risk criteria can apply to re-mortgage 
to TSB.
In any case, MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision, and does not require that all 
customers receive equal treatment. There is no basis for saying that Mr and Mrs A have 
been taken advantage of, which is the standard applied in 11.8.1 E.
TSB Bank plc said that any hardship Mr and Mrs A had suffered was because of changes in 
their circumstances since the mortgage was taken out, not because of anything it had done, 
and not because of anything foreseeable either at the time the mortgage was taken out, or 
the time it was transferred to Whistletree. It said it had previously offered, as a gesture of 
goodwill, for Mr and Mrs A to take a Whistletree product on which it would agree to waive the 
early repayment charge (ERC) if they managed to re-mortgage elsewhere, but they had 
refused.
TSB Bank plc said that TSB and Whistletree had always been separate brands, subject to 
separate terms and conditions and separate management. How TSB Bank plc chose to 
structure its business should not be a factor in deciding fair treatment of its customers. The 
two books were differently priced to reflect different risk profiles. There was no entitlement 
for Mr and Mrs A to move from Whistletree to TSB  or access TSB products  without 
passing a TSB assessment. It wasnt fair to conclude otherwise.
Mr and Mrs As position Mr and Mrs As position was that as customers of TSB Bank plc, Mr and Mrs A should be 
treated the same as TSB customers, and TSB Bank plc had a duty to pro-actively make sure 
it was doing so. They said that any product should be backdated to July 2016, when TSB 
Bank plc took over their mortgage, not January 2017 when they asked for a rate. July 2016 
was when TSB Bank plc became responsible for their mortgage, and when it should have 
taken steps to ensure they were not treated less favourably than its other customers.
They said TSB Bank plc should have made products available to Whistletree customers from 
the start  and if it had done so, Mr and Mrs A would have been able to switch sooner. They 
also said that Mr and Mrs As short-term borrowing was only taken out because they were 
treated unfairly by being over-charged on their mortgage  and so that was a direct 
consequence leading to financial loss for which I should award compensation.
Late on in the complaint, Mr and Mrs A appointed solicitors to represent them. The solicitors  
said that compensation for their distress and inconvenience of £500  the amount 
recommended by our investigator  didnt represent sufficient compensation for 
Mr and Mrs As non-financial loss, and they said that I should also award the legal fees 
Mr and Mrs A have incurred.
Mr and Mrs As solicitors said TSB Bank plcs actions, over several years, caused 
Mr and Mrs A very substantial difficulties, including reduced living standards, distress and 
embarrassment. They provided a witness statement setting out what they considered to be 
the impact of the high interest rate TSB Bank Plc had charged them. This included:
Difficulties meeting the everyday costs of living  especially items such as car repairs 
and maintaining the property, as well as the needs of their children for things such as 
new clothes, holidays, school trips, and the kinds of things their friends took for 
granted, as well as not being able to afford to live away for university;
The impact on their family life of such matters;
Problems with being unable to afford to keep the property in good repair, and the 
impact that has had on Mrs As physical health and both their mental health and 
wellbeing;
Inability to plan for the future, such as making pension contributions;
Inability to take time away from immediate earnings to invest time in growing Mrs As 
business.
Mr and Mrs As solicitors said that this placed the appropriate award into the severe (over 
£2,000) or extreme (over £5,000) categories of awards set out on our website.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 and a second provisional decision in 
September 2021 setting out my thoughts on the complaint. In my second provisional 
decision, my overall conclusions were that:
TSB Bank plc failed to treat Mr and Mrs A, whose circumstances meant they could 
not move to a new lender, fairly and reasonably when it declined their request for a 
preferential interest rate equivalent to what it would have made available to other 
TSB Bank plc customers (those with TSB branded mortgages) with similar 
characteristics. 
TSB Bank plc should compensate Mr and Mrs A in respect of the extra interest they 
paid between March 2017 and April 2020 and it should pay them a further £500 for 
the trouble and upset caused. But I did not think it should pay further compensation for financial loss or their legal fees.
The responses to my provisional decision
TSB said that while it disagreed with my second provisional decision, it had no further 
arguments to make, but invited me to reflect again on what it had said previously.
Mr and Mrs As solicitors also disagreed with my second provisional decision. They thought 
the complaint should be upheld, but that redress should be backdated to when the loan 
transferred from NRAM to TSB Bank plc in 2016. And they didnt think £500 was sufficient 
compensation for non-financial loss.  I will set out and address those representations in more 
detail below when I come to appropriate redress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im grateful for the responses to my second provisional decision. I note that TSB Bank plc 
doesnt accept that the complaint should be upheld. But while its referred me back to 
previous submissions, it hasnt presented any new evidence or argument. 
I carefully considered what both parties said before I issued my second provisional decision. 
And I have done so again. But I havent changed my mind. It remains my view  for the 
reasons I explain below  that this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs As applications
Mr and Mrs A say they first asked TSB Bank plc for a new interest rate shortly after their rate 
moved from NRAM to Whistletree, in 2016. Then they asked again in January 2017, and 
again in late 2018. On the first two occasions they say they were told they couldnt have a 
rate at all; on the third that they would only be able to access a Whistletree rate if they were 
able to pass a full new to bank customer assessment to access a TSB rate.
Theres no evidence in TSB Bank plcs records of any contact before January 2017. Given 
that later contact is recorded  even where it was an early stage refusal, as in January 2017 
 I think its likely that any earlier contact would have been recorded too.
And if Mr and Mrs A were told in 2016 that no rates were available to them, its difficult to see 
why they would have asked again so soon in January 2017.
I havent seen any evidence supporting Mr and Mrs As recollection of asking for a rate in 
2016. I bear in mind that theyve clearly been unhappy about their mortgage and wider 
financial situation for a number of years. And I bear in mind that human memory is fallible 
and liable to be influenced by later emotions and beliefs. While an absence of a record of 
contact in TSB Bank plcs notes is not definitive, it is in my view persuasive in this case, 
particularly given the January 2017 request. 
Overall and on balance, my finding of fact is that it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs A 
first contacted TSB Bank plc to ask for a new rate in January 2017.TSB Bank plcs product transfer process
In January 2017, at the time of their first application, its not clear whether as Whistletree 
customers they could have applied to TSB, even on a new to bank customer basis. 
According to TSB Bank plcs contact notes, they were told there was nothing we can do at 
the moment when they asked whether there were options to move forward now with TSB. 
This suggests that in January 2017, at the time of the first application, Mr and Mrs A were 
simply told that they would have to remain on the Whistletree SVR  and even the option of 
applying to TSB as new to bank customers wasnt made available to them. In contrast, 
TSB customers could have applied for a new rate and my understanding is that at this time a 
TSB customer would not have had to pass an affordability assessment to be eligible for a 
new TSB rate. I havent seen any evidence to suggest otherwise.
At the time of Mr and Mrs As second application, in late 2018 and early 2019, these were 
the options available:
(1) An interest only TSB customer applying for a TSB rate would go through an 
advised process, including a full affordability assessment. At the end of that process 
they would be given a new product whether or not they passed the affordability 
assessment, by varying their existing mortgage.
(2) An interest only Whistletree customer applying for a Whistletree rate would go 
through an advised process, including a full affordability assessment. At the end of 
that process they would be given a new Whistletree product whether or not they 
passed the affordability assessment by varying their existing mortgage.
(3) An interest only Whistletree customer applying for a TSB rate would go through 
an advised process, including a full affordability assessment. They would only be 
granted a TSB rate by passing the affordability assessment as a new to bank 
customer and re-mortgaging as a TSB customer.
I havent seen detailed evidence of Mr and Mrs As financial circumstances, though theyve 
described redundancy, struggling to claim benefits and to establish a self-employed 
business, and relying on credit cards and other debts for day to day living. Ive considered 
the account of their situation in recent years given by their solicitors, which shows their 
difficult financial situation pre-dates the transfer from NRAM to TSB Bank plc.
Im therefore satisfied on the evidence available that its likely they would have failed a full 
new to bank affordability assessment, even had one been made available (in 2017) or had 
they chosen to undergo an assessment (in 2019). And this meant that they had no option but 
to remain on the SVR (in 2017), or to take a Whistletree rather than TSB rate (in 2019). And 
as a result, as I explain below, I think it is more likely than not that they would have been 
unable to re-mortgage elsewhere at those times either.
That is not to say that it would have been wrong for TSB Bank plc to require Mr and Mrs A to 
go through an advised process. 
I agree that in broad terms its very likely to be appropriate and reasonable to want to give 
advice to interest only customers, especially where theres uncertainty about whether they 
have adequate repayment strategies. And an application for a product switch is a good 
opportunity to do that. And the same applies to customers, such as those in the Whistletree 
book, where the loan was not originated by TSB Bank plc which, as a result, might have less 
information about those customers.If one of the key benefits of the process is that there is an assessment of the borrowers 
current position, including repayment strategy, so they can make a fully informed decision 
about their mortgage (as TSB Bank plc said in its response to my first provisional decision), 
then those benefits derive from the process, not from its outcome in terms of the rate they 
are offered or not offered at the end of the process.
None of this was in dispute. Mr and Mrs A have made clear that they had no objection to 
being required to go through an advised process to obtain a new interest rate. But in 2017 
that was not offered to them, and in 2019 they declined to go through the process because it 
was clear that at the end of it a TSB rate would not be made available to them  because 
they would fail the new to bank assessment.
Whether at the end of that process Mr and Mrs A were given a TSB rate or a Whistletree 
rate, they would still have been through the process, received advice, and had the 
opportunity to consider what was in their best interests when it came to repayment of the 
capital. They would therefore have received the same benefits that TSB Bank plc identified 
as being necessary and the driver of that process.
Its clear to me that, while the process was the same, the outcome would have been different 
had Mr and Mrs A been TSB customers of TSB Bank plc, rather than Whistletree customers 
of TSB Bank plc.
Had they been TSB customers, they would have been allowed to go through a product 
switch process in both 2017 and 2019 when they requested a new rate.
And on both occasions, the process would have been used mainly for information capture 
and wider advice, as well as to determine which TSB rate they would have been offered. Im 
satisfied that a TSB customer who did not pass a new to bank affordability assessment 
would still have been offered a TSB rate whether in 2017 or in 2019. Whereas Mr and Mrs A 
would not have been  in 2017 they werent given the option at all, and in 2019 it was made 
clear to them that obtaining a TSB rate was conditional on them passing the assessment. 
That means that TSB Bank plc took different approaches to TSB-branded customers and 
Whistletree-branded customers. While  in 2019 at least  the process would have been 
similar, the outcome was different. A TSB customer would get a TSB rate, whether or not 
they passed the assessment; a Whistletree customer would get a TSB rate only if they 
passed it.
In those circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable that Mr and Mrs A declined to go 
through the process knowing that there was no prospect of them accessing a TSB rate.
And this, it seems to me, is the key problem with the argument TSB Bank plc made. It 
suggested that requiring it to offer Mr and Mrs A a TSB rate would cast aside the benefits 
of going through the advised process. But I dont agree with that.
Had there been the prospect of a different outcome, Mr and Mrs A would have been more 
likely to have gone through the process  and both they and TSB would have realised the 
other benefits associated with it. 
It was TSB Bank plcs insistence that  unlike TSB customers  they would not be able to 
get a TSB rate without passing a new to bank assessment they knew they would fail that 
deterred them from going through the process and resulted in its benefits being cast aside.In general, my view of TSB Bank plcs obligations in January 2017 and in 2019 in regulation 
or as a matter of good practice when dealing with an application for a product switch were:
It could offer a product switch (as a stand-alone application with no further borrowing) 
on either an execution only or an advised basis;
Where it does so on an execution only basis as a variation to the existing mortgage, 
it should ensure the customer has selected the rate from a list of all those available 
(MCOB 4.8A.10 R);
Where it does so on an advised basis, it must make a recommendation of a suitable 
mortgage (MCOB 4.7A.2 R) appropriate for that customers needs and 
circumstances. That recommendation may be either just a product switch, or may 
also include converting some or all of the mortgage to repayment terms. And there is 
nothing in the regulations preventing a lender from requiring the application to be 
advised  and there are good practice considerations as to why it might do so;
A suitable mortgage may include one which improves the customers position, even if 
it would not be suitable for a customer with no pre-existing mortgage;
If the customer rejects the recommendation, a lender may nevertheless proceed with 
a rate switch on an execution only basis (MCOB 4.7A.24 R / MCOB 4.8A.14 R (3) / 
MCOB 4.8A.10 R);
In giving effect to a recommendation (or execution only selection, as the case may 
be) for a simple product switch, there is no obligation to assess affordability (MCOB 
11.6.3 R) or interest only repayment strategy (MCOB 11.6.41 R). Where the 
recommendation is also to convert some or all of the mortgage to repayment terms, 
that requires an affordability assessment unless the transaction is otherwise in the 
borrowers best interests (MCOB 11.6.3 R / MCOB 11.6.4 G / MCOB 11.7.1 R).
None of that requires all borrowers to receive the same outcome, or prevents TSB Bank plc 
from having product eligibility criteria  including that some customers are entitled to rates 
but others are not.
However, it seems to me that in this particular case, there is an additional matter that 
TSB Bank plc ought to have factored in  but, in my view, wasnt taken account of. Of 
particular relevance in this case was that Mr and Mrs A were unable to move their existing 
mortgage to another lender as a consequence of their financial circumstances, and so 
unable to shop around for better terms.
The relevance of Mr and Mrs As position as borrowers unable to move
MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision  not a rule  setting out additional considerations 
relevant to borrowers who are unable to move their mortgage elsewhere or who are unable 
to vary the terms of their existing mortgage. In my view, this includes Mr and Mrs A. Ive said 
Im satisfied from what theyve said of their circumstances that they would have failed 
TSB Bank plcs new to bank affordability assessment. And it follows that its likely the same 
would be true of other lenders new customer assessments  especially as both applications 
pre-date the new MCOB 11.9 modified affordability assessment that lenders now have the 
discretion to apply.
In addition, Mr and Mrs A are interest only borrowers but do not have a repayment strategy. 
They would also therefore fail the assessment MCOB 11.6.41 R requires lenders to carry out 
when entering into a new interest only mortgage.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs A were in 2017 and 2019  and remain  unable to 
move their mortgage to another lender. And they were  at least when they applied in 2017 before TSB Bank plc offered new deals to Whistletree branded borrowers  also unable to 
vary the terms of their existing mortgage.
TSB Bank plc said there was no sound basis for concluding that Mr and Mrs A were 
mortgage prisoners. Though it doesnt say whether it believes they are able to move their 
mortgage to another lender should they choose to do so, or why that might be the case. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that, in practice, Mr and Mrs A were and are unable 
to move to another lender. They had, and have, no option but to stay with TSB Bank plc 
whatever decision it makes. And that makes MCOB 11.8.1 E relevant to their situation.
MCOB 11.8.1 E says
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or vary the 
terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with the 
existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with a new 
mortgage lender or home purchase provider, 
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for example, by 
offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take advantage of the 
customers situation or treat the customer less favourably than it would treat other 
customers with similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending to show 
contravention of Principle 6 (Customers interests).
Principle 6 (Customers interests) says: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Mortgage lender is an italicised and underlined phrase in the FCA Handbook, which means 
it has the specific meaning set out in the glossary. That meaning is
a firm with permission (or which ought to have permission) for entering into a 
regulated mortgage contract.
Im satisfied that means the comparison referred to in 11.8.1 E is between customers of the 
firm with permission to enter into a regulated mortgage contract. In this case that would 
mean it is to be made between customers of TSB Bank plc. And when considering the 
relevance of MCOB 11.8.1 E to Mr and Mrs A (and ultimately the relevance of Principle 6 to 
their complaint), I am satisfied that the relevant question is whether they have similar 
characteristics to other customers of TSB Bank plc (meaning both TSB and Whistletree), not 
just other customers of Whistletree  they are all customers of the firm TSB Bank plc. 
11.8.1 E is not a rule, its an evidential provision that may be relied on as tending to show 
contravention of the broader and overarching regulatory requirement for regulated firms like 
TSB Bank Plc to have due regard to the interests of their customers and to treat them fairly. 
However, the way in which 11.8.1 E is drafted makes clear that in certain circumstances it 
will not be unfair to treat customers with similar characteristics differently  the context is 
very important. 
11.8.1 E does not require all customers to be treated the same. But it does, in my view, 
show that it is more likely to be unfair to treat a borrower  such as Mr and Mrs A  who is unable to move to another lender less favourably than another borrower who shares similar 
characteristics, for example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms.
And Im not persuaded that just because a mortgage is being managed in line with its terms 
and conditions, it must always follow that a borrower is not being taken advantage of or 
treated less favourably for the purposes of 11.8.1 E and Principle 6, although that might be 
the case. There is no contractual entitlement to a new rate. But where a lender offers rates 
to some customers but not others it cannot simply rely on the lack of contractual entitlement 
to a preferential product to show fair treatment in all cases.
Where the lender allows some but not others access to a product, or offers less favourable 
terms to some customers, notwithstanding that none of its customers are contractually 
entitled, it may give rise to the possibility of unfair outcomes in some situations. 11.8.1 E 
suggests that the regulator considered there to be the potential for unfairness in a number of 
situations, including where, as in this case, borrowers are unable to shop around if refused 
by their current lender. And that is where 11.8.1 E becomes of potential relevance to Mr and 
Mrs A as borrowers unable to move and to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
TSB Bank plc says that even if 11.8.1 E were relevant, Mr and Mrs A dont have similar 
characteristics to customers of the TSB brand. TSB customers were all taken on either by 
TSB Bank plc itself or by Lloyds Bank, and all went through affordability checks  including 
having to evidence income  at the start of their loans. Mr and Mrs A, it says, were taken on 
as self-certification customers by Northern Rock. They have never had to evidence their 
income. Therefore they do not have similar characteristics to TSB customers, and its not 
unreasonable to expect them to go through the same process TSB customers have already 
been through before they can access the same rates as TSB customers.
There is some mention in the underwriting notes still available that Mr and Mrs A requested 
a self-certification mortgage and that their income wasnt verified. Though the details of the 
procedure they went through are not, with the passage of time, entirely clear.
In any case, Im not persuaded that how Mr and Mrs A took their mortgage out with Northern 
Rock in 2007 is a relevant consideration or characteristic now. I accept that Northern Rock 
and TSB / Lloyds had  in 2007  different lending criteria and different risk appetites to each 
other at that time. And so different criteria were applied to the two groups of customers. 
Though its worth noting that even if Mr and Mrs A were self-certification customers, that 
doesnt mean they werent required to pass an affordability assessment by Northern Rock; it 
simply means that they werent required to support their application with evidence of income, 
and the assessment would have been based solely on what they said.
But Im not persuaded that the different criteria and whether or not they were passed in 2007 
remain characteristics at the time Mr and Mrs A applied for rates in 2017 and 2019 for the 
purposes of MCOB 11.8.1 E and Principle 6.
I think its also worth noting that theres no suggestion that Mr and Mrs A would have been 
able to access a TSB rate if TSB Bank plc didnt think they were originally self-certification 
customers  as some Whistletree customers were not. The distinction between 
self-certification and full-certification customers appears not to have been relevant to TSB 
Bank plcs criteria at the time. It was the mere fact of Mr and Mrs A being Whistletree 
customers that prevented them being able to access any rate at all in 2017, and a TSB rate 
without passing a new to bank assessment in 2019.
Its likely that there are Whistletree customers who would not have passed TSBs criteria in 
2007, but would have done so in 2017 and 2019. And, as I said in my provisional decisions (and TSB Bank plc has not disputed or provided any evidence to refute this) its likely that 
there are TSB customers who passed TSBs criteria in 2007 but would not do so in 2017 and 
2019. There can be many, and substantial, changes in individual circumstances over ten 
years and more. In my view, what matters for the purposes of 11.8.1 E are Mr and Mrs As 
characteristics at the time of their applications for a new rate, not their characteristics in 2007
There are two limbs to 11.8.1 E  inability to re-mortgage or vary the existing mortgage with 
the existing lender; and inability to move to a new lender.
If either of those limbs are engaged  and they are alternatives  then the existing lender 
should not (for example by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer less favourably than it would 
treat other customers with similar characteristics. Again, I stress that this is not a rule  but 
it is an evidential provision that may be relied on as tending to show unfair treatment.
In my view, theres a particular obligation of fairness to a customer who is unable to move 
their mortgage to another lender. This is reflected in 11.8.1 E, which sets out an example of 
the sort of thing that might tend to show unfairness.
Where 11.8.1 E is relevant, as here, the sort of conduct by a lender that might tend to show 
unfairness includes offering less favourable interest rates than are offered to other 
customers with similar characteristics.
Mr and Mrs As 2017 application
In 2017, TSB Bank plc did not offer interest rates at all to any customers on the Whistletree 
book. Judging by what it told Mr and Mrs A, it didnt even offer them the chance to move to 
TSB by passing a new to bank assessment. 
Mr and Mrs A were, by virtue of their particular circumstances, caught by both limbs of 
11.8.1 E. Whistletree had no products available and they wouldnt have passed a TSB new 
to bank assessment  which wasnt, in any case, offered to them. So they were unable to 
remortgage or vary their mortgage with their existing lender TSB Bank plc. And they were 
unable to enter into a new mortgage with a new lender.
Not all Whistletree customers would have been unable to move to another lender. But Mr 
and Mrs A were. In my view, when Mr and Mrs A requested a new rate, TSB Bank plc ought, 
acting fairly and reasonably, to have looked into their situation to determine whether or not 
they were unable to move  and so whether or not 11.8.1 E was relevant to their situation.
But TSB Bank plc did not do that. It simply turned Mr and Mrs A away, saying it could do 
nothing for them  without giving any consideration to whether 11.8.1 E was relevant and 
whether it might, in turning them away, be treating Mr and Mrs A less favourably than it 
would have treated other TSB Bank plc customers (in particular TSB branded customers) 
with similar characteristics if those customers had applied for a preferential rate product.
Had it looked more carefully at their circumstances when they requested a new rate, it would 
have realised that Mr and Mrs A were unable to move  and that 11.8.1 E was therefore 
relevant to their situation. Because of their circumstances they were unable to move to 
another lender, the second limb of 11.8.1 E. And because of TSB Bank plcs decision at that 
time not to offer rates to Whistletree customers, they could not vary their mortgage internally 
either  the first limb of 11.8.1 E.
Ive said that the comparison is to be made between Mr and Mrs A and customers with 
similar characteristics of TSB Bank plc, both TSB and Whistletree  that Mr and Mrs A are not solely to be compared with Whistletree customers. Thats what the use of the word firm 
means in 11.8.1 E.
And it follows from that that the fact of being a Whistletree customer is not of itself in my view 
a characteristic for the purposes of 11.8.1 E. If that were a characteristic, it would prevent 
there being a comparison between customers of the firm, since customers in different books 
of the same firm could never have similar characteristics simply because the lender has 
chosen to separate them into different books. That would seem to me to defeat the purpose 
of 11.8.1 E.
I also think its clear from the wording of MCOB 11.8.1 E that the comparison envisaged is 
between customers, not between brands or books, or risk segments. In other words, I dont 
think it matters here that the TSB book and Whistletree books tend, on average, to have 
different profiles. What matters is whether Mr and Mrs A, as individual mortgage customers, 
have similar characteristics to other individual customers of TSB Bank plc and whether, 
notwithstanding those similarities (i) they have been treated differently, and (ii) if so, why.
I think it very unlikely  and again TSB Bank Plc has not provided any evidence to refute 
these findings following my provisional decisions  that there were in 2017 no existing TSB 
customers on interest only mortgages without an acceptable repayment strategy. And I think 
it very unlikely that there were no existing TSB customers whose current circumstances 
meant they would fail, or have failed, a new to bank affordability assessment or credit 
check.
Its my understanding that a TSB customer with those characteristics would still be offered a 
TSB product with a preferential interest rate at the end of an advised process if they had 
requested a new rate in the way Mr and Mrs A did. But Mr and Mrs A, as Whistletree 
customers who wouldnt pass a new to bank assessment and were unable to move to 
another lender, were in 2017 simply turned away and not offered a new product at all. And, 
other than the fact that TSB had separated them into separate books because of how/where 
the mortgages originated, I cant see why it would have treated them differently. Given what 
Ive said about similar characteristics above, Im not satisfied that this is a proper basis to 
have treated those customers differently.
I therefore dont think that Mr and Mrs A were fairly treated in 2017. In my view, 
TSB Bank plc, acting fairly and reasonably, should not have merely turned them away. It 
should have enquired into their circumstances, understood that they were unable to move to 
another lender, that they had similar characteristics to other borrowers of TSB Bank plc who 
could access rates  and should not have offered them less favourable rates or terms than 
those other customers with similar characteristics.
TSB customers of TSB Bank plc with similar characteristics would, in 2017, have been 
offered a new rate  and, in my view, acting fairly and reasonably TSB Bank plc should have 
offered Mr and Mrs A a no less favourable rate. As it did not do so, Mr and Mrs A have paid 
more than they otherwise would have done. That was, in my view, not fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs As 2018/19 application
In 2019, Mr and Mrs A were able to vary their mortgage with their existing lender, since 
Whistletree products were available to them. But they remained unable to enter into a new 
mortgage with a new lender.In 2019, TSB Bank plc did offer to take Mr and Mrs A through an assessment of their 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs A declined to go through the process, knowing the outcome 
would be that they would not be offered a TSB rate.
Had TSB Bank plc not deterred Mr and Mrs A from undergoing the advice process by telling 
them there was  in their circumstances  no prospect of them getting a TSB rate, Im 
satisfied it is more likely than not that it would have found that Mr and Mrs A didnt pass the 
new to bank assessment allowing them to move to TSB.
If they couldnt pass TSBs new to bank assessment, thats a strong indication they 
wouldnt be able to move to another lender either  especially as interest only borrowers with 
no repayment strategy. TSB Bank plc would, therefore, have been able to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs A were unable to move.
Mr and Mrs A were caught by the second limb of 11.8.1 E  and since the two limbs are 
alternatives, 11.8.1 E was still relevant. And while at this time, TSB Bank plc did make 
available rates to Whistletree customers, including Mr and Mrs A, those rates were less 
favourable than the rates it offered to TSB customers.
For the same reasons as applied to their 2017 application, I dont consider the fact of Mr and 
Mrs A being Whistletree as opposed to TSB customers to be a characteristic relevant to 
the assessment of 11.8.1 E. 
Again, TSB customers who would fail affordability and without an acceptable repayment 
strategy would be offered a TSB rate. But Mr and Mrs A, who also had those characteristics, 
would only be offered a Whistletree rate.
Had the process been followed through in 2019, therefore, it would have resulted in 
Mr and Mrs A being offered a less favourable rate than other customers with similar 
characteristics to them. And the only reason they didnt go through the process is because 
they knew that would be the outcome  choosing to complain instead.
In my view, it would have been fair and reasonable for TSB Bank plc, taking into account 
11.8.1 E and all the circumstances, to have considered their circumstances as borrowers 
unable to move lender, and at the end of the process to have offered them a rate which was 
no less favourable than would have been offered to a TSB customer with similar 
characteristics.
In both 2017 and 2019, TSB Bank plc didnt take any account of 11.8.1 E or consider 
whether Mr and Mrs A were unable to move lender and whether as a result there were any 
particular requirements of fairness that applied to them. Had it done so, it would  or, acting 
fairly and reasonably, ought  to have concluded that they should fairly have been offered no 
less favourable rates than TSB customers with similar characteristics. My final decision is 
therefore that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
The majority of the representations I received in response to my second provisional decision 
concerned the period for which Mr and Mrs A should be compensated and other matters 
relating to redress.  
I have carefully considered what is fair compensation in this complaint.  Having done so, I 
have reached the same overall conclusions as I set out in my second provisional decision 
about the steps TSB Bank Plc should now take and for the same reasons.I will now (1) set out the relevant findings and conclusions from my second provisional 
decision on these matters, then (2) set out a summary of Mr and Mrs As solicitors further 
representations, then (3) I will address those representations.  
(1) The second provisional decision
The period of redress
In my second provisional decision I said that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to decide 
not to go through the advised process for getting a new rate when they knew that it would 
not result in them getting a TSB rate  instead choosing to complain about that. And so that 
decision should not be a barrier to reworking their mortgage now. Therefore I said the 
starting point is that TSB Bank plc should re-work their mortgage as if they had taken a TSB 
rate, beginning from when a rate would have taken effect after their application.
I found as a fact (as explained above) that Mr and Mrs A first asked TSB Bank plc for a new 
rate in January 2017. Theres no obligation to pro-actively invite an application, and in the 
general case I wouldnt ask a lender to treat a borrower as if a rate had been applied before 
the borrower applied for one.
In considering whether it would be fair to depart from that starting point, I noted that 
Mr and Mrs A had spent many years with a closed book lender, NRAM, which didnt offer 
new rates  and so might have come to understand that there was no point in asking for a
new rate.
However, I also thought it important to note that Mr and Mrs A did in fact contact TSB Bank 
plc about new rates in January 2017  doing so pro-actively, before TSB Bank plc contacted 
them.
This suggested to me that Mr and Mrs A were not conditioned by the years with NRAM not 
to ask for a rate; rather, that they understood that the move to an active lender might mean 
that things had changed on that front  and that they knew they needed to ask about it. This 
puts them in the same position as any other customer of an active lender  where there is no 
obligation to offer a rate unless an application was made.
I said that where TSB Bank plc went wrong in this case was when it did not give fair 
consideration to the application in January 2017, and its from then that the redress should 
run. Allowing a notional six weeks for an application first mooted in mid-January to have 
completed, I concluded Mr and Mrs A ought fairly to have been on a TSB rate from 1 March 
2017 onwards, and that is the date I said I intended to award redress to run from. I didnt 
consider it fair to require TSB Bank plc to pay redress for not offering Mr and Mrs A a rate in 
the period before they asked for one.
I said its not clear what rate Mr and Mrs A would have selected when they applied in 
January 2017, had their applications gone ahead. And so for simplicity I thought that redress 
should be calculated by comparing the rate they actually paid with the rate they would have 
paid if they had taken out consecutive two-year fixed rate products starting on 1 March 2017 
 running up to when Mr and Mrs A actually took a new rate in April 2020. I suggested 
ending the re-work at April 2020 both for simplicity and because that was when 
Mr and Mrs A first selected the rate they actually wanted and which was no less favourable 
than rates offered to similar TSB customers.
The extent of TSB Bank plcs responsibility for Mr and Mrs As circumstancesBefore my second provisional decision, Mr and Mrs A said that I should award more than 8% 
interest on any refunded mortgage payments. And they also argued that I should award 
more than £500 compensation for their trouble and upset, and award them their legal costs. 
So, I considered those matters in my second provisional decision.  I said that: 
Mr and Mrs As arguments about the level of interest on refunded overpayments, and 
about the level of trouble and upset, are founded on their wider financial 
circumstances and the difficulties theyve faced over the years  to which they say 
TSB Bank plc contributed by keeping them on an unfairly high interest rate.
Ive thought very carefully about what theyve said, and whats been said on their 
behalf. I wont go into the details of their circumstances and the difficulties theyve 
faced, since my final decision will be published and Mr and Mrs A have made clear 
how sensitive and embarrassing a matter they consider this to be. But in summary, 
they say their financial difficulties and struggles to keep up with the mortgage have 
worsened Mrs As health in particular, have meant they have had to make substantial 
sacrifices in their family life and how they provide for their children, have led them to 
take out other debt, and have meant theyve not been able to keep their property in 
good repair.
Ive taken all that into account. Its very clear to me that Mr and Mrs A have had a 
very difficult time in recent years and for that they have my sympathy. 
However, Im not persuaded that TSB is responsible for everything that has 
happened to them. Given their health situation, Mr As employment and Mrs As 
self-employment, I think they would always have faced some financial difficulties. 
Whatever TSB Bank plc did, the last few years would have been a struggle for them.
And I must also bear in mind that when Mr and Mrs A first complained to TSB Bank 
plc, and before they brought their complaint to us, it didnt uphold their complaint  
but it did offer to put them on a Whistletree rate and to waive any early repayment 
charge that came with it so they wouldnt be tied in. Mr and Mrs A didnt accept that 
offer.
But they could have accepted it, without prejudicing their ability to pursue their 
complaint and without prejudicing their ability to be awarded a TSB rate should it be 
successful. While I accept they wanted a TSB rate, and believed they were entitled to 
one, accepting a Whistletree rate with no tie in would have reduced their mortgage 
payments without affecting their complaint that they should get a TSB rate. But 
Mr and Mrs A chose not to accept that offer, preferring to remain on the SVR while 
their complaint was dealt with. Therefore there were reasonable steps Mr and Mrs A 
could have taken to limit their losses, which they chose not to take.
I also bear in mind that Mr and Mrs A could have applied for a Whistletree rate at any 
time from when they became available in late 2017  again, reducing their outgoings 
and again without prejudicing their ability to bring this complaint. But they chose not 
to do so. 
So while Ive upheld Mr and Mrs As complaint that they should fairly have had 
access to a TSB rate, and I put them back into that position with my award, I must 
also bear in mind that TSB Bank plc is not wholly responsible for the consequential 
losses which follow.
Compensation for consequential lossesWith regard to compensation for consequential loss I said:
Mr and Mrs A havent quantified any specific financial loss  for example, with 
evidence of other debts necessarily taken out to service the mortgage payments. But 
in any case I think my award fairly compensates them for those losses. Ill explain 
why. 
Ive given Mr and Mrs A the choice of either having the overpayments that result from 
the re-working of their mortgage refunded to them, or having them used to reduce 
their mortgage balance month by month.
If they choose to reduce the mortgage balance, they will benefit from the 
compounding effect of those overpayments reducing the balance each month, and 
reducing the interest charged in subsequent months. This puts them back in the 
position they would have been in had they made elective overpayments since 2016.
It wouldnt be fair to compensate them by giving them the benefit of having made 
overpayments  and also to compensate them by giving them the financial 
consequences of having made those overpayments. It wouldnt be fair to 
simultaneously put them in the position having paid the same amount at a lower 
interest rate  as if they had paid those payments. And also to compensate them for 
losses that flow from doing so  as if they hadnt paid them.
And if Mr and Mrs A choose to have the overpayments refunded to them instead, 
TSB Bank plc should add simple annual interest of 8%. The purpose of my award of 
8% interest is to compensate Mr and Mrs A for being deprived of having that money 
for the period between them having paid it and the refund. That compensation is for 
not having had the option of using that money for other purposes  including 
spending it on their family, their property, or on avoiding other debt.
Ive said that Mr and Mrs A havent quantified their losses, but Im satisfied that there 
are losses and they should be compensated for being deprived of those monies. 
Thats why I award 8% simple interest. But it wouldnt be fair to award Mr and Mrs A 
both 8% and specific quantified losses; that would amount to double compensation. I 
cant be certain exactly what Mr and Mrs A would have done with the money had 
they not paid it to TSB Bank plc, and Mr and Mrs A havent quantified exactly what 
financial losses flow from that. In the absence of that certainty, Im satisfied that 8% 
simple interest is a fair way to compensate Mr and Mrs A for the financial 
consequences of having made overpayments.
Mr and Mrs As trouble and upset
In my second provisional decision I said:
That brings me to compensation for non-financial loss, for Mr and Mrs As trouble and 
upset.
As I say, I dont doubt Mr and Mrs A have had a very difficult time in recent years. But 
Im not persuaded that all of that should be laid at TSB Bank plcs door, and I think 
Mr and Mrs A would have faced some of the same difficulties even with a lower 
interest rate. I must also bear in mind that Mr and Mrs A could have taken a 
Whistletree rate without prejudicing their ability to bring this complaint  which would 
have significantly reduced their mortgage payments between 2018 and 2020.Im satisfied that the compounding effect of backdated overpayments, or 8% interest 
on a refund, fairly compensates Mr and Mrs A for the financial consequences of 
having paid more interest than they fairly ought to have done. And Im satisfied that 
£500 is fair compensation for the part TSB Bank plc played in what would always 
have been very difficult circumstances for Mr and Mrs A.
Legal costs
With regard to compensation for the legal costs Mr and Mrs A have incurred I said
Finally, I deal with the question of whether it would be fair to award Mr and Mrs A 
their legal costs. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the 
courts. Legal representation is not necessary to bring complaints to us. While our 
rules allow costs to be awarded, they make clear such awards are unlikely to be 
common.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs As solicitors have to say about this. But Im not 
persuaded that this is the sort of unusual case which would justify an award of costs. 
This isnt civil litigation, and the rules of court procedure dont apply, and so whether 
or not Mr and Mrs A have beaten TSBs offer, that isnt a relevant consideration.
Im not persuaded it was necessary for Mr and Mrs A to instruct solicitors to bring this 
complaint. Indeed, I note that it was only very late on that the solicitors were 
instructed  after Mr and Mrs A had very clearly stated their case to us, and after our 
investigator had given her view that it should be upheld. Nor do I consider that the 
solicitors have made any new arguments that I wasnt aware of, or that have 
changed my view of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs A are, of course, entitled to use professional representatives to assist 
them, just as TSB Bank plc are. But it is not necessary for either party to do so, the 
complaint could have been brought and resolved without doing so, and to the extent 
that either party has chosen to use professional representation its fair that they bear 
the costs of doing so themselves. I dont intend to make a costs award in this case.
(2) Mr and Mrs As further representations
The period of redress
In response to my second provisional decision, Mr and Mrs As solicitors said that where 
there was wrongdoing, it cannot be right as a matter of principle that compensation for that 
wrong is only payable from when the complainant takes steps to remedy it  rather than from 
when the wrongdoer acted. 
Applying that to this case, they said TSB Bank plc was treating Mr and Mrs A unfairly from 
the start of its ownership of their loan, and it is the unfair treatment Mr and Mrs A should be 
compensated for  from the start, not just from when Mr and Mrs A tried to do something 
about it. To find otherwise penalises consumers who are not aware that they are being 
treated unfairly.
The solicitors say that when Mr and Mrs As mortgage was moved to Whistletree, it was 
made very clear that TSB and Whistletree were separate. Mr and Mrs A didnt initially realise 
they were customers of TSB Bank plc. They had no reason to contact TSB Bank plc until 
they began to look into Whistletree and its relationship with TSB Bank plc. And they had no reason to contact Whistletree because its documents and website gave them to understand 
there were no new products available. It made very clear that nothing would change with 
their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs As solicitors say that  given the nature of the Whistletree book and the 
circumstances in which it acquired it  TSB Bank plc must (or should) have known from the 
start that many borrowers were unable to move and that MCOB 11.8.1 E was relevant to 
them. TSB Bank plc ought to have known that Whistletree customers had been kept on the 
NRAM SVR  indeed, it was NRAMs policy to do so to drive customers to redeem their 
mortgages. It ought to have known that by 2016 the only customers remaining with NRAM 
were those  like Mr and Mrs A  unable to move elsewhere. 
They say that TSB Bank plc, when it acquired the book of mortgages that became 
Whistletree, should have proactively identified those customers likely to be unable to move, 
contacted them, and taken steps to ensure they were not being taken advantage of or 
treated less favourably than similar TSB customers. It was up to TSB Bank plc to identify 
and remedy breaches of Principle 6, not sit back and wait for its customers to contact it.
The solicitors also say that it is common practice for lenders to invite customers to apply for 
new rates via websites and other advertising, and also by writing to them when existing rates 
come to an end. They say it is recognised good practice for lenders to tell customers coming 
to the end of a preferential rate that they can apply for a new one  and this is something 
TSB itself did. This meant that TSB customers were told how to apply for new rates  they 
were given unsolicited information by TSB Bank plc. But TSB Bank plc did not give the same 
information to its Whistletree customers  which delayed Mr and Mrs A making an 
application they did not know was open to them.
Had TSB Bank plc complied with its obligations to treat customers fairly  by providing 
Whistletree customers with the same information it gave to TSB customers, and by enquiring 
into their circumstances to see if they were unable to move  Mr and Mrs A would have been 
given a rate sooner than January 2017. Only awarding redress from March 2017 is to reward 
TSB Bank plc for discouraging Mr and Mrs A and others from applying. That is not a fair 
outcome.
The solicitors also say that TSB Bank plcs obligations under 11.8.1 E and Principle 6 are not 
limited to when Mr and Mrs A actively asked for rates in January 2017 and January 2019. 
Mr and Mrs A were continually unable to move to another lender throughout, and therefore 
TSB Bank plc had continuing obligations not to take advantage of them. TSB Bank plc 
should have taken steps to investigate their circumstances and remedied any unfairness, not 
sat back and waited for an application. The unfairness was present from the start.
Compensation for non-financial loss
Mr and Mrs As solicitors referred me to their previous submissions. They said that Mr and 
Mrs A had suffered reduced living standards and had invested significant time and emotional 
capital in their mortgage and this complaint. The very high rates charged by TSB Bank plc 
were the primary cause of that distress. Their mortgage payments were double what they 
should have been, and that had a very substantial impact on them.
(3) My further comments
Ive considered Mr and Mrs As solicitors further representations carefully. But, again, I 
havent changed my mind.I said in my second provisional decision that I intended to apply redress from the point at 
which a new rate could fairly have been implemented when Mr and Mrs A asked for one.
I concluded that was the point in time that TSB Bank Plc treated Mr and Mrs A (who could 
not move lenders) less favourably than they would have treated a TSB customer with similar 
characteristics.  A TSB customer with similar characteristics would like Mr and Mrs A have 
had to request and apply for a preferential rate, but they would have been treated differently 
if they had done so  that was the point at which there was unfairness.    
In their response the solicitors havent disputed my finding of fact that January 2017 was in 
fact the first time Mr and Mrs A asked for a rate. Rather, their argument is that Mr and Mrs A 
should receive redress from an earlier point (when their mortgage transferred to Whistletree 
earlier in 2016) primarily because:
(1) They say Mr and Mrs A were initially deterred from applying for a preferential rate 
because they were told Whistletree did not offer products and they did not initially 
understand that they were TSB Bank Plc customers.
(2) TSB Bank plc should, given the likelihood that many of the Whistletree customers 
were unable to move, have proactively contacted Mr and Mrs A when it acquired the 
Whistletree book to establish whether it was treating them less favourably than 
similar TSB customers.   
So, the solicitors say, by only awarding redress from the point when Mr and Mrs A requested 
a rate, I am allowing TSB Bank plc to escape the consequences of its unfair treatment for 
that period.
Whilst I accept this is not a straightforward question, I am not persuaded by what 
Mr and Mrs As solicitor has said about the period over which redress should be applied in 
this case. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs As mortgage transferred to Whistletree, it was on the then NRAM SVR 
which became the Whistletree SVR (at the same level). The level of Whistletrees SVR is not 
part of this complaint.
At that point, the mortgage was continuing to operate in line with the existing terms and 
conditions, and TSB Bank plc made no changes (other than ownership)  and no changes 
which affected the amount Mr and Mrs A were asked to pay each month. Mr and Mrs A did 
not ask for a new rate at this time.
A new rate is a variation to the mortgage contract; its not something that happens 
automatically, or at a fixed point, its something that happens on application to the lender 
with the lenders agreement.
And therefore the onus is on the borrower to apply for a new rate, not on the lender to 
pro-actively offer one. That was true of TSB Bank plcs TSB customers. A TSB customer 
coming to the end of a fixed rate would only be offered a new one if they applied. 
There are many reasons why a borrower might not ask for a rate and remain on SVR. It may 
be an active choice  to avoid being tied in, or to retain flexibility to make overpayments, for 
example. Or it may be passive or inertia  where the borrower overlooks the need to apply. 
But there was no general or regulatory obligation on TSB Bank plc to contact customers on 
SVR to offer rates, or to find out why they have chosen not (or omitted) to apply.In addition, theres no contractual or regulatory entitlement to a new interest rate; lenders 
may  depending on the circumstances  be entitled to decide to offer rates, or decide not to 
offer rates, or offer rates to some customers but not to others, or offer different rates to 
different customers. But as Ive identified earlier in this decision, there may be some 
situations where doing these things may give rise to the possibility of unfair outcomes for 
some customers in some situations, in particular where MCOB 11.8.1 E is relevant.
As I have already explained in this decision, MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision 
setting out the sorts of conduct that may tend to show unfairness, its not a rule.
It says that where a customer is unable vary their existing mortgage or move to another 
lender, their existing lender should not (for example, by offering less favourable interest rates 
or other terms) take advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less 
favourably than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics.
In my view, what this means is that  particularly in the case of borrowers who cant move to 
another lender, such as Mr and Mrs A  it might be unfair for a lender to treat that borrower 
less favourably, for example by offering less favourable interest rates, than it would treat 
other, similar, borrowers. But it does not require the lender to treat that borrower more 
favourably.
A TSB customer with similar characteristics to Mr and Mrs A on SVR would not in the 
ordinary course of events be offered a new rate unless and until they applied for one. 
TSB Bank plc was not obliged to  and would not  contact TSB customers on SVR and 
offer them a rate or invite an application for one. It was for the TSB customer to apply. And 
so I dont think MCOB 11.8.1 E  which is concerned with less favourable treatment  
suggests that TSB Bank Plc should have contacted Mr and Mrs A in a way they would not 
have been contacted had they been TSB customers.  As a starting proposition, this would 
require TSB Bank plc to treat Mr and Mrs A more favourably than similar TSB customers on 
SVR, who would not be prompted to apply for a rate.
Im mindful that Whistletree customers and TSB customers were not in the same position 
and consequently a Whistletree customer might have had less reason or incentive to apply 
for a rate than a TSB customer, because Whistletree, unlike TSB, did not offer preferential 
rates and TSB Bank plc did not in 2016 offer any basis on which a customer could get a new 
rate. 
But Im not persuaded that this means that, in order to treat Mr and Mrs A fairly in 
accordance with Principle 6 (taking into account MCOB 11.8.11 E), TSB Bank plc was 
required to contact them (and other customers) proactively when it purchased the former 
NRAM book of customers, in order to establish whether they both (i) met the qualifying 
requirements of MCOB 11.8.1E and (ii) had not applied for a preferential rate because they 
did not think there was any point in doing so (rather than for the other reasons a borrower 
might not ask for a rate that I gave examples of above).  And I do not think TSB acted 
unfairly and unreasonably because it didnt do those things. 
But even if Im wrong about the application of Principle 6 in these circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs A were themselves deterred from applying for a loan prior to 
January 2017 because they didnt think there was any possibility they could get a 
preferential rate. I am not persuaded by their solicitors and Mr and Mrs As representations 
about that. 
I dont think they would have requested a rate in January 2017 if they had thought there was 
no possibility they could get a rate. Im also not persuaded - having considered their representations throughout the course of the complaint and the records from when Mr and 
Mrs A applied for a rate in January 2017 - that they were initially deterred from applying in 
2016 but then realised there might be a possibility that they could get a rate, and so applied 
in January 2017 with that mindset.  
So I dont think TSB Bank plc treated Mr and Mrs A differently or less favourably than it 
would have treated a TSB customer in the period before they approached TSB Bank plc for 
a rate in January 2017.   
It remains my view that the effect of MCOB 11.8.1 E, insofar as it is relevant to this case, is 
that the measure of fairness lies in how Mr and Mrs A were treated when they asked for a 
rate compared to how similar TSB customers were (or would have been) treated in the same 
situation. And I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs A first thought to do that in January 2017 and 
that was when TSB Bank plc first failed to act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with them.
Nor do I think there was any other specific regulatory duty on TSB Bank plc to notify 
Mr and Mrs A, when it bought their mortgage, that they were (or ought to have been) able to 
apply for new interest rates.
There is no requirement in mortgage regulation or good industry practice to pro-actively 
contact borrowers on SVR to invite applications for a new rate. The requirements 
Mr and Mrs As solicitors have referred to operate at the point a previous rate expires  not 
to customers already on SVR. And Im not satisfied that fairness dictates that the change in 
ownership from NRAM to Whistletree was a sufficiently substantive change of circumstances 
that it created any other obligation to do so. 
In addition to that, there is a general obligation to pay due regard to information needs and 
communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading (see Principle 7 of the FCA 
Handbook). I have considered the relevance of that to this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs As previous rate expired several years earlier while they were still NRAM 
customers. I dont therefore think that TSB Bank plc failed to comply with its obligations to 
give information to Mr and Mrs A when it acquired their mortgage, or gave them less 
information than it would have given to similar TSB customers also on the SVR. It told them 
who their new lender was, that their mortgage would continue to operate on the same terms 
and conditions, and that their payments would not change. None of that was untrue or 
unclear. But there was no obligation to do more than that, nor do I think TSB Bank plc acted 
unfairly or unreasonably at that time.
Overall, I am satisfied that, as with any other customer of TSB Bank plc, Mr and Mrs A  
taking account, in their specific circumstances as borrowers unable to move, of MCOB 
11.8.1 E  should have been treated fairly at the point they applied for a new rate. And so it 
is to that point that I consider fair redress should run. 
Turning to the level of compensation for non-financial loss, I have considered again all that 
Mr and Mrs As solicitors have said about their circumstances and all the difficulties they 
faced. And I have taken into account the very difficult time they have had.
But I do continue to think that it is important to take into account that Mr and Mrs As financial 
difficulties are not the sole responsibility of TSB Bank plc. They pre-dated the transfer to 
Whistletree, and ultimately stem from the loss of work and ill health that Mr and Mrs A have 
faced. And while Mr and Mrs A paid more than they needed towards their mortgage from 
January 2017 onwards, the redress for financial loss I direct puts that right  so my award for 
non-financial loss is to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience they were put 
to. And while I dont seek to minimise how difficult and stressful that time was for them, I think that would always have been the case given their circumstances and I cant hold TSB 
Bank plc responsible for everything they went through. 
I also think its worth noting that Mr and Mrs A could have reduced their monthly payments  
albeit not by as much as they wanted  either from late 2017 (when Whistletree began to 
offer rates) or from early 2019 (when TSB Bank plc invited them to take a Whistletree rate 
and to waive the ERC), but instead they chose to remain on the SVR until April 2020 while 
they pursued this complaint. 
Taking everything into account, I remain of the view that £500 is fair compensation for TSB 
Bank plcs part in what would always have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs A.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs As solicitors chose not to make further argument about 
whether I should award legal costs. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, set 
out above, I remain of the view that a costs award would not be appropriate in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB 
Bank plc to:
Re-calculate Mr and Mrs As mortgage so that it is as if:
oThey had been given a rate equivalent to the lowest available two-year fixed 
rate applicable to TSB customers with their characteristics including loan to 
value in January 2017 with effect from 1 March 2017;
oThey had been given a rate equivalent to the lowest available two-year fixed 
rate applicable to TSB customers with their characteristics including loan to 
value at the conclusion of that rate, running to the date they took a new 
product in April 2020;
oTheir mortgage was on the product they actually selected from April 2020 
onwards.
 
Give Mr and Mrs A the choice of either:
oUsing the resulting month by month overpayments between March 2017 and 
April 2020 to reduce the mortgage balance month by month, and re-calculate 
the interest charged and balance reductions accordingly; or
oRefunding the resulting overpayments to Mr and Mrs A, adding simple annual 
interest of 8%* running from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
refund; and
Pay Mr and Mrs A £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they have 
suffered.
* If Mr and Mrs A select this option, TSB Bank plc may deduct income tax from the 8% interest 
element of my award if it considers it should do so. But it should give Mr and Mrs A confirmation of its 
deduction so that they can apply to HMRC for a refund of the tax if they are entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman