DRN-2901090
The complaint
Miss Z is unhappy with the amount of compensation offered by Santander UK Plc when they 
didnt renew her debit card upon expiry and, despite her requests, replacement cards 
werent received.
What happened
Miss Z is assisted in bringing her complaint by another party. For simplicity, I shall refer to all 
comments as having been made by Miss Z here.
Miss Z holds a current account with Santander. On 28 June 2016, she was issued with a 
debit card for use with her account.
On 4 July 2020, Miss Z called Santander. She told them that her debit card had expired and 
wanted to know why she hadnt received a replacement. Santander said that a new card had 
been issued by post. So, they agreed to stop that card and issue a replacement. Santander 
said the card would arrive in five to seven days.
Miss Z called Santander again on 16 July 2020. She hadnt received her new card. She said 
that a total of three different cards shouldve been sent, and none had been received. 
Santander offered to block the previously issued card(s) and order a new one or Miss Z 
could wait a further day to see if a card arrived. Santander also offered to raise a complaint.
Santander transferred Miss Zs call to their complaint team. They said that a renewal card 
hadnt been sent. They also thought that the replacement card ordered on 4 July 2020 had 
been blocked and a further card had been ordered on 6 July 2020. Santander didnt know 
why the card ordered 4 July had been blocked.
Santander told Miss Z that they would uphold her complaint. They offered her £75 to reflect 
the inconvenience caused. But Miss Z wasnt happy with the amount offered. She said that 
£100 would be a fair figure. They agreed to investigate matters further and call Miss Z back.
Santander called Miss Z on 21 July 2020, as agreed. Theyd completed their investigation. 
They said that a Do not renew marker had been recorded against Miss Zs card in 2017. 
They explained why this might be recorded but werent able to confirm exactly why it was in 
Miss Zs case. They also said that the card ordered on 4 July 2020 hadnt been blocked. 
They said that because 4 July was at a weekend, the order wasnt completed until 6 July 
2020. 
Miss Z was unhappy with Santanders explanations. She felt that shed been misinformed. 
She wanted to escalate her complaint further.  So, with assistance from another party, an 
email was sent to Santander on 21 July 2020 detailing Miss Zs complaint. She wanted 
Santander to pay compensation of £100.
Miss Z did finally receive a replacement card. 
Santander wrote to Miss Z on 30 July 2020 in response to her complaint. They said that her 
original card hadnt been renewed due to a marker against it. The marker had been system 
generated. But they werent able to explain specifically why in Miss Zs case. Santander 
agreed that not being informed that her card hadnt been renewed does not seem to be a 
customer friendly approach. They offered to pay compensation to Miss Z of £100.
Miss Z wasnt happy with Santanders compensation offer. She said that the amount was 
unfair in the circumstances. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Zs complaint. She thought that Santanders 
compensation offer was fair and reasonable. Miss Z didnt agree. So, she asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its relevant to say that Santander have accepted that they made mistakes here. So, the 
basis of Miss Zs complaint to this service relates specifically to the compensation offered by 
Santander. 
The starting point here stems from Santanders failure to renew Miss Zs debit card when it 
expired. Santander have confirmed that a system generated marker had been applied to 
Miss Zs debit card in 2017. This marker meant that a replacement card wouldnt 
automatically be issued when the card expired. But Santander hadnt told Miss Z this. 
Santander have explained that they issue debit cards on an account subject to status. This 
is common with most banks and is generally referred to in their terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at Santanders current General Terms and Condition which are available on their 
website. They refer to debit cards in Part 2, Section 2B.1  Current Account Important 
Information. Sub section 3.1 states If you do not have a cash card or debit card, and your 
current account allows you to have one at any time (subject to your circumstances), you may 
request one by contacting us. Sub section 3.3 also states If a cash card or debit card is 
sent to you, we will renew it from time to time with the same type of card or a different type of 
card covered by the agreement which you qualify for at the time.
Debit cards are also referred to in Santanders Current account Key Facts Document where 
it says, Unless you tell us otherwise and subject to status, a Santander debit card will be 
issued to you (if you qualify this will include contactless functionality).
So, it appears that Santanders decision to issue a debit card involves regular assessment of 
the financial status of an individual. To do this, a bank will often use their own automated 
assessment systems. This may focus on a broad range of factors, including, but not limited 
to, the operation of an individuals account and their individual circumstances at the time. I 
wouldnt expect Santander to share the details of their assessments as this would be 
sensitive information. But this services role is to ensure that any process is applied to Miss 
Zs circumstances in a fair and reasonable way. 
Santander agree that they didnt contact Miss Z ahead of her debit card expiry. Theyve said 
that this does not seem to have been a customer friendly approach. I agree with Santander 
and am pleased to hear that theyve raised a suggestion to improve their service, in this 
respect, going forward.
So, then I considered Miss Zs experiences when she asked Santander to issue a new card. 
Santander have confirmed that they ordered a replacement card on at least two occasions 
following her original call on 4 July 2020. But Miss Z didnt appear to receive these. It also 
appears that when she spoke to Santander, she was misinformed about the original card 
renewal and then about the card requested on 4 July 2020. So, I can completely understand 
why this would cause Miss Z frustration and concern. She continued to be without a debit 
card for several weeks. I think Santander couldve been more helpful with their explanations 
at the time.
Santander have confirmed that the replacement cards were ordered to go to the correct 
address for Miss Z. So, Ive been unable to find any reason why Miss Z didnt receive her 
card, once ordered. Santander said that cards are ordered through a third-party provider who despatch them by first class post. So, on the basis that the cards appear to have been 
ordered correctly, I dont think I can reasonably hold Santander responsible if the cards 
didnt arrive. They wouldnt have been able to control that. But it is unfortunate that they then 
misinformed Miss Z when she contacted them.
Miss Z believes that the compensation offered by Santander of £100 isnt fair in these 
circumstances. She referred to compensation received in respect of a previous complaint 
and didnt believe that the amount offered was appropriate here. I can only consider whether 
an award is appropriate based upon the individual circumstances of this complaint. It 
wouldnt be appropriate to compare this to other situations that are unrelated.  
Compensation is a subjective issue, and an offer which is considered fair and reasonable by 
one party may not be considered as such by another. So, I do appreciate Miss Zs point of 
view here. 
On 4 July 2020, Miss Z told Santander that she had another account that she could use. On 
16 July 2020, she confirmed to Santander that she could use online and mobile banking. 
Miss Z was also supported with funds from another party until a replacement debit card was 
received. So, I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss Z incurred any specific financial 
loss as a result of Santanders actions here. But I do appreciate that the lack of a debit card 
wouldve been very frustrating and inconvenient. 
In Santanders letter dated 30 July 2020, they increased their compensation offer to £100. 
This was the amount that Miss Z had previously suggested would be acceptable. I realise 
that Miss Z will be disappointed, but I think that the amount offered feels fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances. So, I wont be asking Santander to offer any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman