DRN-4313886
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do enough to 
protect him from the financial harm caused by a scam, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the loss.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In February 2021, Mr R needed a loan to purchase a farm for £1,400,000. He contacted a 
company Ill refer to as M, with which hed had previous positive dealings and who he knew 
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). M put Mr R in touch with a broker 
who was also regulated by the FCA and who put him in touch with another lender Ill refer to 
a G. Mr R paid the broker £3,000 for the service he provided.
He then reviewed Gs website, which looked professional and featured details of the loans 
they offered and where they were based. G told Mr R hed need to pay £51,000 as a security 
bond, after which the loan would be approved within 3 to 5 working days. They asked for a 
copy of Mr Rs ID, the bank address, details of where he wanted the loan to be paid, and a 
business plan (which cost £2,000) detailing how he planned to use the loan. 
G told Mr R he could get a loan at 3% interest over 15 years, which he thought was 
reasonable. G advised that once the whole amount of the loan had been repaid, including 
interest, the security bond would be returned.
 
Mr R asked for a monthly breakdown of fees which he was told would be provided once the 
security bond had been paid. He sent the money to G on 2 June 2021, expecting the loan 
would be approved and the funds received. But the payment bounced, so Mr R contacted G 
and was given new account details, to which he sent the funds on 8 June 2021. Barclays 
flagged the second payment, but it was released following confirmation that the payment 
was genuine. 
Mr R then received an invoice from G for £85,000 for an origination fee. He became 
concerned because this fee had never been mentioned to him before. He contacted the 
broker who told him this was a scam and not to send any further funds.
All subsequent attempts to recover the funds were unsuccessful and Mr R lost all contact 
with G, having never received the loan money. He contacted Virgin Money because he felt it 
should have advised him of the risks involved when he made the payment. He said it should 
have blocked the payment and provided advice on advance fee scams which would have 
broken the spell of the scam.
 
But Barclays refused to refund the money hed lost. It said there was no bank error in 
relation to the first payment attempt. It said the second payment was flagged, Mr R was 
contacted in line with its processes at the time and he confirmed the transaction was 
genuine. It explained that, since then, it has adopted a more robust line of questioning and 
customers are asked to confirm not only the person processing the transaction but that they 
have performed due diligence in confirming the payees identity. They are also warned of 
any potential risks where appropriate. 
It said it had considered what would have happened if it had adopted the new process and, 
given the fact hed contacted a trusted regulated broker who had referred him to one more 
suitable, he would still have instructed the payment to be processed. It pointed out he had no 
suspicions about G until February 2022 when the additional fee was requested and argued 
there would have been no difference had it told him to perform checks and provided a scam 
warning. Finally, it confirmed it did contact the beneficiary bank and no funds were 
recoverable.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained hed been unable 
to buy the farm and has had to sell cattle, sheep, and machinery because hes now unable 
to rent buildings. He wants Virgin Money to refund the money he lost, because it didnt block 
the payment or provide any scam advice. It said Virgin Money should have contacted him on 
both occasions to challenge the authenticity of the payment and asked relevant questions, 
and had it done so, he would have realised sooner that he was falling victim to an elaborate 
advance fee scam.
He said he authorised the payments on the false belief that he was paying a genuine 
company for a loan and that if Virgin Money had intervened and warned him about the risks, 
he would have realised that his situation contained the common hallmarks of a scam.
Mr Rs representative said Virgin Money failed to intervene when he made the two payments 
despite clear red flags, which included the rapid depletion of funds in the account, multiple 
unusually high payments, a sudden increase in spending, a sudden change to the operation 
of the account and a new payee. Specifically, he made two high-value transactions in six 
days, yet in the three months prior to the scam, the account was used mainly for low value 
transaction, such as £56.85 and £48.81 to Sainsbury's. And at the time of the scam, the 
account balance decreased significantly from £56,366.58 on 1 June 2021 to £4,963.53 on 2 
June 2021, which is irregular and should have raised concerns. 
They explained Mr R should have been given a warning when he set up the new payee and 
immediately before he authorised the payment, and that there were no effective pop-up 
messages.
They said Virgin Money should have contacted Mr R when the payment bounced to tell him 
it had failed due to a closed account. And it should have contacted him and asked questions 
around why he was making the payment, how he found out about the company and whether 
hed researched the company, and with that information it would have realised he was likely 
falling victim to an advance fee scam. They explained Mr R wasnt prompted to give false 
answers and so it would have had information to suggest G was a scam. 
Virgin explained the first payment on 2 June 2021 was returned by the receiving bank and 
the second payment on 8 June 2021 was made via Swift transfer and it did call him to 
confirm the payment was genuine.
Responding to the complaint, Barclays said it did contact the beneficiary bank on 8 February 
2022 when Mrs R reported the scam, but the account was closed. And it reiterated that, 
given the fact Mr R had contacted a trusted regulated broker who hed used previously, he 
would have proceeded with the payment if it had intervened.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted Mr R had initially 
spoke with M, who had recommended he should speak with a broker who referred him to G. He felt that, given Mr R had proceeded on Ms recommendation, he would probably have 
gone ahead in the face of further questioning from Barclays, so the loss still wouldve 
occurred. 
Mr R has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Hes said he would 
expect Virgin to ask probing questions as to why he was making a payment to secure a loan, 
and that this would likely have prompted it to tell him he was falling victim to a scam.
His representative maintains the payments were unusual for the account as they were to a 
new international payee and the account balance had decreased significantly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr R has lost money. I know he feels strongly about 
this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied Mr R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I have concerns around whether Mr R has 
shown G was operating a scam. But even if I accept this was a scam, I dont think an 
intervention from Barclays would have made a difference. Ill explain why. 
Prevention
Although Mr R didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Ive thought about whether Barclays could have done more when Mr R made the payments, 
because it had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr R when 
he tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect Barclays to intervene with a view to protecting Mr R from financial harm due to 
fraud. 
The second payment was blocked by Barclays systems, but it was released after a short 
call, during which Mr Rs wife confirmed the payment was genuine. Ive listened to the call and the caller asked what the payment is for and Mr Rs wife stated it was for a guarantee 
bond. The call handler noted this down and told her the payment will be processed. Ive 
considered whether Barclays did enough during this call, and I dont think it did. This was a 
very large payment to a new international payee, and in the circumstances, I think the call 
handler should have asked more questions around the purpose of the payment. 
Baring in mind the very high value of the payment, I would expect the call handler to have 
questioned Mr Rs wife in great detail about the purpose of the payment. I would expect 
these questions to examine the purpose of the loan and how Mr R came into contact with G. 
And I would expect this to include close examination of Mr Rs relationship with M and the 
broker and the circumstances of how he was introduced to G. 
 
With this information, the call handler should then have discussed the nature of the checks 
Mr R had undertaken on M, the broker and G, and provided advice on further measures to 
ensure sound due diligence. And having given this robust advice, I would expect the call 
handler to describe the sorts of scams to look out for and to draw attention the fact the 
payment had the hallmarks of a specific type of scam.
However, our investigator has said he doesnt believe a call from Barclays would have made 
a difference to Mr Rs decision to go ahead with the payment and I agree with that 
assessment. This is because even though there were fraud markers present, Im satisfied 
that Mr R believed he was borrowing money from a legitimate company. Hed had previous 
dealings with M, which was a regulated company he trusted and who provided a referral to 
someone it believed would help him to find a suitable lender. From there Mr R had dealings 
with a broker who, again, was registered with the FCA and who he trusted because of the 
circumstances of the referral from M. So, there was no reason for Mr R to question that that 
either party was genuine.
At the time he made the payment, Mr R believed G was a legitimate lender and was 
impressed by the professional looking website and the communications and emails hed 
received. Because it was based overseas, G wasnt registered with the FCA and there were 
no IOCSO warnings. And I havent seen any evidence that there was any other information 
was available about G which would have dissuaded Mr R from making the payment in 
circumstances where he reasonably believed it was a genuine company. Therefore, while I 
dont think Barclays did enough during the call, I dont think this represented a missed 
opportunity to provide a warning in circumstances when to do so might have prevented Mr 
Rs loss, so I cant fairly direct it to do anything further. 
Im sorry to hear Mr R has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Barclays is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman