DRN-4020260
The complaint
Mrs S complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) allowed an unauthorised 
withdrawal from her premium bond account. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 to explain why I thought Mrs Ss complaint 
should be upheld, but no redress offered. And I said Id consider anything else anyone 
wanted to give me before proceeding with my final decision. 
This is an extract from my provisional decision:
In October 2020, Mrs S husband (Mr S) logged into her NS&I account and withdrew 
£19,800 to a bank account in his sole name.
Mrs S noticed what had happened when she logged into the account to update her details in 
late November 2020.  
Mrs S husband had been able to access the account by using Mrs S security details which 
she had written down in a notebook that she kept for financial matters. This book was kept 
with a spare mobile telephone that she used for the same purpose. Having realised what 
had happened, Mrs S says she initially tried to resolve things directly with her husband but 
when this didnt happen, she contacted NS&I in February 2021. 
Mrs S said NS&I shouldve done more to protect her account - it shouldnt have allowed a 
withdrawal that wasnt to an account in her own name. She also felt NS&I shouldve 
contacted her, on her registered mobile, before it allowed such a high value withdrawal.   
NS&I issued its final response letter in June 2021 and it declined to offer Mrs S a refund. 
NS&I referred to the terms and conditions attached to Mrs S account. It said that as the 
withdrawal had been authorised using Mrs S genuine account security information, which 
only Mrs S shouldve known, it had no reason to believe that the withdrawal was fraudulent 
at the time and because of this, it hadnt made an error in processing it, at what appeared to 
be Mrs S request. Finally, NS&I said the delay in reporting of the fraudulent withdrawal 
meant it was unable to submit a payment recall request to the receiving bank. NS&I said the 
dispute should now be resolved between Mrs S and her husband.
Unhappy with NS&Is response, Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into things but didnt uphold it. He said he thought Mrs S allowing Mr S access to all 
of the security information needed to access and transact on her account effectively gave 
him the authority to do so. And because of this, the withdrawal now in dispute should be 
considered as authorised by Mrs S and NS&I should not now be held liable for it.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said regardless of how Mr S had gained 
access to the account, NS&I should not have allowed a withdrawal to an account that didnt 
belong to her. She pointed out that NS&Is own website said payments and withdrawals 
should be made to a personal account in the account holders own name. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the case was placed in the queue for a final 
decision. Whilst awaiting a decision, the case was reviewed again. 
Our investigator wrote to NS&I and said he now felt that the complaint should be upheld and 
Mrs S offered a refund. NS&I considered the further arguments put forward but again it 
declined to offer Mrs S a refund. It reiterated what it had said previously about the terms and 
conditions applicable to Mrs S account. And it went on to say that it believed there had been 
a deliberate failure on Mrs S part to keep her account security details safe. Finally, it said the 
funds now in dispute here should form part of Mr and Mrs S divorce settlement and Mrs S 
would likely be able to recoup the lost funds that way. NS&I pointed out that if it returned the 
funds to Mrs S now, she may ultimately have the benefit of receiving them twice.  
In response to a further information request from this service, Mrs S said the funds now in 
dispute did form part of her financial claim against her ex-husband as part of their divorce 
settlement but the process was ongoing and no agreement had yet been reached. 
Regardless, Mrs S reiterated that she believed NS&I were at fault here and reiterated that its 
actions had not only resulted in the loss of her funds but also the opportunity for her to gain 
interest and win prizes attached to the premium bonds for over two years. 
As an agreement was not reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisional decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to reach a different outcome to the one reached by our 
investigator. Im satisfied NS&I shouldve had more rigorous security systems in place in 
order to protect Mrs S from unauthorised withdrawals from her account. However, Im not 
currently minded to say NS&I should now offer Mrs S a refund of the £19,800 lost. Ill explain 
why in more detail below.  
NS&I make it clear that withdrawals can only be made to an account in the account holders 
own name. However, in this particular case, Mrs S husband was allowed to complete a 
withdrawal to an account clearly held in his name  NS&I have provided screenshots of the 
details he entered at the time of the withdrawal. When asked about this, NS&I confirmed it 
had no system in place to ensure that withdrawals were only made to accounts held by its 
customers and it had no way to verify that this was what was happening. 
Having reviewed all of the evidence available to me. I dont think this is reasonable. It is 
apparent that this rule is in place in order to protect customers from unauthorised 
withdrawals to accounts that dont belong to them  such as what has happened here. And 
NS&Is failure to adhere to its own process here has meant Mrs S husband has been able to 
gain access to the funds in her premium bonds. 
Throughout this complaint, NS&I has sought to rely on the terms and conditions attached to 
this account in order to not provide Mrs S with a refund. Specifically, it has said Mrs S failed 
to keep her account security information safe and therefore she has broken the terms and 
conditions of her account. However, Im not persuaded that its reasonable for NS&I to, on 
the one hand, seek to rely on the terms and conditions attached to this account when 
declining Mrs S claim and at the same time disregard them when considering its own obligations. Mrs S does have an obligation to keep her account security information safe, but 
NS&I also has an obligation to protect its customers accounts from unauthorised 
withdrawals. NS&Is own literature states that it shouldnt allow withdrawals to accounts that 
arent held in its customers own name and Im not satisfied that its good enough for NS&I to 
simply say it had no way to verify this at the time. 
So, having considered all of the available evidence. I dont think that NS&I did enough here 
to protect Mrs S account. However, having said the above, Im still not persuaded that it 
would be reasonable to require NS&I to offer Mrs S a refund of the lost funds now. Ill explain 
why. 
During this services investigation of this complaint, both the investigator and I asked Mrs S if 
there had been any financial separation order put in place in relation to her divorce. Mrs S 
said her divorce had been finalised but a financial separation order is still outstanding. She 
did confirm that the £19,800 now in question here will form part of any future order. 
I want to make it clear that I meant no offence to Mrs S when asking such personal and 
upsetting questions. But where there has been an allegation of fraud between married 
parties, this can often be settled when a financial separation order is taken to court, and its 
generally the most suitable route for such matters to be settled. Sometimes financial 
separation orders take place during the course of our investigation into complaints like Mrs 
S. So, it was prudent to find out if that had been the case here.
Whilst Mrs S has been able to confirm that no financial separation order is in place, she has 
been able to confirm that one is likely and the funds now in question here would most likely 
form part of it and be included in the redistribution of any matrimonial assets. She has also 
been able to confirm that it is likely she would be able to recoup the funds now in question 
here as part of this order. And, overall, Im satisfied that this is the most suitable course of 
recourse here. 
In summary, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint against NS&I but not recommend 
any redress. 
I want to say how very sorry I am to hear about the situation Mrs S and her family have found 
themselves in. I know what has happened here has had both financial and emotional 
consequences for them. I understand its been difficult to have to keep going over what 
happened too. I hope Mrs S financial matters are resolved as soon as possible, and she is 
able to move forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
NS&I didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs S responded to ask that my final 
decision be postponed. She said the process to obtain a financial settlement order was not 
an easy one and she had now found herself without legal representation. Mrs S said she 
believed her ex-husband was deliberately frustrating matters to prevent a reasonable 
settlement. Mrs S went on to say that whilst she felt reassured that NS&Is error had been 
acknowledged, she maintained that NS&I should compensate her for being without her 
money for over two years. She also wished to reiterate the emotional distress the complaint 
and the divorce process was having on her.  
I dont doubt the distress that Mrs S ongoing divorce proceedings are having on her. But my 
role is to look into the actions of NS&I and its not possible for me to postpone my decision 
indefinitely. Whilst I appreciate that a financial separation order can take some time and be 
drawn-out and upsetting, I havent been provided with any new evidence which persuades 
that an order isnt possible here. And based on everything Ive been presented with, it seems 
likely that the funds now in question here will most likely form part of and be included in the 
redistribution of any matrimonial assets. For this reason, Im still of the opinion that this is the 
most appropriate route for recourse here and I wont be asking NS&I to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Savings and Investments 
but I dont direct it to pay any redress.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman