DRN-3449996
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC suspended his credit account and feels that
they should have provided more assistance to him on the account during what was a difficult
time for him both personally and financially.
What happened
Mr M has a credit account with Barclays that was maintained close to the credit limit of
£8,000. Barclays identified the account as being in a state of persistent debt, and so issued
letters to Mr M advising him of the steps he needed to take to ensure that the account was
brought out of persistent debt. But Mr M didnt take the steps necessary to take the account
out of a state of persistent debt, and this led to Barclays suspending the account.
Mr M wasnt happy about this as he was depending on the account for his day to day
expenses while he awaited the resolution of his late fathers estate, and he also wasnt
happy that Barclays later defaulted the account for non-payment. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they felt that theyd followed the appropriate
process for accounts recognised as being in a state of persistent debt, and they noted that
Mr M has stopped making payments towards the account after it was suspended and so also
felt the they had defaulted the account fairly. However, Barclays did acknowledge that they
should have suspended interest on the account sooner than they did, and so they
reimbursed two months accrued interest back to Mr Ms account.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Mr M had explained his
difficult personal and financial situation to Barclays following the account suspension, and
they felt that Barclays should have done more to assist Mr M at that point, rather than
proceeding with the suspension and ultimately defaulting of the account as they had.
Because of this, our investigator recommended the Barclays should reimburse a further
three months interest that had accrued following the account suspension back to the account
and pay Mr M £200 compensation for the trouble and upset hed incurred. Our investigator
also recommended that Barclays remove the adverse reporting from Mr Ms credit file,
including the default, and that Barclays should reach a suitable repayment arrangement with
Mr M moving forwards.
Barclays initially agreed to the further reimbursements and the payment of compensation,
but they didnt feel that removing the adverse information or the default was reasonable in
this instance, given that it appeared to be the case that Mr M couldnt afford to meet the
contractual payments that would be due on the account.
After further discussions, Barclays agreed to remove the adverse information, including the
default, on the understanding that following this action Mr M would be expected to resume
the contractual payments due on the account, and that it he werent able to do so he would
engage with Barclays and arrange an affordable repayment plan with them.
Barclays did then remove all adverse reporting from Mr Ms account, but when Mr M spoke
with them and undertook an income and expenditure assessment, it appeared that Mr M
didnt have any available disposable income to be able to make any repayments to the
account. Mr M wasnt happy with the income and expenditure assessment that had been
undertaken on the telephone by Barclays and noted that hed agreed previously with our
investigator to make payments of £200 per month to Barclays moving forwards.
Barclays werent willing to accept the £200 per month payments on the account without an
income and expenditure assessment being completed as this amount was considerably
lower than the monthly repayments required on the account at that time. So, they sent an
income and expenditure assessment form to Mr M in the post for him to complete and return.
But Mr M didnt complete the income and expenditure form and return it to Barclays in a
timely manner, and so Barclays resumed collections activities on the account.
At this point, with Mr M unhappy that Barclays wouldnt accept the £200 per month offer that
he felt had been agreed earlier, and with Barclays unhappy that theyd removed the adverse
information from Mr Ms credit file on the basis of repayment promises that Mr M hadnt met,
the complaint was reopened and re-assessed by another of our investigators.
This second investigator didnt feel that it was fair that Mr M hadnt resumed contractual
repayments on the account following the removal of the default by Barclays, and so they
recommended that if Mr M continued to be unable to clear all the arrears on his account and
resume contractual repayments that the default and other adverse information should be
reapplied to the account by Barclays.
Our investigator also felt that following this, Barclays should accept Mr Ms offer of £200 per
month and set up a payment plan on that basis accordingly.
Mr M wasnt happy that the adverse information and default might be reapplied to his
account, and Barclays noted that they werent willing to reopen Mr Ms account. So, the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 March 2022 as follows:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) considers that a credit account is in a state 
of persistent debt if the level of interest which accrues on that account is such that 
the monthly payments made towards that account result in the customer paying more 
in interest and charges than they do towards paying off the capital balance on the 
account over a prolonged period.
This can often be the case where a customer is paying close to the minimum 
payment required on the account, or is maintaining the balance of the account close 
to the agreed credit limit, which can result in the customer repaying the monthly 
interest that accrues but making little progress towards reducing the capital balance 
outstanding on the account - meaning that monthly interest payments at a similar 
level keep becoming due.
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such a situation for credit 
account holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must 
manage accounts that are considered as being in a state of persistent debt. These rules came into force in March 2018 and include that a credit provider must send 
letters to persistent debt customers advising that their account is considered as being 
in persistent debt and explaining the level of additional monthly payment that the 
customer needs to make so that their account is no longer considered as being in 
such a state.
These letters should also advise customers of the potential consequences, should 
their account remain in a state of persistent debt, which can include the suspension 
of the account and the initiation of a payment plan designed to clear the full 
outstanding balance over a period of no more than four years.
Barclays contend that they followed the FCA rules surrounding persistent debt in this
instance. They sent the requisite letters to Mr M, and when Mr M didn't take the steps
necessary to take his account out of persistent debt, and didnt engage with them 
about this matter, Barclays suspended his account and advised Mr M of the need to 
clear the full outstanding balance owing on the account.
Barclays have provided this service with templates of the persistent debt letters that 
were sent to Mr M in October 2018, July 2019, and in January, April, and August 
2020. And while Barclays havent been able to provide system notes confirming that 
all these letters were sent, they have been able to confirm that the majority of these 
letters were sent.
However, I feel that its more likely than not, on balance, that Barclays did send all 
the persistent debt letters to Mr M that they have record of. But even if I did accept 
that Barclays didnt send some of the persistent debt letters to Mr M, I feel that the 
letters that Barclays have been able to confirm via system notes are sufficient for me 
to conclude that Barclays did provide reasonable notice to Mr M that his account was 
considered as being in a state of persistent debt, as well as providing Mr M with 
information about the steps he needed to take so that his account was no longer 
considered as being in such a state  which in short meant making larger payments 
to the account to reduce the capital balance outstanding.
But while Mr M was making monthly repayments that were larger than the minimum 
monthly payments required of him, Mr M was also using the account, meaning that 
the capital balance outstanding on the account didnt reduce over time. This meant 
that Mr Ms account remained in a state of persistent debt, and I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Mr M engaged with Barclays about this. Because of this, I 
feel that it was reasonable for Barclays to have suspended Mr Ms account on the 
basis of it remaining in a state of persistent debt when they did.
Following the suspension of his account Mr M stopped making monthly payments 
towards it. Mr M also contacted Barclays and explained his personal and financial 
position at that time, which was that he was awaiting the resolution of his late fathers 
estate and that he wouldnt be able to make significant reductions to the capital 
balance outstanding on the account until that point.
I can appreciate how Mr M might have been disappointed to have had his account
suspended, but this didnt absolve him of his responsibility to have made the ongoing
monthly payments that were due on the account. And because Mr M did stop making
monthly payments I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable of Barclays to have 
then considered that account as having fallen into arrears and reported these arrears 
to the credit reference agencies. Consequently, I also dont feel that it was unfair or 
unreasonable of Barclays to subsequently default the account when the amount of 
arrears that had accrued on the account had grown to a significant level.This is because Barclays, like all credit providers, have an obligation to make 
accurate reports to the credit reference agencies as to how a customer has 
maintained their account. This includes that when a customer cant meet the 
repayment commitments required by the account, that this is reported by the credit 
provider to the credit reference agencies.
This means that its almost always the case that unless a customer is able to meet 
the repayment commitments required on their account  including if a customer can 
only make partial payments towards the account, or receives some other form of 
agreed financial assistance from the credit provider - that the credit provider is 
obliged to report this to the credit reference agencies, usually in the form of payments 
being missed and as arrears having accrued on the account.
And while I can understand how Mr M might feel that Barclays could have provided 
some form of financial assistance to him when he advised Barclays of his difficult 
circumstances following the suspension of his account, I note both that Barclays had 
been inviting Mr M to engage with them about his financial position via the persistent 
debt letters theyd been sending over the course of the previous two years, and also 
that any financial assistance that Mr M might have received would still have resulted 
in adverse information being reported by Barclays to the credit reference agencies, 
and wouldnt have prevented the reasonable defaulting of the account for non-
payment.
The original investigator that looked at this complaint took a different position here 
and felt that Barclays should have provided some form of tailored financial support to 
Mr M at that time. And as result they recommended that Barclays should remove the 
adverse credit file reporting, including the default, from Mr Ms credit file.
Barclays were initially reluctant to amend Mr Ms credit file and felt that Mr Ms 
financial position remained such that he was likely to be unable to resume the full 
repayments that would become due again on the account, such that they felt it was 
likely that Mr Ms account would later be defaulted again. However, following some 
discussions with our investigator, Barclays agreed to remove the adverse information 
from Mr Ms credit file but explained that having done so the obligation for Mr M to 
make the monthly payments required on the account would resume.
This appears to be where some confusion has occurred, and Mr M seems to have 
believed that Barclays were agreeing to remove the adverse information from his 
credit file and then accept an offer that hed made to the investigator of £200 per 
month to repay the balance outstanding on the Barclays account.
But the monthly payments required by Barclays were significantly more than £200 
per month. And when Mr M later received a letter from Barclays explaining that a 
larger monthly payment needed to be made, he wasnt happy about this and brought 
the matter back to this service.
I can appreciate why Mr M might be frustrated here. But I must reiterate that in order 
for the account to not be considered as accruing arrears and to not be reported to the 
credit reference agencies as such, Mr M would need to make the full monthly 
payments required on the account. And any partial payments, even if those partial 
payments amount to £200 per month, would not be regarded as a full payment and 
arrears would be considered as accruing on the account  which Barclays would then 
have an obligation to report to the credit reference agencies.I make this reiteration because it seems from the correspondence between Mr M and 
this service that Mr M would like to be able to repay the balance outstanding on the 
account at £200 per month but to not have any adverse information reported to the 
credit reference agencies. But such an arrangement isnt tenable, and as explained, 
if Mr M cant make the full account repayments required by Barclays then it would be 
expected that Barclays would report this to the credit reference agencies. And, if the 
amount of arrears on the account grew to a significant level, then it would be 
expected that Barclays would default Mr Ms account again  which have the effect of 
freezing the balance outstanding and prevent Mr M from falling any further into debt.
Ultimately, it seems clear to me here from the various pieces of information that Mr M 
has provided that he wasnt in a position to be able to meet the full repayments that 
were due on the account following the removal of the default by Barclays. I therefore 
dont feel that the default should have been removed at that time, and my provisional 
instructions here are that Barclays should reapply the default from the date it was 
originally recorded and treat the account as having been defaulted from that date 
accordingly.
This includes that Mr Ms account balance should have been frozen at the amount 
that it was at the time the default was first applied, and so my provisional instructions 
also include that Barclays must reimburse to Mr Ms account any interest and 
charges that have been incurred or accrued since the date of that first default.
I note that, as per the recommendation put forwards by our original investigator, 
Barclays have already reimbursed to Mr Ms account interest charged on the account 
between the date of the account suspension and the date of default, as well as paid a 
payment of £200 compensation to the account to further reduce the outstanding 
balance. This feels fair to me, and Im satisfied that no further action from Barclays is 
merited in this regard.
Finally, I note that in their later view of this complaint, our second investigator 
recommended that Barclays reopen this account so that Mr M can use it again and 
that Barclays should allow Mr M to pay £200 per month towards it. However, given 
that my position here is that the account should have been reasonably defaulted at 
the point that Barclays did first default the account, and should have remained 
defaulted, I dont feel that Barclays should reopen the account in this instance. This is 
because once an account has been defaulted, it is no longer possible for that 
account to be used by the account holder.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
and comments or new information they wished me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Barclays confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mr M did provide some comments for my review.
Several of the points that Mr M raises were clearly addressed in my provisional decision 
letter and my position on these points hasnt changed. As such I will not address these 
points further at this time. However, there are some points that Mr M has raised which I feel 
it is appropriate for me to respond to and clarify my position on.
Firstly, Mr M explained that he didnt feel that due consideration had been given to the 
difficult personal circumstances hed faced during the time in question, as well as the 
difficulties imposed by the restrictions surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic. Id like to 
reassure Mr M that I did take these factors into consideration, and while I sympathise with  
Mr M in regard to the difficult personal circumstances he faced at that time, I dont feel that 
these circumstances absolve Mr M of his responsibilities in regard to this account or required Barclays to have provided forms of financial assistance to Mr M above and beyond those 
that would be reasonably expected as explained in my provisional decision letter.
Mr M has also stated that the £200 per month offer of repayment was suggested and 
initiated by this service, and specifically by the original investigator that first reviewed this 
complaint. However, Ive listened to a recorded telephone call between Mr M and our original 
investigator that took place on 25 June 2021 where our investigator asked Mr M whether 
hed be able to resume the contractual repayments that would become due on the credit 
account if the default was removed. In response to this question, Mr M states that he should 
be able to afford £200 or £300 per month. As such, Im satisfied that it wasnt our original 
investigator that first proposed a monthly repayment amount of £200, but that it was initially 
proposed by Mr M himself.
As stated in my provisional decision letter, I feel that there was a certain degree of confusion 
surrounding this point. But at no point have I seen anything from Barclays which confirms or 
suggests that Barclays would be happy to accept monthly repayments lower than the 
contractual repayments required on the account without reporting such lower payments to 
the credit reference agencies or considering that arrears were accruing on the account. 
Furthermore, as explained in my provisional decision letter, it wouldnt be expected by this 
service that Barclays would agree to such non-contractual terms. 
It's also notable that during the telephone conversation that took place between Mr M and 
our original investigator in June 2021, that Mr M makes reference to clearing the balance in 
full when the sale of a property completes. And Mr M repeats this statement in his response 
to my provisional decision letter received in March 2022. 
I can appreciate Mr Ms position here, but the terms of the credit account require monthly 
repayments, and it wouldnt be expected that Barclays would forego those terms on the 
promise of a lump sum payment at an undisclosed time. Rather, it would be expected that 
Mr M would continue to make the required monthly payments in line with the terms of the 
account and then clear the balance if he wanted to do so on completion of the property sale.
Mr M has also reiterated that he stopped making payments to the account as a result of the 
dispute he had with Barclays about the account. However, I can only reiterate myself that 
any dispute that Mr M had with Barclays didnt absolve him of his responsibility to meet the 
contractual repayment terms required on the account. It therefore remains my position that I 
dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably by considering Mr M to have fallen 
into arrears following his not making the monthly payments required on the account.
All of which means that my overall position regarding this complaint remains the same as 
outlined and explained in my provisional decision letter. As such, I can confirm that my final 
decision will be as is outlined in my provisional decision letter. For the sake of clarity, I will 
repeat the key summary paragraphs of my provisional decision here:
Ultimately, it seems clear to me here from the various pieces of information that Mr M 
has provided that he wasnt in a position to be able to meet the full repayments that 
were due on the account following the removal of the default by Barclays. I therefore 
dont feel that the default should have been removed at that time, and my provisional 
instructions here are that Barclays should reapply the default from the date it was 
originally recorded and treat the account as having been defaulted from that date 
accordingly.
This includes that Mr Ms account balance should have been frozen at the amount 
that it was at the time the default was first applied, and so my provisional instructions also include that Barclays must reimburse to Mr Ms account any interest and 
charges that have been incurred or accrued since the date of that first default.
I note that, as per the recommendation put forwards by our original investigator, 
Barclays have already reimbursed to Mr Ms account interest charged on the account 
between the date of the account suspension and the date of default, as well as paid a 
payment of £200 compensation to the account to further reduce the outstanding 
balance. This feels fair to me, and Im satisfied that no further action from Barclays is 
merited in this regard.
Finally, I note that in their later view of this complaint, our second investigator 
recommended that Barclays reopen this account so that Mr M can use it again and 
that Barclays should allow Mr M to pay £200 per month towards it. However, given 
that my position here is that the account should have been reasonably defaulted at 
the point that Barclays did first default the account, and should have remained 
defaulted, I dont feel that Barclays should reopen the account in this instance. This is 
because once an account has been defaulted, it is no longer possible for that 
account to be used by the account holder.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman