DRN-3598594
The complaint
Miss O complains about how Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) allowed direct debits to be 
debited from her bank account when they were previously cancelled. Miss O is also unhappy 
with how she was treated when she tried to sort the matter out with the bank. 
What happened
Miss O switched her account to RBS in February 2022. 
Following the account switch a direct debit to her old phone provider was paid when it 
shouldnt have been. This happened on more than one occasion leaving Miss O in a difficult 
position financially.
Miss O says she took some of her belongings to a high street pawn broker in order to raise 
the money she needed and was then unable to buy them back due to the direct debit 
payment being taken.   
Miss O says she was unhappy with the service she received when she contacted the bank. 
She has explained she made a number of calls and spent a lot of time on the phone dealing 
with the customer service.
RBS said the direct debit to the phone provider was switched to the new account as it 
showed as an active payment on Miss Os previous account. RBS said when Miss O 
cancelled that direct debit in March 2022 it was reinstated by the company. And so when 
payments were requested RBS honoured them. It said this was its process and was followed 
correctly. 
RBS said when the initial complaint was raised on 8 March 2022 it confirmed the direct 
debits had gone unpaid and as such no funds debited the account. RBS acknowledged the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss O and in recognition it paid her £30. RBS said 
when Miss Os account was switched over the active direct debits were also switched. And 
so when the direct debits presented on 8 March 2022 Miss Os funds available was affected 
until the next working day. Miss O had cancelled the direct debits using her online banking.   
And so RBS paid a further £50 to Miss O for the upset caused. 
Miss O raised a further complaint in April 2022 regarding the direct debits. RBS said it told 
Miss O that the direct debits to the phone provider had transferred when the account was 
switched. And the phone provider had set up new payment requests which meant when they 
were requested the payments were honoured. RBS apologised that Miss O was unhappy 
with the service received and paid a further £25 as compensation. 
Miss O wasnt happy with the response from RBS. She says she wants the bank to replace 
the items she lost at the pawn brokers, together with an increase in compensation for 
herself, her partner, and her landlord since she was unable to pay her rent. So she referred 
her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Os complaint. She said she thought RBS didnt deal with 
Miss O fairly. She said Miss O had asked RBS why the direct debit guarantee wasnt being 
adhered to and why she had to wait 24 hours for the funds to be available. Our investigator 
said she felt RBS could have prevented the situation escalating, and RBS lack of response 
to Miss O lead to more frustration. She thought £200 in recognition of the distress and worry 
caused was fair. RBS agreed. 
Miss O didnt agree with our investigators view. And so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the impact this matter has had on Miss O and I dont underestimate how difficult 
things have been for her. I want to assure Miss O I have listened to the calls provided to me 
by RBS and looked at the evidence provided by both parties. 
I want to make clear our service is not the regulator of financial businesses, so we dont fine 
or punish businesses, or monitor how theyre operating in general. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to resolve individual disputes between firms and 
their customers. I say this because I know Miss O wants RBS to recognise what it did wrong 
and to change its systems. My powers here dont extend to telling RBS how to run its 
business. 
RBS provided evidence to show it ensured existing payment mandates were set up on Miss 
Os new account as detailed in its account switching guide. It also showed the direct debits 
which were switched to the new account and the phone provider is listed. 
I can see RBS told Miss O that to avoid the issue happening again she should contact the 
company directly in addition to cancelling the direct debit with the bank. This is because the 
company can reinstate the direct debit if they feel they are owed money and have an 
agreement. Miss O says her account with the phone provider defaulted the previous year. 
But I cant say RBS did anything wrong here since it isnt able to set up new direct debits 
without the consumers consent. It appears the phone company reinstated the direct debits 
and RBS had to honour the payments.  
I understand it was frustrating for Miss O to see direct debits she thought were cancelled 
debiting her account. There is no question the direct debit was cancelled by Miss O in March 
once the account switched. The direct debit system gives the company being paid the 
flexibility to control the collection of monies from customers accounts. To protect customers 
RBS, like all banks, are part of the guarantee scheme which means any payment incorrectly 
collected by the originator will be refunded. 
While RBS cancelled the direct debit as instructed it didnt anticipate the phone provider 
would set this up again in error and attempt to collect further payments. Miss O says RBS 
shouldnt have had the phone provider on its list of active debits and shouldnt have allowed 
the direct debit to go through after she cancelled it. RBS said the phone provider did this and 
when Miss O requested the direct debits be recalled thats what it did. This is why, in part, 
the direct debit guarantee scheme is in place  so errors like this can be put right. 
Our investigator asked RBS why the payments werent immediately refunded as per the 
guarantee but it wasnt able to provide an explanation. And this isnt the service I would 
expect from RBS. So I am upholding this part of the complaint.Compensation 
It might also help Miss O to note that it doesnt automatically follow that because the 
business did something wrong it should therefore be responsible for all the losses a 
customer says theyve suffered.  
I know Miss O wants to be compensated for the items lost at the high street pawn brokers 
but as explained by the investigator since the contracts with the brokers are not in her name 
we cant consider them. In the same way her partner isnt named on her bank account and 
therefore we can only consider distress and inconvenience to Miss O, and not her partner. 
He is not named on the account and is therefore not eligible to bring a complaint to this 
service about RBS. 
RBS has already paid Miss O compensation of £105 in total for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter. 
Putting things right
To compensate Miss O for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience RBS have caused it 
should pay her a further £200 compensation. I say this because RBS havent been clear in 
why the direct debit guarantee wasnt adhered to.  And its clear to me the impact on her of 
that wrong information and her prolonged efforts to try and sort the situation out has caused 
particular stress and upset to Miss O.  Im therefore satisfied that £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for this, in addition to the £105 already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above I direct Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Miss O £200 in 
resolution of her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman