DRN-2089552
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society. She would 
like £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
On 26 March 2020 Mrs C went into her local Nationwide branch to pay cash in over the 
counter. She was asked by staff to use the cash machine outside because of temporary 
changes made by the business due to the pandemic. Mrs C wasnt comfortable with this as 
she had a large sum to deposit and people were not exercising social distancing rules. 
Despite her concerns, Mrs C did deposit her cash.
Mrs C says she called the branch manager later that day as she had more cash to deposit 
the following day and wanted to arrange to pay her cash over the counter. Mrs C says she 
was told by the branch manager they would make an exception for her. However, Mrs C 
says when she went in the following day a staff member was rude to her and told her they 
had no record of the agreement made by the manager. Although the staff member did finally 
take Mrs Cs cash over the counter, Mrs C says the experience left her feeling very 
embarrassed and humiliated and she still feels unable to visit the branch even now.
Nationwide said it had been asking all members to use the outside cash machine to deposit 
cash to limit the risk involved with COVID-19. It has been unable to comment on the 
interaction with branch staff as it had no records of the events or record of the telephone call. 
It apologised for any unintentional upset and for the disruption of its services caused during 
this stressful time.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint, she didnt feel the business had treated Mrs C 
unfairly as it had offered an alternative option to depositing cash by using the machine 
outside. She did not think this had impacted Mrs C financially.
Mrs C didnt agree. In summary, Mrs C felt Nationwide made significant mistakes in relation 
to the original incident and with its subsequent handling of her complaint. Mrs C says the 
incident was distressing, and she felt publicly humiliated to the extent that she is still 
suffering psychologically. Mrs C says she remains uncomfortable going into the branch and 
has resorted to using the outside cash machine  which offers a limited banking service.
I asked Nationwide further questions about the events of 26 and 27 March 2020; specifically, 
the branch managers recollection of the telephone conversation of 26 March 2020. She is 
unable to remember this incident in full but said that if Mrs C had called the branch, she 
would have been told that she could use the outside cash machine to deposit the money due 
to it processing essential transactions only. She also said that if Mrs C came into the branch, 
staff could provide an envelope so she would not have to stand out on the street to sort her 
money out. The branch manager also explained that unfortunately calls into the branch are 
not recorded so she cannot say for definite, but should local measures have been agreed, 
this would have been communicated on their internal note system and to the cashiers.
I wrote to Mrs C informally on 11 June 2021 to explain I had reached the same outcome as 
the investigator but some of my reasoning was different and I also shared the further 
recollections of the branch. Mrs C did not accept my findings.
As the case could not be resolved informally, I have gone on to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator but some of my 
reasoning is different.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs C has presented to 
us, but I have read all of her submissions. Im not responding to every single point made but 
instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of his 
complaint.
On 26 March 2020 Mrs C tried to deposit cash over the counter and was directed to the cash 
machine outside where she was able to pay her cash in. This was because Nationwide was 
trying to limit over the counter interaction to minimise risk of COVID-19, which doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me. I appreciate Mrs C wasnt notified of this change in advance of her visit, 
but this was only a few days into the unprecedented situation of a National lockdown; which 
undoubtedly caused much disruption to Nationwides normal operation and little time within 
which to notify its consumers.
On 27 March 2020 Mrs C was ultimately able to pay cash in over the counter. Nationwide 
said that it the machine breaks down or stocks of envelopes run out  it will take cash 
deposits over the counter.
Mrs C has referred to the investigators findings of 9 July 2020 and that the investigators 
narrative backs up her version of events. However, as I explained to Mrs C in my email of 11 
June 2021, I have considered Mrs Cs complaint about the staff interactions differently to the 
investigator. In my view, its clear theres a dispute between the parties about the finer detail 
of what happened with Mrs Cs interactions with the branch staff. Where there is a dispute 
about what happened, in order to uphold the complaint, I need to be persuaded that Mrs Cs 
version of events is more likely than not - based on the balance of probabilities.
In terms of the phone call, I dont doubt Mrs C made a call  but I cant know for certain what 
was discussed. Although Nationwide had no contemporaneous records of the call or visit, it 
did provide its recollection of events both when it provided us with its file and again, when I 
specifically went back to Nationwide to ask for its recollections of the telephone conversation 
 which I outlined above and in my email to Mrs C dated 11 June 2021.
Because the two parties version of events are in direct conflict and there is no other 
evidence to support either version, I cant safely say Mrs Cs version is more likely  only 
equally likely - to that of the business. Therefore, I cant safely say the business did 
something wrong.
Nationwides letters of 6 April and 16 April 2020 were final response letters  effectively 
Nationwides final answer on Mrs Cs complaint. Both letters gave referral rights to our 
service if she was unhappy with the outcome - so I wouldnt anticipate Nationwide continuing 
to enter into a dialogue with Mrs C when it was clear a referral to this service had been 
made. I appreciate Mrs C says she did not receive the letter dated 16 April 2020 and I asked the investigator to send her a copy before completing my decision.
I dont dispute Nationwides letter of 6 April 2020 highlighted the incorrect date of the branch 
visit and do understand why Mrs C doesnt feel the complaint has been thoroughly 
investigated by Nationwide. But I dont think this warrants compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
I do understand that Mrs C feels strongly, and I dont doubt that the events she has 
described have caused her distress and inconvenience. I know Mrs C will be disappointed 
by this outcome, but when looking at the events of 26 and 27 March 2020, I can only make 
an award for distress and inconvenience if the business did something wrong or made a 
mistake. I cant safely say that it has here. 
In terms of errors made in the handling of the complaint, including the incorrect date on 
Nationwides letter of 6 April 2020, I do not feel this warrants an award for distress and 
inconvenience.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman