DRN-3192309
The complaint
Mr S complains about Uniec Prestige Limited (Uniec), an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect Limited (Tenet). He says Uniec gave him unsuitable advice when it 
recommended that he transfer out of his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP). 
For ease, Ill refer to Tenet throughout my decision, which should be understood to include 
Uniec. Mr S is represented in this matter by a third party (the representative).
What happened 
Mr S approached Tenet for advice on 12 March 2017. Following a meeting, a fact find, 
financial planning questionnaire and pension transfer attitude questionnaire were completed 
for Mr S. In summary, Tenet recorded the following: 
Mr S was 61 years old, married and in good health. He had no financial dependents.
Mr S was employed, earning £44,000 per annum (pa) and receiving £65 per month 
from a pension with a former employer. His wife was retired, receiving £11,000 pa in 
pension income. 
Mr and Mrs S annual expenditure was £22,260, expected to be £19,500 in 
retirement. 
Mr and Mrs S were debt-free, the value of their home was approximately £350,000. 
Mr S had around £200,000 in savings held in Bonds and Cash Individual Savings 
Accounts (ISAs). He also had £19,382 invested in a Stocks & Shares ISA. Mrs S 
expected inheritance of £75,000 which was in probate at the time
In total, Mr S had six pensions: a pension already in payment; an OPS pension with 
his existing employer with a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of £201,176.76; 
a Group Personal Pension (GPP) Plan with a CETV of £47,127.38 into which his 
employer contributed 15% of his salary each month; two Section 32 (S32) Buy Out 
Plans with a combined transfer value of £29,799.84 and a personal pension plan 
(PPP) with a CETV of £114,650.60.
Mr S wanted to retire by December that year, at age 62. His attitude to risk (ATR) 
was moderately cautious, his willingness to accept risk was lowest medium, and 
his capacity for loss was small to medium. 
In order of importance, Mr S priorities were 1) retiring early, 2) having personal 
control over his pension fund, and 3) providing a lump sum to his wife and children 
after he died. If transferring was deemed suitable, another priority was having greater 
fund choice.
A Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report was produced in April 2017, with Tenets Suitability 
Report for Mr S finalised in May 2017. In summary, Tenet said the following in its report:
Mr S wanted to retire and spend more time with his family. He also wanted control 
and flexibility over his OPS pension, and the ability to invest in a wide range of funds. 
Although Mr S said that as he wanted to retire that year he wanted to invest his 
pension fund in the short term, the time span was likely longer given that he also 
wanted to preserve the fund, leaving some of it as a lump sum to his wife and 
children upon his death.
Mr S didnt intend to take tax free cash (TFC) but wanted the option in the future.
Mr S needed a higher income between ages 62 and 66 before his state pension and 
S32 plans started being paid and bridged the income gap enabling him to retire early. 
At age 66 Mrs S would also have her state pension and together, Mr and Mrs S 
would have secure pension income from other sources to cover their essential 
expenses. This gave Mr S scope to be more flexible with his OPS pension.
Taking benefits from Mr S OPS wasnt an option as they were too low to support 
early retirement and didnt provide the flexibility to vary income.
The investment return (critical yield) required from an alternative pension 
arrangement to match Mr S OPS benefits available from age 65 was 16% pa. If Mr S 
took maximum TFC, it was 6.65%.16% was unrealistic growth, so 
Mr S would likely receive lower benefits by transferring. However, this had to be 
weighed up against the importance of achieving his objectives at that time.
It was agreed that Mr S would leave his GPP where it was until he retired and left his 
employer. His S32 plans would also remain where they were.
As he had sufficient guaranteed pension income from other sources, Tenet advised 
Mr S to transfer his PPP and OPS to a PPP investing in a collective investment 
scheme before moving into Flexi-access Drawdown when he turned 62.
Mr S accepted Tenets advice and later transferred. 
In August 2020, through his representative, Mr S complained to Tenet about the advice hed 
received in 2017. Tenet responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it, saying the advice 
was suitable and clearly met Mr S stated objectives.
Unhappy with Tenets response, Mr S representative referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the matter, concluding that the complaint should be 
upheld. In short, he didnt think transferring was in Mr S best interests. 
Tenet responded and disagreed, in summary, saying that Mr S objectives presented a 
strong case for transferring and the available evidence supported this 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why. 
The regulators positionAt the time of Tenets advice, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out 
the principles for assessing suitability. The relevant rules in the FCAs Handbook and 
Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) are 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. These required Tenet to gather 
sufficient information from Mr S to ensure its recommendation met his objectives; that Mr S 
could financially withstand the risks associated with these objectives and that Mr S had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
DB schemes like Mr S OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving these 
up and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable 
investment returns should only be done where it can be shown its clearly in the best 
interests of the consumer. Under 19.1.6 the COBS rules at the time of the advice said:
When advising a retail client who is () a member of a defined benefits occupational 
pension scheme (), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer () will not be suitable. 
A firm should only consider a transfer () to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, () is in the retail clients best interests. 
Given the regulators position, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
So, Tenet shouldve only considered a transfer if it could appropriately demonstrate that 
there were compelling reasons why, instead of maintaining safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS, the transfer was in Mr S best interests. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Mr S position at the time of Tenets advice
At the time of the advice, Mr S was 61 years old with almost 14 years qualifying service in 
his employers OPS. In addition to his OPS and state pension entitlement, Mr S retirement 
provision comprised of five other pensions, three of which would have provided guaranteed 
income. But it was Mr S OPS benefits which were the backbone of his retirement provision, 
making up over 50% of the total transfer value of his pensions. And when considered 
alongside his wifes relatively modest pension provision, Mr S OPS benefits also 
represented the largest proportion of the couples future retirement income.
Mr S had no debts or dependents. He owned a mortgage free property, held £200,000 in 
savings, and had almost £20,000 invested in a Stocks & Shares ISA. By all general 
appearances, Mr S financial position was rather favourable, and Tenet concluded that this 
afforded Mr S the freedom to be more flexible in the approach he took with his pensions.
Given how long Mr S had been working and his proximity to state retirement age (age 66), 
its understandable that he wanted to consider his retirement options, including transferring 
out of his OPS. But by transferring, Mr S would be giving up what was intended to provide 
the vast proportion of his secure income in retirement, in favour of an uncertain income 
largely reliant on the investment performance of a new arrangement. So, notwithstanding   
Mr S good financial position  to which his OPS was a significant contributing factor  I think 
transferring represented a relatively risky strategy, which shouldve made Tenet proceed 
with caution. 
Furthermore, while Mr S circumstances may have indicated he had some capacity for loss, 
his answers to Tenets questionnaires, made it clear that exposure to financial risk, 
uncertainty and potential losses werent things he was entirely comfortable with. Notably, 
Mr S responded to the statements below from Tenets questionnaires as follows:
I would be willing to risk a percentage of my income in order to get a good investment 
return  Disagree
I have been extremely cautious in my past financial investments  Agree I believe that it is reckless to take financial risks  Agree 
When Im faced with a financial decision, I am generally more concerned about the 
possible loss than the probable gains  Agree 
I do not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty  Agree 
I would rather put my money in a bank account than invest in shares  Agree 
Tenet concluded that Mr S met the description of a moderately cautious investor  defined 
as someone who typically preferred certain outcomes to gambles and who was less able to 
adapt to losing money. I agree with Tenets characterisation of Mr S here and it doesnt 
suggest to me that transferring was necessarily the most logical solution for him in the way 
Tenet asserts it was. Ive not seen anything to indicate Mr S had the experience, knowledge 
or appetite for risk to assess or fully appreciate what the transfer of his OPS presented. And 
I dont think he wouldve agreed to it if hed sufficiently understood it. 
Financial Viability 
An important part of assessing the viability of a DB transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed) the benefits being given up by transferring out of the DB scheme. And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including an investors 
ATR, financial circumstances, and objectives.
Tenets advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates 
when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor when 
the advice was given in this case.
The critical yields Tenets TVAS set out for Mr S indicated the transfer might not be in his 
best interests or financially viable  the required investment return was incredibly high. The 
critical yield required to match Mr S OPS at his desired retirement age (62), based on him 
not intending to take TFC, was more than 50% pa. At age 65, the critical yield required to 
match Mr S benefits was 16% if he took a full pension. So even if the arrangement he 
transferred to achieved the highest maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely that Mr S 
would receive a materially higher pension as a result of transferring. To come anywhere near 
to achieving this, he wouldve needed to take investment risk which likely exceeded his ATR. 
This compares with the discount rate of 2.3% per year for 1 year to retirement at age 62 and 
2.8% for 4 years to retirement at age 65 in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets 
in the discount rate, what Tenet recorded as Mr s ATR  Moderately cautious  and the 
term to retirement. The critical yield in this case was considerably higher than both the 
discount rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the upper-band growth rate 
used by the regulator. Tenet itself said the critical yields required to match Mr S OPS 
benefits were unrealistic, and that Mr S would likely receive a reduced pension by 
transferring.
Tenet produced a cashflow analysis which it said showed that, based on Mr S taking income 
via drawdown over the 4-year period between retiring at age 62 and receiving income from 
other pensions at age 66, his transferred fund was unlikely to be exhausted by age 87  his 
life expectancy at the time. However, I have my doubts about how meaningful this analysis 
was, given that it assumed investment growth of 5% pa. In my view this was too optimistic a 
rate of return given what Tenet determined Mr S ATR was. And without considering alternative scenarios where growth might be lower than expected, I dont think Tenet could, 
with confidence, provide Mr S with the assurances it did or ensure he had adequate 
information to make an informed decision about whether transferring, particularly in the hope 
of leaving maximum lump sum death benefits to his wife and children was realistic, or even 
worthwhile.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. My understanding of Tenets position is 
that the basis of its recommendation was the benefit transferring had for Mr S in terms of 
other objectives being met.
Flexibility and income needs
Tenet referred to Mr S need for flexibility as a reason for recommending the transfer. 
Specifically, it said that Mr S wanted to retire early, vary his retirement income according to 
his needs, and access a wider range of funds for investment. 
Its understandable that Mr S may have wanted to retire early. This was already an option 
through his OPS. But Tenet discounted this, saying the benefits available at age 62 were too 
low to support early retirement, so transferring was necessary.
The retirement income Mr S required was recorded as £19,560 pa. As Mrs S was already 
receiving £11,000 pa from a pension, this left a shortfall of £8,560 pa which Mr S needed to 
make up to retire at age 62. Tenet determined that Mr S would need a higher income 
between ages 62 and 66 before he started receiving income from his state pension and S32 
plans  together estimated to provide £11,833.28 pa  which would more than cover his 
income needs. This didnt include the additional £6,783 pa Mrs S was estimated to receive 
from her state pension less than 2 months after Mr S turned 66. 
To make up the £8,560 pa retirement income shortfall between age 62 to 66, Tenet 
concluded that taking benefits from Mr S OPS wasnt an option. If Mr S took benefits from 
the OPS at 62, Tenet said hed receive £6,700 pa or TFC of £29,400 and a reduced pension 
of £4,400 pa. Mr S didnt intend to take TFC as he had no requirement for it, so I consider 
the £6,700 pa figure to be most relevant. On its own I accept that the OPS income wouldnt 
cover the entire retirement income shortfall, but it wouldve reduced it from £8,560 pa to just 
£1,860 pa, equating to £7,440 for the four-year period between Mr S retiring at age 62 and 
turning 66.
Bearing in mind Mr S level of savings and lack of debt, it seems to me that if retiring at 62 
was essential  Im not persuaded it was  then a reasonable consideration ought to have 
been using a relatively small amount of Mr S savings to help fund this in the short-term. 
Doing so wouldve given Mr S the benefit of retiring early, while retaining the valuable 
benefits provided by his OPS, including a guaranteed index-linked pension income for life, a 
50% spouses pension and 5-year guarantee period. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Tenet considered what income mightve be 
available under Mr S GPP from age 62 and the extent to which this could help meet his 
retirement income shortfall without resorting to taking irreversible action with his largest 
pension. Unlike his OPS, the GPP only represented around 10% of Mr S retirement 
provision and didnt include any guarantees. Although Tenet said it was agreed that the GPP 
would be left where it was and reviewed after Mr S left his employer and retired, this meant 
that despite having been asked to review the GPP (along with Mr S other pension 
arrangements), Tenet failed to provide Mr S with a complete picture of the various options 
available to him when considering early retirement. Without this, Im not satisfied Tenet met its obligation to ensure Mr S was in possession of all the relevant information to make an 
informed decision about transferring for this reason. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, nothing was recorded to suggest that retiring early 
was an essential requirement (as opposed to a nice to have) or that Mr S had concrete 
plans in this respect. Tenet ought to have established why Mr S wanted to retire at age 62 
and gone on to consider whether this was required, worthwhile or where compromise was 
needed. Without this, saying Mr S wanted to retire early wasnt a fully articulated objective 
on which Tenet could reasonably conclude that transferring was in his best interests. 
In terms of having flexibility with how he took his retirement income, this isnt an objective 
Tenet gathered much information about either, despite saying it was very important to Mr S 
and something he required. The only specific example given by Tenet for when Mr S might 
need to vary his pension income was between age 62 and 66 when Tenet determined that, 
having transferred his OPS, Mr S would, for a brief period, need to draw funds to make up 
his retirement income shortfall. But this flexibility was a by-product of Tenets advice to 
transfer, as opposed to a genuine need for flexibility.
Although I accept Tenets fact find indicated Mr S wanted some flexibility with his pension, 
Im not satisfied theres enough to demonstrate transferring for this reason was something 
Tenet sufficiently explored with Mr S or that compelling reasons were provided such that it 
was reasonable to conclude sacrificing his OPS guarantees  which unlike drawdown didnt 
carry the risk of being exhausted due to longevity and/or investment performance  was in 
his best interests. Tenet also recorded that Mr S preferred financial certainty, but I cant see 
that it ever reconciled this with his flexibility objective and the lack of certainty this potentially 
brought through any discussion with Mr S. Especially not to such a degree that would 
explain why the latter was apparently a greater priority than the former.
Tenet suggested that Mr S wish to invest in a wider range of funds for potential growth, 
meant that transferring was necessary. But Mr S responses to Tenets fact find and 
questionnaires confirmed that he had limited investment experience, didnt want to access 
more funds at the expense of paying too much in annual management charges, and 
preferred to put his money in a bank over investing. 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that any attempt by Tenet, in discussion with Mr S, to reconcile 
the obvious contradictions regarding this objective or to establish what, in practice, investing 
in wide-ranging funds, really meant for Mr S and what level of growth he was seeking. And it 
didnt determine what paying too much in charges meant for Mr S, especially relative to his 
OPS. So, its not clear to me how Tenet could be confident that transferring for a diversified 
investment approach was really in Mr S best interests. If this really was important to Mr S, I 
think Tenet shouldve considered the funds available under his other pensions. Theres 
insufficient evidence the alternative options were adequately explored before being 
discounted by Tenet.
Death benefits
Regarding death benefits, Tenet recorded that Mr S wanted flexibility, leaving some of his 
pension fund as a lump sum for his wife, daughters, and grandchildren. Its understandable 
that Mr S wanted to ensure his family benefited from his pension when he died. However, 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think Tenet has provided sufficient evidence, demonstrating 
that transferring for this reason was worthwhile; that Tenet met its obligation to provide Mr S 
with enough information about the death benefits available under his existing arrangements 
(particularly his OPS); or that it had regard for the effect of replacing his OPS benefits with 
the options under a new arrangement.Tenets suitability report very briefly set out what Mr S death benefit entitlement under his 
OPS was  a spouses pension of £3,350 pa  and outlined, in general terms, the type of 
death benefits available through a PPP. The TVAS provided little more than Tenets 
suitability report did and none of the documentation Ive seen indicated what, in monetary 
terms, death benefits under the recommended PPP could  depending on certain factors  
be when Mr S died. Because of this, Im not satisfied that Tenet ensured Mr S had a 
complete picture of what his various death benefit options were or that he fully understood 
them, such that he could make an informed decision about transferring for this reason. Mr S 
asked Tenet to review all of his pensions as part of the advice process, however the 
suitability report Ive seen, showed no attempt by Tenet to establish what Mr S death benefit 
entitlement across his various pension arrangements was.
Transferring to a PPP did offer flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, lump sum, income drawdown 
or any combination of these. But Mr S was in good health, there was nothing to suggest he 
couldnt expect a normal life expectancy and therefore require money from the PPP to meet 
or supplement his income needs in retirement. So, this could mean that upon death the size 
of Mr S PPP fund remaining for his beneficiaries could be much smaller, particularly if 
investment returns were less favourable than expected.
In addition to setting out the death benefits available, Tenet needed to establish what Mr S 
specific needs in this regard were. Without doing so, it was impossible to say with any 
certainty what fund might reasonably be available to Mr S beneficiaries further down the 
line. Tenet ought to have discussed what, in real terms, Mr S position on death benefits was 
and specifically how he wanted to provide for his wife and children in this respect  for 
example, why he wanted to leave his wife a lump sum benefit as opposed to a guaranteed 
ongoing spouse pension and how much he hoped to leave to his daughters.
Mr S children werent financially dependent on him, so it seems to me that using his pension 
provision to help them financially in the future was, like the ability to alter his income, a nice 
to have as opposed to an essential requirement that warranted transferring out of his OPS.
Tenet considered the option of Mr S purchasing level term life assurance for the CETV of his 
OPS but discounted this, saying a monthly premium of £85.95 wasnt appealing to Mr S 
given that he could have personal control over this fund immediately and for his own benefit. 
Tenet offered no comment on this, seeming to just accept Mr S position and in doing so 
determined that transferring was the most appropriate course of action. This doesnt in my 
view constitute suitable advice. If providing a lump sum on his death was a genuine 
objective, I think level term life assurance could potentially have achieved this while enabling 
Mr S to maintain safeguarded benefits. The cost of this doesnt appear to be prohibitive 
given Mr S financial position.
Control and concerns about the financial stability of the OPS
Tenet recorded one of Mr S priorities as having personal control over his OPS. Its notes 
indicated that Mr S had concerns about his OPS being in deficit and that he preferred to 
break all ties with his employer and move his funds to a plan under his control.
Although this might suggest that Mr S may have already been leaning towards transferring, 
Tenet still had a responsibility to address and appropriately manage his concerns. It ought to 
have explored, interrogated and, where necessary, corrected Mr S views about his OPS, 
ensuring that any decision being made about transferring was based on a sound 
understanding of his options and the features, risks and benefits of these. I cant see that 
this happened here or that Tenet made any concerted attempt to allay Mr S misgivings 
about the scheme. The extent to which Mr S concerns were dealt with is captured in Tenets suitability report where it merely reproduced an extract from the schemes latest funding 
position report and provided no context or commentary on its contents.
Tenets recollection is that in terms of control Mr S felt he was in a better position than the 
OPS trustees to help himself and his family in the future. But again, there was no attempt to 
question or challenge Mr S about what he specifically meant when he said he
wanted his pension in his own control and what he thought might happen if he didnt transfer
to secure such control. While he might have desired control, Mr S had minimal investment 
knowledge and experience, so he was unlikely to be  let alone remain  capable of 
managing his investments himself into old age. And although Tenet said it would review     
Mr S investments regularly, this meant that by transferring, Mr S would not only be paying 
Tenet 2.022% of his OPS and PPP transfer value, but also 0.5% of his total fund value 
annually, to cover the cost of ongoing advice.
The reality was that Mr S OPS comprised of two sections, one of which his benefits were 
linked to. The funding level of the section holding Mr S benefits was 102%, while the other 
section was at 90%. So, although the overall funding level of the two sections combined 
showed a shortfall, the outlook wasnt dire and the most recent update at the time of the 
transfer said the schemes deficit was expected to be eliminated. I havent seen anything to 
show that a buyout was imminent. 
Overall, I dont think Tenet did much to alleviate Mr S concerns around the scheme. If 
appropriately managed, I dont believe Mr S fears wouldve been sufficient justification for 
him to transfer at time.
Summary
Although Mr S, a standard retail investor, may have been open to taking some risk, 
he wasnt prepared to take a significant amount. While having regard for Mr S 
circumstances, objectives, ATR and capacity for loss, it was Tenets responsibility to 
evaluate the merits and shortcomings of transferring, while considering alternatives, to 
determine the best course of action for Mr S, especially in terms of what would place him in 
the best possible position in retirement. Im not satisfied Tenet did this. And in my view, 
transferring at a time when Mr S shouldve been reducing  not increasing  the risk he was 
taking, presented a level of risk that was unnecessary.
Although Im mindful of Mr S recorded objectives and Tenets view that, together, these 
made a strong argument for transferring, Tenet was ultimately the pensions expert and Mr S 
was heavily reliant on its advice. He couldnt effectively assess whether his objectives, 
alongside other important factors, meant it was appropriate to take additional risks with his 
OPS benefits. The available evidence doesnt persuade me that it was. And I dont find Mr S 
recorded objectives significant enough incentives, to form the basis for Tenets 
recommendation that Mr S transfer. Nor do I agree that Mr S objectives were so fixed or 
compelling that transferring out of his OPS was an inevitable course of action Mr S wouldve 
always taken, irrespective of the advice Tenet gave.
I acknowledge that Tenet set out the risks associated with its advice to transfer but that 
doesnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable. Ultimately, I think tenet shouldve 
advised Mr S to remain in his OPS. As it stands, following the transfer, Mr S didnt stop 
working and retire. He continues to work for the same employer and hasnt drawn down any 
funds since transferring.Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for TenetConnect Limited to put Mr S, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for Tenets unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mr S would have most likely remained in his OPS and not drawn benefits until his normal 
retirement age of 65. So, the calculations should be based on Mr S staying in his OPS until 
age 65.
Tenet must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
Tenet may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Tenet should also pay Mr S £300 compensation. I think this fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience this matter as caused, especially bearing in mind the significance of Mr S DB 
OPS entitlement to his overall pension entitlement.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Tenet receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Tenet to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Tenet to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited 
Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
TenetConnect Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
TenetConnect Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
TenetConnect Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman