DRN-3202142
The complaint
Mr S has complained to FB Wealth Management Ltd (FBWM) about the charges and 
performance of his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), which had been established to 
receive a transfer from Mr Ss defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS).  
What happened
Mr S met with FBWM between March and October 2017 to seek advice on his pension 
arrangements and options.
In a fact find document, first completed in May 2017, Mr Ss circumstances were recorded 
as follows:
He was 54, married and had two non-dependent children of his own, and three non-
dependent stepchildren.
He was employed, earning £32,000 pa, with around £19,000 pa joint expenditure 
between him and his wife.
Hed been with the same employer for 40 years and was an active member of the 
OPS
He wished to retire by age 58, and before if possible. He was, however, happy to be 
flexible and work longer if necessary to achieve his retirement objectives. The main 
objectives were a car in two years time and a holiday home at some point.
He envisaged needing a joint income in retirement of £16,000 pa, with a desired 
additional income of £14,000 pa
Both his and his wifes state pension age would be 67.
He was in good health.
He had a medium attitude to investment risk. He had some limited knowledge of 
financial markets and had taken investment risks in the past, but didnt want to take 
higher risks with his retirement planning.
He had around £82,000 in savings and investments in his sole name, and a further 
£5,000 held jointly with his wife.
In what was described in the fact find as a second meeting with Mr S, it was recorded that 
Mr S both had, and hadnt, received an estimate of his transfer value. But on the basis of 
FBWM learning that Mr S was still, by that point, and as far as I can tell, an active member of 
his OPS, Ive assumed the former to be the case.
The fact find notes said that a guaranteed transfer value was only available if Mr S left the 
scheme, and the adviser explained to Mr S that this situation needed to be investigated 
further. The fact find said that, whilst the transfer value looked high, he would be giving up 
further benefit accrual if he opted out. It was therefore recorded that FBWM would need to 
ascertain what benefits, including those upon death, Mr S would be relinquishing and what 
the alternative defined contribution scheme (available for new members) would provide in 
the way of future benefits.
It was further recorded that Mr S was attracted to the transfer value and the flexible way in 
which death benefits could be structured for both his wife and children. 
Mr S said that he didnt intend to retire for another three years or so, and had been speaking 
to other advisers, but would like to use FBWMs services.
In  terms of  the structure of death benefits, it was suggested that Mr S consider using a 
spousal bypass to ensure that at least some of these were received by his children.
It was further recorded that all the advantages and disadvantages of transferring from the 
defined benefit scheme were discussed and that the risk would effectively be transferred 
from the scheme to Mr S. 
At the end of the fact find was a section entitled Proposed Recommendation, which said:
Transfer DB pension to suitable providerprovide client and his wife with joint income from 
all sources totalling £30k net per year use pension/ISAs/cash to fund purchase of car at £8k 
and holiday home at £100k
By this point, it was to be assumed for the purposes of the suitability report that Mr S would 
stop work at age 55 (in a few months time). On the basis of the cash flow modelling, this 
was deemed to be possible and this was what Mr S had been recorded as wanting to do. 
Cash exceeding £100,000 would be set aside to provide for capital expenditure and a further 
£90,000 cash would be set aside for five years income needs.
In the Reasons Why section, the fact find said that Mr S wished to have the flexibility to 
retire earlier than the normal retirement age and by 58 at the latest. And the transfer would 
facilitate a combined £30,000 pa income, £8,000 for a car and £100,000 to buy a holiday 
home. This was subsequently increased to £140,000 and revised cash modelling was 
undertaken accordingly.
A suitability report was issued on 21 August 2017, which recorded that the transfer value 
offered by Mr Ss OPS was £861,743. He had a further FSAVC policy with a fund value of 
£30,244.
Mr S had by this point  and presumably by the time of the proposal set out in the fact find -
opted out of his OPS, and in terms of Mr Ss deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal 
retirement age of 60, at which point FBWM said that he could expect an annual income of 
£24,953, or tax free cash of £129,776 and a reduced income of £19,466 pa.
If Mr S retired at age 55, FBWM said that he could receive £16,584 pa from his deferred 
benefits, or tax free cash of £88,177 and a residual annual income of £13,226.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that, if tax free cash was taken, the SIPP would need to grow by 7.94% pa to 
match the OPS benefits at a retirement age of 60.
On the same basis, at a retirement age of 55, the SIPP would need to grow by 17.64% pa to match the OPS benefits.
FBWM calculated that the amount needed at age 55 to buy an annuity which could produce 
benefits of equal value to those provided by the OPS was £899,035, if tax free cash was 
taken.
FBWM also provided the hurdle rate, which it said was the estimated annual investment 
return which the SIPP would need to achieve to match the annual income Mr S would 
receive from the OPS at ages 55 and 60. But unlike the OPS benefits, this assumed no 
spouses pension, no increases in payment, and no guarantee. The hurdle rates for 55 and 
60, assuming tax free cash was taken, were less than -20% pa and -3.26% pa respectively. 
FBWM recommended that Mr S transfer his deferred benefits in order for him to achieve his 
objectives, and Mr S accepted the recommendation. 
Mr Ss benefits were transferred into a SIPP in March 2018, which, following a tax free cash 
withdrawal of £198,000, was to be managed by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). His 
funds were invested in five funds, including a cash fund. The charges associated with the 
plan were 1.19% pa, with a separate adviser fee of 1.5% initially, with an ongoing annual 
adviser fee of 0.75%.
Mr Ss complaint
Mr S complained to FBWM in June 2019, saying the following in summary:
He felt that, by taking also taking a percentage charge from his lump sum withdrawal, 
FBWM had charged him excessively, especially as much of the recommendation 
had, in his view, been copied and pasted from the report for a different individual and 
pension scheme.
He also felt that he wasnt receiving value for money from the ongoing adviser charge 
of 0.75% pa, given that the investment had been taken care of by the product 
provider.
The initial investment had been left to the product provider to decide, but Mr S said 
that he thought that he had paid FBWM for this.
The chosen portfolio had been too complicated and high risk. He said that two of the 
investment elements had been medium-high risk, and another medium-low. There 
was only one low risk investment element.
One of the advantages of investing with the particular product provider was the two 
target return portfolios, but they had performed poorly. One fund in particular, which 
had been chosen to protect the value of the investments, had only made slight gains 
in two of the preceding six years, and losses in the other four (two quite substantial 
loss years, at -28% and -11.2%). This poor performance had been recognised by the 
product provider when it made changes to the target return portfolio in August 2018.
He was told that he could expect excellent financial advice in return for higher than 
average charges, but this didnt happen. And by the end of August 2018, due to the 
stress of witnessing his pension funds declining in value, with no sign of recovery, he 
instructed their liquidation.
Overall, the charges incurred and the drop in the value of his pension funds had 
amounted to a loss of around £23,000. This didnt include the charges levied by FBWM or consideration of any increase in his pension funds as he would have 
expected.
FBWMs response to the complaint
FBWM responded to Mr Ss complaint in the following terms:
The fee for advice was set following discussions with Mr S, with a reduced fee of 
1.5% then being payable.
The advice fee would be levied on the entire fund value transferred, rather than a 
post tax free cash amount. This was because it was responsible for the advice on the 
entirety of the transfer and it was a specialised area which required extensive 
research into whether a transfer would be the suitable course of action.
Mr S had a specific objective to retire by age 58, but earlier if possible. Once it had 
been established that the retirement fund could be maintained if he took a lump sum 
to buy a holiday home, the investment solution was to spread the remainder across a 
range of funds to meet the short, medium and long term objectives. This included a 
cash account for the lump sum which would fund the holiday home and five years 
income, and then four additional funds which were chosen to be consistent with Mr 
Ss attitude to risk.
The amount charged for the advice covered all meetings, research, written reports, 
administration paperwork and professional liability insurance. Due to high regulatory 
scrutiny and media focus, the charge needed to be proportionate to the liability it was 
undertaking in giving advice.
The charges were set out in the client agreement, the variation of terms and the 
suitability report. Its own ongoing charges covered the cost of regularly reviewing the 
suitability of product provider, the product itself, the funds invested in, all meetings 
and the ongoing administration of the plan.
The DFM was responsible for the choice of investments, but the fund performance 
shouldnt in any case be viewed over a short timescale. The investments, other than 
the cash, were intended to be held for the long term  so five to ten years. Short term 
fluctuations were to be expected and this was set out in the suitability report. The 
transferred sum wasnt invested for long enough to recoup the initial charges 
payable.
In a follow up meeting in November 2017, investment risk was again discussed, and 
Mr S had confirmed that he was happy to invest as previously agreed.
With regard to errors in the original report, although it did include errors such as the 
wrong scheme name, it was nevertheless personal to Mr S and his circumstances  
and was superseded by the report of August 2017.
Mr Ss attitude to risk and capacity for loss were discussed at the fact find meeting. 
Mr S completed an attitude to risk questionnaire, which scored him as a low-medium 
risk investor. The definition for this was someone who preferred a mix of cash, cash 
type assets, bonds and UK property, along with higher risk investments such as UK 
and overseas shares. The recommended funds were consistent with this description.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr S referred the matter to this service.FBWM then submitted to us a further response to Mr Ss complaint, as follows:
Following discussions about Mr Ss attitude to investment risk in May 2017, it was 
agreed that he had a low-medium outlook, but that this would be best catered for by 
using more than one risk profile.
The investment solution was that pension funds would be held across three areas  
cash for short term needs, a lower risk fund for a five to ten year investment period, 
and higher risk for a ten to 15 year period. This would use four investment funds in 
total, with the addition of a cash fund. The overall risk rating of the funds adhered to 
Mr Ss risk rating.
Further discussions were held on the investment strategy in November 2017 and 
again with the DFM in August 2018. In the interim, Mr S was provided with more 
information and clarity as to the nature of the funds and how they would operate.
In an email sent to Mr S in May 2018, it had explained that the LIBOR funds were 
designed to produce a positive return over a rolling three to five year period. Mr S 
had only been invested in the recommended portfolio for four months, during a 
particularly volatile period. This was an insufficient time period over which to view any 
fund, not just those which were designed to operate over the longer term.
Although the meeting held in August 2018 was designed to clarify the reasons as to 
why a positive return hadnt been produced, Mr S hadnt been willing to heed the 
advice given by either his financial adviser, or the DFM. He would rather be invested 
in cash and consolidate the loss, than be invested for the long term.
It wished to point out that the fund to which Mr S had then switched could have been 
accessed via his SIPP, rather than paying any initial charges on the transfer to that 
product provider.
It calculated that, had Mr S retained his funds as they were in the SIPP, the funds 
performance from September 2018 to August 2019 would have been 3.4% for the 
LIBOR+2% fund, 2% for the LIBOR+4% fund, 6.4% for the Phoenix fund, and 6.1% 
for the Balanced Bridge fund. And these figures were based upon the SIPPs 
standard annual management charge, rather than the discounted rate applicable for 
FBWM clients.
The recommended portfolio had also outperformed a benchmark suggested by the 
SIPP provider.
With specific regard to the charges incurred by the recommendation, the initial 
charge for the transfer was reduced through a variation agreement by around £4,000. 
The applicable charges were also set out in the August 2017 suitability report and the 
November 2017 portfolio illustration. Mr S signed the variation agreement in 
December 2017, thereby indicating his acceptance and agreement of the charges.
The first investigators view
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said the following:
Although he noted that Mr Ss complaint had been about the charges, the 
investments used and their performance, this service has an inquisitorial approach, 
which means that we arent restricted to looking at the issues raised by the 
complainant.As such, the investigator was of the view that the focus of his consideration should 
be the advice to transfer his defined benefits from his OPS, along with those from the 
FSAVC policy, and whether this was suitable for Mr S.
He noted the regulators view that, when considering whether a client should transfer 
defined benefits from an OPS, a firm should begin by assuming that the transfer (or 
opt out) will not be suitable. And that a transfer should only be considered if a firm 
can clearly demonstrate that it was in the clients best interests.
The investigator said that the transferred benefits represented a substantial part of 
Mr Ss likely income in retirement and there needed to be a significant chance of 
improving upon these to demonstrate that a transfer was in his best interests.
The critical yield required at the time of the advice  so the annual rate of growth 
required to just match the benefits being relinquished  was 11% to age 60.
He said the advice had been given after the regulator had updated its redress 
methodology for complaints upheld about a loss of defined benefits. Although 
businesses werent required to refer to this when giving advice, it set out a discount 
rate which was the rate of growth deemed possible in the future. Prior to that, similar 
rates of achievable future growth had been published by this service, and this had 
indicated an achievable growth rate of 6% for the six years Mr S had to retirement.
The investigator therefore considered that the opportunity for Mr S to improve on the 
OPS benefits was limited as the required rate of growth was too high and was 
incompatible with Mr Ss recorded attitude to risk.
He further noted that the illustrations produced by the receiving pension provider set 
out growth rates of 0.5%, 2.5% and 5.5% and he matched Mr Ss attitude to risk to 
the middle of those. But he noted that even the upper band growth rate projected by 
the pension provider was below the critical yield required to match the OPS benefits 
 leading him to conclude that Mr S would have needed to take a very high level of 
investment risk to achieve returns in excess of 11% pa.
As Mr S wasnt prepared to take this kind of investment risk, he should therefore 
have been advised to retain his benefits where they were.
The various charges involved in the transfer  for example those applied through the 
transfer - would also have had an impact on Mr Ss retirement plans.
The investigator noted FBWM had said that Mr S had expressed a wish to retire at 
age 58  and buy a holiday home at age 59 - if he could achieve his desired standard 
of living. It had calculated a critical yield to age 55 of over 50% pa. The investigator 
therefore extrapolated from this that the required critical yield for age 58 would have 
been somewhere between 11% and 50% - which he said was far too high for Mr Ss 
medium risk outlook.
The investigator didnt think that buying a car and a second home were good enough 
reasons to justify Mr S accessing his OPS benefits through the transfer. He said that 
suitable advice would have been to retain his OPS and FSAVC benefits and either 
working until age 60 or retiring before then, utilising a combination of: existing 
savings and future saved excess income; accessing his FSAVC benefits; taking early 
retirement from the OPS; and, if required, borrowing.
He noted that Mr S hadnt been treated as an insistent client, in that he hadnt decided against a recommendation given FBWM to not transfer. He said the transfer 
wasnt in Mr Ss best interests and he was now in a worse position than if he hadnt 
transferred. As such, it was the investigators view that the transfer had been 
unsuitable.
The investigator further said that, had FBWM recommended that Mr S not transfer 
his OPS and FSAVC benefits, he would have accepted that advice. And with 
particular regard to the latter, he noted the low charges which were applicable to the 
policy, and that given the short term to retirement and the higher charges which were 
applicable in the SIPP (with DFM), there would have been little opportunity to 
improve upon its performance. Had Mr S wished, he could have switched to better 
performing funds within the FSAVC policy.
The investigator therefore said that the complaint should be upheld and that FBWM 
should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators updated guidance 
for defined benefit transfers issued in October 2017.
Mr S agreed with the proposed outcome, but FBWM, through its representative, disagreed, 
saying the following in summary:
It noted that Mr S had complained about the charges and performance of his 
investments in the SIPP, but the investigator had expanded the scope of the 
complaint to include the suitability of the OPS and FSAVC transfers.
It appreciated that this service has an inquisitorial approach, but it said that the 
investigators view was the first time that it had become aware that he had expanded 
the scope of Mr Ss complaint.
It said it was clear that the investigator had discussed the expanded complaint with 
Mr S, but this hadnt been communicated to FBWM. It had not therefore had the 
opportunity to respond to the additional aspect of the complaint and it was now 
starting from a position of having to change the investigators mind.
It considered this to be procedurally unfair, given that a central tenet of this service 
was that both parties are placed on a level playing field  and this had not happened 
in this case. It therefore requested that the complaint be referred to a new 
investigator who would be able to review the documents it was submitting and its 
further submissions  as set out below.
Mr S had a demanding job, and he was keen to retire as soon as possible  it 
wouldnt have been desirable, or potentially even possible, for him to continue in the 
same employment until age 60. The use of a retirement age of 58 was misleading  
this was the latest that Mr S wanted to retire, and earlier if possible. The suitability 
assessment was undertaken on the basis that Mr S would retire at 55, and this is 
what he in fact did.
Mr S originally sought advice from FBWM in June 2017, having received a letter from 
his scheme as to his deferred benefits if he were to opt out of the scheme. At a 
meeting with an adviser on 9 June 2017, he said that he was going to request to opt 
out of the scheme and the adviser explained that he shouldnt do so without detailed 
advice due to the benefits he might be losing. But Mr S sought no further advice at 
that point and when he met with the adviser again in July 2017, he said that he was 
no longer a member of the OPS and was seeking advice on his deferred pension 
benefits.FBWMs representative said that Mr S was also desperate to buy a holiday home 
and a car using his pension money, which he did by using a tax free lump sum of 
£198,000 drawn down in March 2018. The cost of the former was estimated to be 
around £140,000 and, contrary to the investigators assessment that Mr S wanted to 
do this within five years, Mr S in fact wanted to do it immediately upon transfer if 
feasible.
Mr S was in a solid financial position, with £82,000 in savings, no mortgage, 
moderate outgoings of less than £20,000 pa and he also had a guaranteed income 
from his state pension to look forward to, along with his wifes state pension and final 
salary pension schemes, which together would total over £19,000 pa.
The structure and flexibility of death benefits was important to Mr S, in that he wanted 
to ensure that his children could benefit. As it turned out, he nominated that his 
children would receive 70% of any death benefit from the SIPP and his wife 30%.
Cash flow modelling was undertaken, providing comparisons on several different 
bases. These models demonstrated that Mr S could make the transfer and achieve 
his key objectives.
FBWM disagreed that the advice to transfer had been unsuitable for Mr S. Although 
the investigator had been right to note that a firm should start with a presumption of 
unsuitability when considering a defined benefit transfer, in this case it had clearly 
been demonstrated to be in Mr Ss best interests because it achieved his objectives. 
It was appropriate given his financial circumstances, and there were no viable 
alternatives to achieve his objectives.
FBWM informed Mr S that, if he transferred, hed lose valuable benefits and 
guarantees, that the SIPPs performance wasnt guaranteed, and that he might not 
be better off in the long term. The representative provided examples of the risk 
warnings. It was satisfied that Mr S understood and agreed to taking the associated 
investment risk.
The representative said that the investigator had made much of the critical yield of 
11% pa, but this took no account of tax free cash being taken. If it did, this fell to less 
than 8%, which was, according to the representative, the same, or very similar to the 
growth levels considered acceptable by the FCA to use in illustrations. It further said 
that this wasnt very different from the 6% discount rate published by this service to 
which the investigator had referred.
The suitability report had shown that the value needed to replace the income Mr S 
would receive from his OPS at age 55 was £899,000, compared to a transfer value of 
£860,000. The difference, in the context of such a large pension pot, was, in the 
representatives view, de minimis.
The use of the growth rates projected by the pension provider, as compared to the 
critical yield was inappropriate, given that the former were below the growth rates 
deemed achievable by the regulator and also took into account inflation and charges.
FBWM had made it clear in the suitability report that it may not be possible to match 
the guaranteed payments from the scheme and that there were risks with doing so. It 
emphasised that the fund required to provide benefits of an equal value to those 
under Mr Ss defined benefit scheme was significantly higher than the transfer value 
being offered, and that the transfer in that regard didnt represent good value. This, 
the representative said, was evidence of FBWM highlighting the risks and potential disadvantages of the transfer to Mr S.
The cash flow projections demonstrated that, in each case where Mr S transferred 
out (predicated on different holiday home purchase prices) his funds would last 
beyond his lifetime.
If Mr S had remained in the defined benefit scheme, he wouldnt have been able to 
retire early  and given that he wouldnt have wanted, or been able, to continue in his 
current employment, he would have needed to find alternative employment within the 
same company, or elsewhere.
He also wouldnt have been able to fulfil his dream of buying a holiday home, and 
wouldnt have been able to achieve his death benefit objective without complex trust 
arrangements. 
There would also have been a delay in retiring - to age 58  a significant income 
shortfall for almost ten years, and a delay in buying a holiday home. But Mr S was 
nevertheless reminded that the benefits under the defined benefit scheme were 
guaranteed for both him and his wife in the event of his death.
Alternatives such as buying an annuity were considered, but discounted on the basis 
that this wouldnt have achieved his objectives.
The representative also accepted that Mr S wasnt an insistent or execution only 
client as defined by the regulator, but it was the representatives view that if FBWM 
had told Mr S that the transfer was unsuitable, he would still have proceeded. Had he 
not transferred, he would still be working and wouldnt have bought his holiday home. 
On the basis that Mr S hadnt complained about suitability, it was proposed that he 
be asked what he would have done, had he been advised not to transfer.
The investigator referred the response to Mr S for his comments, to which Mr S replied as 
follows:
Mr S said that he couldnt be sure what he would have done in terms of transferring, 
had FBWM advised him to. He maintained, however, that FBWM had done nothing to 
discourage him from transferring, and actively supported his thoughts about leaving 
the scheme.
Mr S further said that FBWM had made it clear to him that transferring was the right 
thing to do and that he could expect growth of close to £30,000 pa, even taking into 
account the initial lump sum withdrawal. As his take home pay was around the same 
amount, it seemed that the transfer was the obvious route  the prospect of retiring 
and maintaining the same standard of living was what prompted him to retire at age 
55.
The investigator also responded to the comments made by FBWMs representative as to 
what it considered to be the issues of procedural unfairness. He said that it had been made 
aware of the complaint about suitability in his initial view and that it had since had over eight 
weeks in which to respond on that matter. He noted that it had in any case responded to the 
suitability aspect, but offered a further opportunity to add anything it deemed relevant to 
FBWMs representative.
No further submissions were received from FBWMs representative, and so the investigator 
responded to the points raised in replying to his initial view, as follows:He noted that the representative had sought to provide information about Mr S and 
his circumstances which might not have been evident from the documentation 
already provided. However, he considered that he should base his assessment on 
what was known, and documented - especially the fact find  at the time of the 
advice.
He acknowledged the point about Mr S seeking to retire at age 55, but he queried as 
to why there were various documents stating that Mr S wished to retire at age 58. He 
further said that the available evidence from the time didnt support the position that 
Mr S had said that it wasnt desirable, or possible, for him to do the same job until 
age 60.
The investigator quoted from the fact find as follows: "if affordable the client would 
retire before 58, however, he is happy to be flexible and work longer if this allows him 
to achieve his retirement objective or if pension values (assuming switch from DB) 
are low."
He also quoted the following from the fact find: He does not intend on retiring for 
another 3 years or so.
The investigator also noted that, according to the fact find, when Mr S met with 
FBWM, he was still a member of his OPS.
He also thought that what Mr S did after the transfer was less relevant, as he was 
considering the advice given to him before he did so.
As such, he pointed to the record of Mr S possibly wanting to spend £100,000 on a 
holiday home in the next five years, rather than it being an immediate necessity.
He said that Mr Ss OPS benefits were his only source of pension income and so it 
would have been very important to him. Both he and his wife would need to wait a 
number of years before they could draw their state pensions.
In answer to the question in the fact find as to whether Mr S envisaged taking any 
lump sums for his pension in the next 12 months, Mr S had answered no, but he 
was thinking about buying a car in two years time and possibly a holiday at some 
point (in the next five years).
The investigator therefore wasnt satisfied that raising £100,000 to buy a holiday 
home was a priority for Mr S at the time. And there was no need for him to make an 
irreversible decision at that point.
He also considered that the points made about the risk warnings given and Mr S 
being prepared to take investment risks contradicted each other. Despite the risks 
and loss of guarantees, FBWM nevertheless advised him to transfer, but the fact find 
had recorded that Mr S wanted some of his retirement income to be guaranteed. It 
also recorded that he had a low capacity for loss as this was his only retirement 
provision. Further, his attitude to transfer risk was low as he didnt want to take risks 
with his retirement - hed experienced losses on investments before.
With regard to the critical yield required of 8% to age 60, the investigator said that 
this was still significantly higher than a discount rate of 6%. For retirement at age 55, 
taking tax free cash, this was higher still at 18%. As Mr S had no more than a 
medium attitude to risk, it was reasonable for him to accept the risk associated with 
the assumed mid band growth rate figure of 2.5%. As Mr S was only six years away 
from a retirement age of 60, the higher required critical yield represented too high a 
risk for him to take.As the transfer, in FBWMs own words, didnt represent good value, it shouldnt have 
been recommended to Mr S. And there was no evidence of Mr S being an insistent 
customer.
An assumed growth rate of 5% was used in the cash flow modelling, but this was far 
below the critical yield and also below the discount rate used by this service. So the 
growth rate used would have provided Mr S with a pension far below that which 
would have been provided by his OPS.
The investigator didnt think that the objectives mentioned by FBWMs representative 
in its response to his view matched those recorded in the fact find  although he did 
note that it had mentioned a spousal bypass for payment of his pension death 
benefits. This, the investigator, said, would have been suitable advice.
He also considered that, despite the representative having said that there were no 
viable alternatives for Mr S to achieve his objectives, hed set some of these out in 
his view on the matter.
The investigator also wasnt persuaded that the available evidence supported the 
position that Mr S would have proceeded with the transfer against FBWMs advice 
not to.
FBWMs representative responded to reiterate its concerns about procedural fairness in our 
consideration of the matter. It didnt consider that FBWM had been dealt with fairly, saying 
that a fair hearing could take place if the decision is made before one of the parties is aware 
of the scope of the dispute.
It reiterated its request that the matter be referred to a new investigator, as it felt that the 
decision to reach conclusions on the matter before hearing both parties submissions on the 
actual complaint now being considered had prejudiced the handling of the complaint.
It also rejected the further comments made by the investigator relating to suitability, as 
follows:
It said it was nonsensical to suggest that factual information about Mr Ss 
circumstances after the fact find was completed was irrelevant.
The investigator had interpreted the fact find in such a way that it was contrary to the 
accepted factual position that Mr S had already become a deferred member of the 
OPS by the time he approached FBWM for advice.
It said that the investigator had also misunderstood the principles of what constituted 
suitable advice within the meaning of COBS 9 and 19. It considered the investigators 
position to be that, as FBWM had recognised that any money purchase arrangement 
would need to perform very well to match the OPS benefits, this automatically 
rendered a recommendation to transfer unsuitable  but this, it said, was incorrect.
In terms of the investigators comments on cash modelling, it said it couldnt 
understand the point being made, in that the growth forecast for the modelling was 
too low, and that the cash flow forecast was a conservative estimate of the amount of 
money which would be available to Mr S at retirement. This, it said, appeared to 
contradict the investigators views expressed elsewhere.
It also rejected the investigators suggestion that a financial adviser could or should 
have provided advice in relation to a spousal bypass trust (which was complex and 
would have required legal input). This had been suggested by the investigator as being suitable for Mr S to achieve his aim of retiring as soon as he was able  ideally 
by age 55  and buying a holiday home.
It didnt understand the point made by the investigator about the alternatives for Mr S 
to achieve his objectives. It had been referring in its response letter to the options 
FBWM had set out as to how Mr S might achieve his objectives without transferring.
The complaint was then referred to a different investigator to consider the matter, and both 
parties were duly informed.
FBWMs representative submitted further comments for the new investigators attention, 
which it summarised as follows:
This service was entitled to expand the complaint to consider the suitability of the 
transfer advice, but it nevertheless wished to note that Mr S had originally 
complained about charges and plan performance.
Mr S had been determined to transfer his OPS benefits and had opted out of the 
scheme prior to seeking formal advice from FBWM.
After years of working in a physically demanding job, Mr S was desperate to retire 
early and buy a holiday home. He wouldnt have been able to make this lifestyle 
change, had he retired early from the OPS.
Following a previous divorce, Mr S wanted to ensure that his wife wouldnt be the 
sole beneficiary of any pension proceeds in the event of his death.
There was little monetary difference between the cash transfer value and the amount 
required to buy an annuity to replace the OPS benefits.
Mr and Mrs S were in a solid financial position, with no mortgage and low outgoings, 
and a substantial amount of savings and guaranteed income from other pensions. 
Cash modelling had demonstrated that transferring out of the OPS was entirely 
affordable for Mr S.
The representative also added further detail to its understanding of the background to the 
complaint, as follows:
At a pre-advice informal meeting with FBWM on 30 March 2017, Mr S said that he 
was a member of his OPS, but had been investigating opting out as he wished to be 
able to transfer out of the scheme and bring the pension benefits under his control. 
He had gone as far as obtaining a deferred benefit statement from his OPS.
FBWM advised Mr S at the meeting that if he wished to obtain formal advice, hed 
need to engage its services to undertake a full review  but that he should be aware 
that it would be highly unlikely that FBWM would advise him to opt out as he would 
lose valuable benefits - and it wouldnt be sensible for him to do this.
At a further meeting on 5 July 2017, Mr S informed FBWM that he had opted out of 
his OPS on 9 June 2017  of his own accord  and had obtained a deferred benefit 
statement and transfer value from the scheme.
It was the representatives position that Mr S had therefore acted contrary to the 
informal guidance given by FBWM and signalled his determination to access his 
pension benefits in the near future.According to the adviser notes, Mr S wished to access his pension benefits flexibly 
under the pension freedoms introduced in 2015.
He wanted to retire at the latest by age 58, but preferably earlier if the figures showed 
this was possible and affordable.
He wished to buy a holiday home at his selected retirement date, rather than waiting 
until the scheme retirement date.
FBWM subsequently completed a fact find for Mr S, which was most recently 
updated on 5 October 2017. This demonstrated that guaranteed pensions from other 
sources such as state pensions would almost entirely cover his outgoings.
The TVAS report indicated that a critical yield of 7.94% was required to match the 
OPS benefits at age 60. The critical yield at age 55  Mr Ss preferred retirement age 
 was 17.64%, but this was skewed due to Mr Ss 55th birthday being only four 
months away and the TVAS having annualised the growth rate. The actual gap 
between the transfer value of the OPS benefits and the cost of buying an equivalent 
annuity at age 55 was 4%.
The suitability report of 21 August 2017 recommended the transfer of his OPS 
benefits, in order to meet Mr Ss objectives of: retiring early and changing his 
lifestyle; allowing flexibility of income; providing a degree of certainty over death 
benefits; and clarifying the standard of living which could be achieved in retirement.
In terms of affordability, numerous discussions were held to determine at what age 
Mr S wished to retire, with cash flow modelling undertaken to compare remaining in 
the scheme and retiring at age 58 against retiring at age 55 and either taking an 
annuity or using flexi drawdown to access his benefits. The drawdown option offered 
Mr S the flexibility he required in withdrawing income and lump sums if needed.
In terms of capacity for loss, Mr S had a cash buffer in premium bonds and other 
cash savings for immediate access. Mr S was also made aware of the importance of 
maintaining a cash buffer for the first five years income requirements to ensure there 
were ample funds for withdrawal.
The transfer allowed Mr S a flexibility of income which wasnt available through the 
scheme benefits. He could also access his benefits tax efficiently as and when he 
needed it, which wouldnt have been possible with fixed scheme benefits and a state 
pension. This would also mitigate a future inheritance tax liability by not withdrawing 
unneeded income in later years.
Mr S also wanted to provide for his children (from his first marriage) through death 
benefits, which would have been facilitated by removing the funds from the OPS. 
Extensive discussions were held with Mr S about the advantages and disadvantages 
of a spouse bypass trust or the use of simple nomination.
Mr S was a low/medium risk investor, although he had prior investment experience. 
The solution to this was to engage a personal investment manager from the product 
provider to work with him to ensure that his funds were invested appropriately. 
The second investigators view
The new investigator issued her view on the matter as follows:She said that she largely agreed with the opinion set out by the first investigator.
However, she noted that the matter of the death benefits available to Mr S from either 
the OPS or the SIPP hadnt been covered by the first investigator. She didnt think 
that this changed the outcome, but explained why.
She noted the reasoning set out by FBWM in terms of Mr S wanting not wanting all of 
his death benefits to be passed to Mrs S, and that a spousal bypass was 
recommended and accepted by Mr S. But she didnt think that this was a sufficient 
justification for the high risk transfer of Mr Ss OPS benefits.
In support of that position, the investigator said that there were no concerns about Mr 
Ss health or about him reaching retirement. He was in fact in good health and had a 
normal life expectancy. It had also been recorded in the fact find that Mr S didnt 
intend to leave a significant amount of his pension unused upon death.
And so the investigator also concluded that the complaint should be upheld, and 
recommended the same manner of calculating whether redress was due to Mr S.
FBWMs representative rejected this further opinion, however, requesting a referral to an 
ombudsman, but also saying the following:
The reason for it asking for a new investigator to be assigned the case was that it felt 
the previous investigator had changed the scope of the complaint without first 
providing FBWM with an opportunity to respond. But the new investigators opinion 
simply echoed that of the first.
However, it wished to query why it was thought that Mr S had been disadvantaged by 
the transfer, given that he couldnt have retired from the scheme early and enjoyed 
the lifestyle he now had. Given that Mr S hadnt complained about the suitability of 
the transfer, it sought his evidence as to why he felt hed been disadvantaged. 
It also queried as to how, without transferring, Mr S could have fulfilled his objective 
of retiring early, freeing up cash and buying a holiday home at age 55.
The investigator confirmed to both parties that the matter would be referred to an 
ombudsman, but also responded to the representatives questions as follows:
She said that, although it may have been desirable for Mr S to buy a holiday home 
and retire at age 55, she didnt think they were important priorities, such that they 
would outweigh the loss of valuable guaranteed benefits in the OPS. 
The investigator also said that Mr S may have had other options available to him, as 
had been set out by the previous investigator, but that it wasnt for this service to say 
what Mr S should have done instead. She considered that Mr Ss objectives werent 
an urgent requirement, and that FBWM should have recognised this and advised 
against the transfer.
FBWMs representative submitted the further following comments for the attention of the 
reviewing ombudsman:
The new investigator hadnt considered the complaint issues de novo, but had 
instead largely relied upon the previous investigators findings. Its original complaint 
therefore subsists and it said there was no point in the complaint being referred to a 
new investigator. It referred to FBWMs right to escalate that particular complaint further if necessary.
It didnt consider that the findings of both investigators correctly reflected the critical 
yield percentages required to match the scheme benefits, or correctly applied the 
rules in COBS 19.1 - and also appeared to contradict the other evidence as to what 
Mr S would have done if he had been advised not to transfer.
With regard to the first of these  the critical yield assessment  it said that the critical 
yield to match the scheme benefits at age 60, after taking tax free cash, was 7.94%. 
The critical yield to age 55 was 17.64%, but was skewed due to Mr Ss proximity to 
his 55th birthday. The actual difference between the transfer value of £860,000 and 
the amount required to purchase the comparable annuity - £899,000 - was 4%.
Although some advisory firms may have taken advantage of clients, FBWM couldnt 
have been further from this. It was confronted with a customer who, contrary to its 
initial informal advice, opted out of his OPS, and who was desperate to retire early 
after many years of a physically demanding job and buy a holiday home to enjoy, 
whilst his health lasted.
A huge amount of work was undertaken to determine what guaranteed income Mr 
and Mrs S would have in retirement, and FBWM compared the financial implications 
of transferring, pointing out the de minimis financial disadvantage  but 
nevertheless concluded that, bearing in mind Mr Ss objectives, there was no other 
way of achieving them. And so the transfer was in his best interests.
FBWM was aware of the presumption of unsuitability when considering defined 
benefit transfers, but it urged Mr S to not opt out of the scheme and explained that a 
transfer is rarely suitable. But when considering the specific facts of Mr Ss situation, 
it concluded that the presumption of unsuitability could be overturned because it was 
the only way to achieve his objectives.
If the investigators were correct, then FBWM ought to have advised Mr S not to 
transfer. In that scenario he would have needed to work for a further five years until 
age 60 before retiring and buying a holiday home. FBWM doesnt consider that this 
would have been in Mr Ss best interests. Had it in fact recommended this, Mr S 
might well have been able to complain about unsuitable advice to not transfer.
In terms of what Mr S would have done had he been advised to not transfer, the 
representative said that this service must follow the law, and if it departs from it we 
must explain why. We must, therefore, consider issues of causation as a court would, 
and if not, explain why.
It considered that Mr Ss position that he wouldnt have transferred but for FBWMs 
advice had been formed with the benefit of hindsight. It requested copies of all 
correspondence between this service and Mr S, along with transcripts or recordings 
of phone calls. 
It considered that there was evidence which suggested that Mr S wouldnt have acted 
differently, as follows: that he acted contrary to FBWMs informal advice in opting out 
of his OPS, thereby indicating that hed already decided to transfer; Mr S bought a 
holiday home as soon as hed transferred  he continually chased the transfer 
money, demonstrating his desperation to proceed quickly; and that Mr S didnt 
complain about the advice to transfer, instead focussing upon the performance issue 
 as he knew it had enabled him to achieve his goals.It was FBWMs view that Mr S would not be so readily agreeing with the 
investigators conclusion that he wouldnt have transferred if he had to sell his holiday 
home and return to work to be returned to the position he would otherwise have been 
in.
Subject to its review of the correspondence between this service and Mr S, it was the 
opinion of FBWMs representatives that the only way in which Mr Ss evidence on this point 
could be adequately tested was through an oral hearing  and it reserved the right to request 
one on FBWMs behalf.
In closing, the representative said that the transfer was suitable as it was in Mr Ss best 
interests, achieving his goals which he could not otherwise fulfil for a further five years 
without putting him at any substantive financial disadvantage. Mr S was precisely the sort 
of customer for whom the pension freedoms were devised and it was unfair and 
unreasonable for this service to criticise FBWM for its advice, the representative said.
The investigator complied with the request for correspondence and call recordings. And the 
matter was duly referred to me for review.
The request for a hearing
Mindful of what the representative had said about an oral hearing, at my request, the 
investigator explained to the representative that the usual process would be that I would 
review the complaint and either issue a final decision if I agreed with the conclusions 
reached to date, or a provisional decision if I disagreed. As such, she enquired of FBWMs 
representative as to whether it was in fact requesting an oral hearing.
In response, FBWMs representative submitted further points for my consideration:
It remained of the view that, irrespective of any findings on suitability, FBWM had a 
causation defence, in that Mr S would in any case have transferred out of his OPS.
The available evidence, as supplied by this service, didnt support the investigators 
conclusion that Mr S would have acted differently. In Mr Ss response to the first 
investigators view, he focussed on the shock he felt at first realising that it was the 
pension provider who would be managing his investments rather than saying that he 
wouldnt have transferred. His point wasnt therefore that he wouldnt have 
transferred, but that he should have challenged the charges and/or the provider of his 
SIPP.
The representative further said that Mr S had simply accepted the first investigators 
view. But this couldnt be considered proper evidence that Mr S wouldnt have 
transferred if not advised to.
Its view was that this service couldnt reasonably make inferences about Mr Ss likely 
actions when it had never asked him, especially when his original complaint was 
about performance and charges. And this situation couldnt now be remedied by 
asking Mr S directly, given that his evidence would be influenced by his 
understanding of what he needs to say to satisfy the requirement.
The representative said that it would, however, be prepared to consider an oral 
hearing as a method of testing Mr Ss oral evidence against the extrinsic evidence, 
which it considered was necessary to fairly decide the case.
That extrinsic evidence included: Mr S opting out of his OPS contrary to FBWMs informal suggestion; that he bought a holiday home so quickly after transferring his 
pension; and that additional evidence has revealed that he had separated from his 
wife since the transfer and had drawn on his pension funds to buy her a property.
The latter point was particularly relevant to the issue of death benefits. When Mr S 
separated from his wife, he would have needed to transfer his pension benefits to 
ensure that his wife wasnt a beneficiary on his death. And he would also have 
needed to transfer to draw upon his pension funds for the property purchase.
It also noted that Mr S hadnt informed FBWM that he intended to rent the holiday 
home to obtain an additional income. This was relevant income which should have 
been taken into account when comparing the value of his defined benefit pension 
against the value if he transferred. And the de minimis disparity between the 
defined benefit transfer value and the amount required to provide the same annuity 
would likely be erased by any anticipated rental income for the rest of his life.
As no clear answer had been provided as to whether an oral hearing was in fact being 
requested by FBWMs representative, at my request the investigator enquired once again on 
this point.
The representative confirmed that it was seeking an oral hearing, referring to its previous 
comments on causation and the matter of whether Mr S would still have transferred, had he 
been advised not to, as the basis for its hearing request.
It said that there were also factual issues relating to what Mr S was told by FBWM when he 
first approached it for advice and what he would have done with his defined benefit pension 
had he not transferred, given that he had since separated from his wife. It said that FBWM 
needed to be given the opportunity to hear Mr Ss evidence at an oral hearing for the case to 
be disposed of fairly.
My response to the hearing request
I considered what FBWMs representative had said, but didnt think, on the basis of the 
information I had, that a hearing was necessary to fairly decide the case.  I said that there 
was sufficient information on the files, but that where I considered further clarification was 
needed from either party, or both, I would let the parties know.
I also noted that the representative had said that it would be prepared to consider a hearing 
as a method of testing Mr Ss oral evidence, which I thought implied it would be guided by 
my own view on the matter. I also clarified that a hearing wouldnt provide a forum for either 
party to test the others evidence and that any questions would be asked by the deciding 
ombudsman who would be chairing the hearing.
In response, FBWMs representative has said that, whilst it disagreed that an oral hearing 
wasnt necessary, it accepted that I would proceed to consider the case on the basis of the 
documentation alone. It did, however, reiterate what it considered to be the procedural 
failings on the case to date, and requested that I therefore issue a provisional decision in the 
first instance.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2021, in which I set out my reasons for 
partially upholding the complaint. My findings are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my conclusions are 
different to those set out as a result of our investigation to date, for reasons which Ill set out below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time FBWM advised Mr S were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like FBWM, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, FBWM 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ss 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of FBWMs advice to Mr S in the context of the above 
requirements.
Mr Ss objectives and FBWMs rationale for transferring
As has previously been noted, although its FBWMs position that Mr S was already 
committed to the transfer before he met with it, Mr S nevertheless met with its adviser to 
discuss his options, and Mr S wasnt categorised as an insistent or execution only client. And 
so, regardless of Mr Ss actual decision making upon receiving a recommendation, FBWM 
could be confident that he would be acting upon, or at least taking into account, its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, FBWM undertook its fact finding for Mr S and then set out 
its assessment of his circumstances and objectives. 
And my first observation here would be that theres a clear difference of opinion in terms of 
the manner in which FBWMs representative has described Mr Ss objectives and those set 
out by the investigators views on the matter. 
The former has repeatedly said that Mr S was desperate to retire at age 55, and that 
FBWM had been confronted with an individual who wanted to buy a holiday home which he 
could enjoy while his health lasted. But its unclear as to how, on the basis of the 
contemporaneous records, such conclusions could reasonably be drawn. This position 
simply isnt borne out by the records made at the time, not least the comments made by 
FBWMs own adviser that Mr S didnt intend on retiring for another three years or so, that 
he envisaged buying a car in two years time and a holiday home in the next five years.
Although Mr S may have wanted to retire as soon as possible, nothing about these records 
suggest to me that Mr S was desperate to retire. Furthermore, the description of FBWM 
being confronted by Mr S in such a desperate situation might also imply, or perhaps be 
designed to imply, some reluctance on FBWMs part to advise Mr S on the transfer. If it was, 
for clarity, Ive sensed no such reluctance in FBWMs willingness to advise Mr S, as also 
supported by it not describing Mr S as an insistent or execution only client.The further comment about Mr S wanting to buy a holiday home to enjoy while his health 
lasted might also imply some kind of urgency related to medical issues  but aside from one 
issue which appears to have been successfully controlled, Mr S was recorded as being in 
good health.
And so Im confident that a fair and reasonable interpretation of the facts recorded at the 
time was that Mr S would have retired as soon as was possible, a situation perhaps not 
uncommon in the wider population, if his objectives of a £30,000 joint income with his wife 
and other capital expenditure could be met. But theres nothing which might suggest that 
there was such a degree of urgency about this that it would supersede or colour other 
considerations associated with relinquishing guaranteed benefits.
And as noted by both FBWMs representative and the investigators, the COBS rules said 
that the starting assumption for an assessment of Mr Ss options was that a transfer of 
defined benefits would be unsuitable, unless it could be demonstrated that it was in his best 
interests in order to meet specific objectives. 
Ive already discounted the notion of Mr S being desperate to retire as being an objective 
which might justify the transfer in and of itself. The evidence from the time of the advice 
doesnt support that position. Ive also noted mention by FBWMs representative that the 
transfer was entirely affordable. But this clearly isnt the test. For the transfer to be deemed 
in the individuals interest, it must create a tangible benefit. 
Ill therefore explore further below the other objectives to determine whether they were 
sufficiently compelling reasons for Mr S to transfer his defined benefits. Before I do, 
however, Ill first assess the case, in monetary terms, for the transfer of Mr Ss defined 
benefits. If, for example, the OPS benefits could be bettered through the transfer, this might 
contribute (although not be a reason in and of itself, as per COBS 19.1.7B) towards the 
suitability of a transfer.  
The required growth to match the scheme benefits
As Ive said above, a transfer of defined benefits being affordable isnt a justification to 
proceed. The benefits, beyond the potential of just meeting expenditure requirements from 
non-guaranteed income, must outweigh the disadvantages of relinquishing the guaranteed 
benefits. But Ive nevertheless considered whether a transfer was in Mr Ss best interests 
from a financial perspective.
Mr S had said that he intended to retire in another three years or so, hence the age of 58 
used in the first example within the section of the suitability report entitled Retirement 
Options.
I think it was entirely reasonable for FBWM to then assess the prospect of retiring at age 55 
 Ive discounted any desperate need for Mr S to retire at age 55 for the reasons given 
above, but have also nevertheless acknowledged that retirement as early as possible would 
be an understandable objective.
The TVAS comparison demonstrated that, for retirement at both 60 and 55 (there was no 
calculation to age 58), the critical yields required to simply match the scheme benefits were 
7.94% and 17.64% respectively. Both of these were higher than the discount rate deemed 
achievable for the number of years to retirement at both ages. 
I do note, with particular respect to the discount rate, that the suitability report was issued 
before the FCAs revised guidance, which was released in October 2017, but as commented 
by the investigator, the discount rate published by this service before then would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible 
at the time.
For retirement at age 60, this discount rate was 3.1% pa. And at age 55, this was 2.3%, 
although given that Mr S would turn 55 in a few months time, the actual time to achieve this 
annual growth rate would be significantly reduced. 
Even it could be said that the same would be true of the critical yield, and that the TVAS had 
skewed figures by factoring in a full year until Mr S reached 55, that figure of 17.64% is still a 
higher full year starting point than the discount rate deemed achievable over that same 
year. And this is reflected in the higher cost of replacing the scheme benefits than was being 
provided by the transfer. FWBMs representative has described this as being de minimis in 
the context of the size of the transfer. But I have two concerns here.
The first is that, as pointed out by the first investigator, FBWM had described the greater 
cost of replacing the OPS benefits as being significant, and that the transfer in that sense 
represented poor value. Clearly, from the perspective of defending the position here, FBWM 
and its representative cant have it both ways. The difference was either de minimis, or 
significant. 
My further concern is the basis upon which the cost of replacing the scheme benefits had in 
any case been calculated. My understanding is that the scheme benefits would have 
included yearly escalation, a 50% spouses benefit and a five year guarantee in payment. 
Theres no indication or mention that this has been factored into the cost of replacing those 
benefits  and if it hadnt, then the actual cost of replacing the scheme benefits would be 
significantly higher - but Im willing to be corrected on that point if FBWM or its representative 
can demonstrate otherwise.
It was therefore the case that, at both ages 55 and 60, the transfer of benefits was highly 
unlikely to achieve the benefits, in financial terms, which would be paid from the scheme. 
And it follows that this would have been the case for retirement at any point between those 
two ages  for example, at 58.
The above figures are in my view a compelling demonstration of what would be relinquished, 
in monetary terms, by transferring. Its fair to say that FBWM did provide warnings on the 
guarantees which would be given up, and I agree that Mr S is likely to have understood 
those warnings. But as FBWM will be aware, risk warnings wouldnt render unsuitable advice 
suitable. FBWM needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that 
relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action 
for Mr S.
Id also agree that an assessment of a transfers suitability shouldnt be restricted to 
monetary considerations. But the prospect of an alternative arrangement not matching the 
scheme benefits in monetary terms on the basis of reasonable assumptions does then make 
it all the more important that the other reasons for transferring are sufficiently compelling. 
Mr Ss options for retirement 
Before I address this, Ill set out my thoughts on the possibility that early retirement at 55, in 
any circumstances, might not have been suitable for Mr S if, for example, he was taking 
unnecessary risk by relinquishing valuable guaranteed benefits, or was crystallising an 
income through the scheme which would be too low to support him for the rest of his life. 
To expand on this, a firm of professional advisers has responsibilities beyond simple wish 
fulfilment. If early retirement might leave an individual in financial jeopardy in later life, the expectations around early retirement options should be effectively managed, and if it wasnt 
in an individuals best interest to retire at that age, they should have been advised against it.
In this instance, there was no absolute need for Mr S to retire at age 55. Mr S had signalled 
that he could work beyond this and the age of 58 repeatedly appears as the age at which Mr 
S thought he might retire  at which stage he would buy a car, and a few years later, a 
holiday home. Therefore, if any of the options for retirement at age 55 would imperil his 
financial future, this should have been made clear to him.
It was nevertheless FBWMs position that Mr S could feasibly retire at age 55 and that, on 
this basis, his income would last him for the rest of his life. In making this calculation, I note 
that FBWM took into account various sources of guaranteed income upon which Mr  and 
Mrs  S could rely. Certainly the state pension aspect of this wouldnt have been available 
until age 67 for them both  some 12 years hence. But I accept that, on the basis of the cash 
flow modelling undertaken, the prospect of retiring at 55, and beginning flexi access 
drawdown, was, in FBWMs words, entirely feasible.
However, as with the description of the transfer being entirely affordable, this isnt enough 
to demonstrate suitability. The benefits of transferring must produce a better overall outcome 
so as to be in the individuals best interests. 
And I dont think I need to labour this point for any party here, but the obvious consequence 
of Mr S transferring was that hed be relinquishing benefits which were guaranteed for life. 
Hed be entering an arrangement where all the investment risk was borne by him. FBWM 
confirmed that it had told Mr S this in the fact find record.
So to produce that better overall outcome for Mr S, the benefits of retiring at 55, including the 
tax free cash towards immediate holiday home and car purchase, and then the desired 
income, must have outweighed the benefits of taking guaranteed benefits in the scheme 
either at that point, or later on.
Mr S was described as being a medium risk investor, and in more recent correspondence, 
as being at the lower end of a medium risk assessment. He was also seeking some 
guarantees with his retirement income and, although hed taken investment risks before, 
didnt want to take higher risks with his retirement planning.
This would therefore intuitively cast doubt on the suitability of a plan which might require 
transfer of his guaranteed benefits and reinvestment of his pension funds towards the goal of 
achieving a rate which was: higher than the rate deemed achievable for a medium risk 
investor  5% pa according to the regulators bands of achievable growth; higher than the 
discount rate published by this service as achievable for the term to retirement; and also 
higher than the mid band growth rate of the receiving pension plan. 
The required critical yield to just match the scheme benefits at age 60 was 7.94% - and so 
was comfortably higher than all of these. And so to just match the scheme benefits, this 
would imply the need to take investment risk which was higher than that to which Mr S was 
either prepared, or in a position, to be exposed.
Ive then thought carefully about the argument for flexibility in terms of how Mr S could take 
his income from a flexi drawdown plan, as opposed to the fixed (albeit escalating) income 
hed receive from the scheme. But Im not convinced that Mr S would have needed that 
degree of flexibility in taking his income, such that it would have justified relinquishing 
guaranteed benefits. The only assurance he needed was that the income would cover his 
expenditure, and any excess could be reinvested as he saw fit. As Mr Ss income from the scheme at age 60 was predicted to be £19,466 pa, with a tax free lump sum of £129,776, 
this would have been sufficient for his needs.
And so, notwithstanding other key objectives, such as flexibility in structuring death benefits, 
which I address further below, I dont think there was a financially robust justification in 
advising Mr S to transfer his defined benefits at age 55. He would, for example, have been 
able to retire at age 60 with enough income and tax free lump sum to meet his planned 
expenditure  and this would have been without needing to take any investment risk.
Im nevertheless mindful that Mr S wanted to retire by age 58 at the latest. But I think the 
same considerations and conclusions would have applied to retirement at age 58. The fact 
find recorded Mr Ss income needs as being around £16,000. I think its more likely than not 
that the income produced by the scheme benefits at age 58 would have either exceeded 
this, or been around that mark. Its likely in my view that the guarantees attached to the 
scheme benefits at age 58, which would have met Mr Ss requirements, would have 
outweighed any justification for transferring in terms of flexibility of income.
As such, from a financial perspective, I think a consideration of the suitability of transferring 
guaranteed benefits for the sake of non-guaranteed income at age 55 could end there. The 
argument for the alternative of retirement at age 58, with the scheme benefits, and on the 
basis of what had been recorded in the fact find about Mr S being prepared to work until that 
point, is compelling.
But even if I were to be persuaded that Mr S was desperate to retire immediately, Ive then 
thought about the prospect of retiring at age 55, as was recommended here, and the 
suitability of doing so either through transferring with flexi drawdown, or with the scheme 
benefits. And whether, by doing either, this would have outweighed the benefits of retiring 
through the guaranteed scheme a few years later at age 58.
As this was effectively immediate retirement, suitability from a purely financial perspective 
could broadly be determined by comparing the transfer value with the cost of replacing those 
benefits. And for the reasons given, even if FBWMs representative considers the difference 
to be de minimis, this doesnt favour the transfer option.
And so this course of action could only have been deemed suitable if it satisfied his 
objectives, justified relinquishing the guaranteed scheme benefits, and didnt present too 
high an investment risk for Mr S.
Ive firstly considered the option of retirement at age 55 through the scheme, and its fair to 
say that the reduced income from the scheme at age 55, after taking an £88,177 tax free 
lump sum, wouldnt have met Mr Ss recorded income requirement to cover expenditure. 
Theres also an alternative here which I dont think was explored by FBWM  that of making 
up the lower income through either part time employment with Mr Ss then employer, or with 
an alternative employer until the state pension began or Mr S reduced his outgoings 
proportionately. The tax free lump sum would have been lower, however, and 
notwithstanding the availability of other savings, this may well have been a deal breaker for 
Mr S in terms of his ambition to buy a car and a holiday home. Overall, I dont think 
crystallising a lower income than he needed for his outgoings and/or the lower tax free lump 
sum would have been a palatable option for Mr S. And so, even assuming this was possible, 
I accept that this would effectively rule out retirement through the scheme at age 55.
I therefore need to consider the suitability of Mr S transferring and entering flexi drawdown at 
age 55, as he did, instead of later retirement through the scheme benefits. The flexi 
drawdown option was predicted to provide income equivalent to that Mr S would receive from the scheme from age 55 to age 90  at which point the fund would run out. This would 
exceed the ONS age to which Mr S might be predicted to live, but again, its unclear as to 
whether this income would replicate the scheme benefits in terms of the income escalation, 
spouses benefit, and five year guarantee. 
Nevertheless, assuming that the equivalent income from flexi drawdown did accurately 
mirror the scheme benefits, and feasibility/affordability had been established, I think 
establishing the suitability of doing so can be distilled into the following considerations:
Did Mr S need to retire at age 55?
For the reasons given above, I dont think this was a necessity at the time. Mr S was 
prepared to work for a few more years if necessary, and I dont think the contemporaneous 
evidence suggests that he was desperate to retire.
Did a preference to retire as soon as possible justify the relinquishing of guaranteed 
benefits which could have been accessed three years later?
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont think it did. And in support of this, the following 
was set out as a consideration point in the fact find: 
[Mr S] has a limited capacity for loss on the basis that the pension fund is the main income 
generating asset in retirement. However, with a larger transfer value, further analysis would 
need to be done to determine how much capacity he has depending on his income needs.
My view is that, given that this transfer represented the entirety of Mr Ss private pension 
provision, his low-medium attitude to risk and aversion to taking higher risks with his 
retirement planning, along with the lack of capability to replace lost benefits (hed be retiring), 
and the lack of any further guaranteed benefit through the state pension for a further 12 
years, a stated preference to retire as early as possible didnt justify the transfer of his 
guaranteed benefits just so that he could retire at 55.
Did flexi drawdown suit Mr S? 
As Ive said above, Mr S didnt want to take higher risks with his retirement planning. The 
following was recorded in the fact find:
[Mr S] has taken risks in the past, but he does not want to take higher risks when dealing 
with his retirement. It was agreed that a reduced risk profile would be more suitable if a 
transfer of his DB pension was done.
So if flexi drawdown was deemed suitable for Mr S, it was recognised that a reduced risk 
profile would be needed to meet his heightened sense of caution about his retirement 
benefits. And Ill address whether this in fact transpired further below.
But on the particular issue of whether Mr S was suited to flexi drawdown, I think that sense 
of caution  perhaps to be entirely expected if an individual is transferring their entire private 
pension provision from a guaranteed environment to one which was risk based  then 
inevitably manifested itself in Mr Ss original complaint about the performance of the pension 
funds, especially so soon after the transfer.
I think its therefore doubtful that, notwithstanding what Ive said above about Mr Ss 
circumstances being poorly suited to a transfer into flexi drawdown, Mr S himself had the 
right constitution for exposing his pension funds to investment risk for what would likely be 
the best part of thirty further years of life expectancy. I think concerns expressed that early on in the planned drawdown, as set out in the original complaint, were an illustration of just 
how unsuited Mr S is likely to have been to that kind of arrangement.
And although I acknowledge that this was after the fact, I nevertheless think that this could 
have been readily anticipated at the time of the advice, given Mr Ss situation and his 
expressed sentiments relating to risk and retirement planning. 
Overall, therefore, for the reasons given, my view is that Mr S wasnt a suitable candidate for 
transferring his defined benefits and then entering flexi drawdown. As such, on that basis, I 
dont think the transfer could reasonably be said to have been in his best interests.
Death benefits 
There is, however, the further aspect of the benefits which would be payable in the event of 
Mr Ss death. And Ive thought carefully about whether, notwithstanding my findings above, 
this would have justified the transfer of Mr Ss defined benefits.
Ive noted what was recorded about Mr Ss circumstances at the time of the advice, and 
indeed since, in terms of the separation from his wife. And I have sympathy with what the 
business representative has said about Mr S wanting benefits in the event of his death to be 
paid not only to his wife, but also to his own children from his first marriage. 
And whilst it may have been possible for Mr S to capitalise on the greater flexibility for death 
benefits in a money purchase arrangement by way of spousal bypass trust, or other 
available mechanism, my understanding is that the scheme benefits would have no such 
flexibility. The latter would only pay a 50% pension to his wife, or dependant, with other 
benefits being available to children if they were still financially dependent upon him. But as 
they werent, a transfer was the only route by which Mr S could have fulfilled his wish for any 
death benefits to be paid to his children. 
But I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ss benefits. Firstly, he had no 
particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not 
benefit from a pension income derived of his scheme membership upon retirement for a 
reasonable amount of time, were of concern at that point. As Ive said above, other than one 
managed condition, Mr S was in fact recorded as being in good health.
Secondly, the accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that individuals children. Ive talked 
above about wish fulfilment in the provision of financial advice, but there nevertheless 
being a duty on a firm of advisers to recommend a course of action which is in the clients 
best interests. And if theres a tension there, it should be clearly explained, and if necessary, 
advised against. 
And so, in further consideration of this, Mr S may have found the idea of being able to pass 
death benefits to his children as being desirable, but the recommendation needed to be 
given in the context of  primarily - Mr Ss best interests in terms of his retirement needs. An 
objective to leave a lump sum legacy to his children cannot reasonably have subjugated Mr 
Ss own personal requirement to benefit from his pension. And there was no detail about 
why a lump sum would have been so important to Mr Ss children  for example any ongoing 
financial dependence or straitened financial circumstances, that this would, of itself, have 
justified a transfer of Mr Ss guaranteed benefits.
Ive also thought carefully about what was actually recorded in terms of this objective in the 
fact find. It said the following:[Mr S] is attracted to the TV and the security this would provide his wife in the event of early 
death. He is also attracted to the concept that his children could benefit from any residual 
fund post death.
I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave 
some kind of financial legacy to both his wife and his children, but not essential, and 
certainly not of sufficient importance, given the lack of any financial dependence of his 
children, to justify Mr S compromising the security of his own retirement.
A lump sum for the benefit of Mr Ss children may have had its appeal  and I recognise that 
in some situations the ability to pass a lump sum to more than one beneficiary could be 
particularly advantageous when compared to an income stream through a spouses pension 
(especially given Mr Ss particular situation and his prior experience of divorce). But I dont 
think the right conditions for this to have outweighed the benefits of Mr S retaining his 
deferred benefits  for example a specific need or dependency of his children - were present 
here.
The objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mr S was relinquishing, along with any other benefits to which Mr Ss 
children would be entitled in the event of his death  for example the other assets (savings, 
investments and equity share in his property) which could have been directed towards them 
through estate planning. And my view is that FBWM should have advised him that his own 
financial security in retirement took priority here.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of lump sum death benefits for Mr Ss 
children by way of transferring to the SIPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose 
otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr S. 
What should FBWM have done?
I think the evidence suggests that FBWM spent a considerable amount of time and effort 
considering Mr Ss options, but I think its possible that its decision making in terms of the 
ultimate advice given was skewed by what it viewed as Mr Ss own determination to transfer 
his benefits and his own actions towards that end - for example opting out of the scheme 
before any formal advice or proper analysis had been given.
And I do recognise that, in such a situation, it might be viewed as being difficult to persuade 
an individual to either reverse that opting out if possible, or to rejoin the scheme at his 
earliest opportunity. But this is what I think should have happened here.
To reiterate, Mr S didnt need to retire at that particular point and my view, for the reasons 
given above, is that even if it was his preference to retire as soon as possible, transferring 
out and entering flexi drawdown, with all the associated risks, wasnt in his best interests  
especially when he could have retired with the guaranteed scheme benefits a few years later 
and, in conjunction with other available assets such as savings and investments, fulfilled his 
ambitions of buying a car and a holiday home.
Ive set out above that retirement at age 58  the age mooted as being Mr Ss likely 
retirement age before retirement through flexi drawdown was introduced as a possibility  
would have been viable in terms of the benefits it would provide, and more importantly, 
suitable in terms of the retention of Mr Ss guaranteed scheme benefits.
For all the reasons given above, my view is that FBWM should have recommended this 
course of action to Mr S.Would advice not to transfer have made a difference to Mr Ss decision?
FBWMs representative is right when asserting that I need to consider what Mr S would have 
done, but for the advice to transfer. And although Im satisfied, on the balance of the 
available evidence, that Mr S should have been advised to not transfer his benefits and 
rejoin his OPS if possible, the question of what he would have done, had he been advised 
against the transfer, is in my view a much more difficult issue to address.
And so Ive thought carefully about the cumulative weight of evidence here to fairly and 
reasonably decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened in that scenario.
Mr S had opted out of his OPS by the time any formalised advice was given. And I think, 
from what Ive seen, its fair to say that this was his own decision, with what appears to have 
been no prompting from FBWM. On the contrary, the fact find recorded that Mr S had been 
advised to stay his hand until an analysis of the benefits hed be relinquishing could be 
undertaken. I think its a stretch to describe this process as FBWM urging Mr S to not opt 
out, as has been suggested by its representative. But Im nevertheless satisfied that this 
decision was Mr Ss, and that this wasnt encouraged by FBWM. If Im wrong on this, 
however, Mr S should let me know, with whatever supporting evidence may be available.
Ive therefore thought about why Mr S might have taken this course of action. He wasnt 
particularly experienced in financial matters, and I think it could reasonably be described as 
a bold and potentially life changing step for an individual to unilaterally take with no 
professional input as to the potential consequences. And Ive also noted reference in the fact 
find to Mr S having consulted with other advisers, but then opting to use FBWM for the 
transfer advice. 
This suggests to me that the notion of transferring his scheme benefits, which would have 
required him to opt out of the scheme, may well have been something which had been 
suggested by one of those previous advisers.
FBWM, in its assessment of Mr Ss situation, would reasonably have presented him with 
broadly the same options as Ive discussed above, one of which would have been to do as it 
ultimately recommended  retire at age 55 and enter flexi drawdown. I think the suitable 
option would have been to retire later and capitalise on the guaranteed benefits. But Mr S 
has confirmed that, on the basis of information which indicated that he could retire at 55, 
take the income he needed to cover his expenditure and achieve his capital expenditure 
objectives (car and holiday home), it would have made sense for him do so. And to all 
intents and purposes, notwithstanding the risks of relinquishing his guaranteed benefits and 
taking future investment risk with his pension funds which in my view renders the actual 
advice unsuitable, FBWMs analysis indicated that he could.
And I do think its relevant that, even when replying in writing to the initial investigators view, 
Mr S said that he thought hed been encouraged to transfer, but expressed no particular 
view on his course of action if hed been advised not to. He remained uncertain.
Mr S said that hed been adamant that he didnt want to put his capital at risk and wanted a 
cautious type of investment. But I think this must reasonably refer to the type of investment 
chosen once the transfer had taken place, and is more pertinent to his concerns about 
charges and fund performance. Suitability considerations aside, I dont think it could 
reasonably be concluded that Mr S wasnt aware he was moving from a guaranteed to a risk 
based environment. 
And I do also think its relevant, in addressing the particular question of what Mr S would 
have done, that, whilst its been entirely appropriate for us to consider the suitability of the transfer, Mr S didnt raise the suitability of the transfer advice in his initial complaint. I think 
that, even though Mr S was concerned about the performance of his pension funds, its 
possible that he might nevertheless have considered the transfer to have been his decision 
rather than one which was promoted to him by FBWM.
And its also notable that, in Mr Ss response, in which he set out no particular answer to the 
question of what he would have done if advised to not transfer, he nevertheless wished to 
reiterate, in much more definitive terms, that his original claim about the charges and the 
way in which his SIPP had been invested remained unchanged.
Thats not to say that I think FBWM shouldnt have advised Mr S differently  I do  my view 
is that, for all the reasons set out above, Mr S should have been advised to retain his defined 
benefits and retire later. But on the balance of the currently available evidence  and this 
decision is of course the opportunity for either party to change my mind on any aspect of this 
complaint - I dont think I can fairly and reasonably reach a conclusion that Mr S would have 
acted differently if FBWM had advised him not to transfer.
Whats happened since in terms of Mr Ss personal situation  and I was sorry to hear that 
hes separated from his wife  of course has no bearing on what he would have done at the 
time of the advice. And there was no indication in an otherwise quite candid appraisal of his 
situation and concerns following his previous divorce that he was concerned about the state 
of his current marriage at that point. 
I also dont think that, had Mr S decided not to transfer in 2017, he would in any case have 
transferred when he and his wife separated in 2020, as has been argued by FBWMs 
representative. Mr S may at that point have bought a property for his wife with funds made 
available from the transfer, but had he retained his benefits in the scheme, there would have 
been no necessity to encash them through a transfer at that point. And in the absence of 
those available funds to buy Mrs S a property, he may well have found a different solution to 
his separated status. 
Even if Mr S had divorced in 2020, any pension sharing or earmarking order wouldnt have 
required him to translate his defined benefits into cash at that point, and he had other 
savings and investment which he could have used for any separate accommodation 
arrangement if required.
But for all the other reasons set out above, my current view is that, even if FBWM had 
advised Mr S not to proceed with the transfer, its more likely than not that he would still have 
done so.
The transfer of the FSAVC policy
On the basis that Ive provisionally concluded above that Mr S would have transferred out his 
defined benefits, I think its more likely than not that he would also have wanted to transfer 
his other pension funds into the same pot. As this was effectively one money purchase 
arrangement to another, there were no guarantees which were being relinquished, and the 
matter of suitability really then boils down to whether any exit penalties were unnecessarily 
incurred, and then the type of plan, associated set up costs and investment funds into which 
the proceeds were invested. 
I havent seen any information relating to exit penalties which might have been incurred 
through the transfer of the FSAVC plan, but Id be grateful for either partys confirmation on 
that point in response to this provisional decision. 
As to the wider suitability of the plan into which the FSAVC (and OPS transfer) funds were then transferred, this can be encompassed in my further consideration of Mr Ss original 
complaint to this service, as set out below.
Mr Ss concerns relating to charges and performance of the SIPP
I should say at the outset here that fund performance in itself wouldnt be a reason to uphold 
the complaint. In order to uphold this aspect, Id need to be satisfied that the recommended 
plan and investment portfolio was unsuitable for Mr S in terms of his objectives and attitude 
to risk.
And so, in my consideration of this, I note that Mr Ss transferred funds were placed into 
DFM, or as it was called within the chosen SIPP, into a Discretionary Investment Manager 
(DIM) portfolio. This effectively placed Mr Ss pension funds into four investment funds, plus 
a cash fund, which had a combined investment charge averaging 1.09% pa, inclusive of the 
management charge aspect and the holdings charge. 
FBWMs rationale for recommending this service was as follows, taken directly from the 
suitability report:
This is a bespoke discretionary management service. [The DFM] will design and 
manage a truly bespoke portfolio tailored to your individual needs and investment 
profile. Your portfolio will be closely monitored, and changes will be applied swiftly in 
response to changes in your circumstances or market conditions.
As a company we have performed extensive due diligence on all of our investment 
partners and [the DFM] meet the criteria set out in that process.
You require a more personal investment service with access to your own dedicated 
investment manager.
You do not wish to be involved in the day-to-day management of your investments. 
You are happy to delegate routine investment decisions to an investment manager and 
allow them to make changes to your portfolio without having to seek your consent.
It reflects our agreed service proposition and approach to investment reviews.
You are willing to incur higher investment charges in return for enhanced 
performance prospects.
It provides exposure to a range of asset classes and market sectors resulting in 
greater diversification and reduced risk.
The portfolio selected utilises an investment process known as risk managing. The aim 
of risk managed portfolios is to offer investors a range of expected risk (and return) 
investment options which overall remain aligned to your stated investment risk profile.
The SIPP itself had an initial set up charge  paid to FBWM  of 1.5%. There was a further 
ongoing adviser charge of 0.75%. Both of these were set out in the suitability report, and it 
would be difficult to reasonably argue that Mr S would have been unaware of these, or that 
he hadnt agreed to pay them.
But whilst the actual amount of fees charged would be a matter between an advising firm 
and its client, if Im persuaded that, on a fair and reasonable assessment of whats more 
likely than not to have been the case, Mr S accepted the fee arrangement because he, for 
example, knew no better, it might be concluded that there was an imbalance in the 
contractual agreement, such that I could decide whether the level of fees paid was, in fact, 
unfair.
I think that, given the overall long term investment strategy for Mr S, along with the cash 
modelling undertaken by FBWM to ensure that flexi drawdown worked for him in the way 
intended, a degree of active management of his portfolio wasnt necessarily an unsuitable 
recommendation. And as set out above in the suitability report, Mr S had agreed that he was willing to incur higher investment charges for enhanced performance prospects.
But I do have concerns about the prospect of Mr S paying an ongoing adviser fee to 
FBWM, and then a higher amount than might otherwise be payable in terms of fund 
charges for the DFM service. If Mr Ss portfolio was being actively managed through DFM, 
Id question as to why he then also needed to pay an additional ongoing adviser charge to 
FBWM. I acknowledge that  aside from the portfolio management which was to be 
conducted by the DFM, there might be some routine servicing requirements required for Mr 
Ss pension funds. But it would seem to me to be difficult to justify both the higher DFM cost 
and the ongoing annual adviser fee of 0.75% - or around £5,000 pa after the tax free cash 
was taken. This was especially the case when Mr S had already paid FBWM a fee in 
respect of the transfer, in addition to a further 1.5% set up cost for the SIPP.
If Mr S was paying in the region of £5,000 pa to FBWM for ongoing services, it might 
reasonably be expected that this would include a regular assessment of his circumstances 
and how his pension funds were invested. But certainly the latter was being taken care of 
under the DFM arrangement.
So my current view is that it would have been appropriate for Mr S to either pay the ongoing 
adviser fee, with no requirement for the higher costing DFM, or that he pay for the latter, 
with a reduced requirement, and therefore lower fee, for the former.
In terms of the actual investment portfolio chosen for Mr S, I dont think this was necessarily 
unsuitable for his circumstances, including his attitude to risk, and short, medium and longer 
term objectives. The overall strategy seems to have been carefully considered, was 
diversified between conventional funds which would react to market conditions and those 
designed to weather financial volatility, and wasnt ostensibly at odds with Mr Ss attitude to 
investment risk. 
But the chosen funds for investment had already been selected by FBWM in the suitability 
report. And so, given my view that, for the ongoing advice fee Mr S was paying to FBWM he 
could reasonably have expected that the portfolio would be regularly reassessed, I dont 
think that Mr S needed to pay the additional DFM cost  0.975% pa on top of the underlying 
holdings charge for the non-cash funds.
Therefore, on the basis that I think Mr Ss needs could have been met by regular 
reassessment of his position by FBWM in return for the ongoing fee he was paying it, my 
current view is that FBWM should refund to Mr S the cost of the additional DFM.
Putting things right
My understanding is that Mr S has transferred his pension funds to an alternate provider. To 
determine the position in which his pension funds would currently be, had the additional 
DFM cost not been applied, FBWM should calculate the notional value of the funds which Mr 
S transferred to the new provider had that DFM cost not been incurred. The percentage 
difference between that notional value and the actual value which was transferred should 
then be applied to the current value, as at the date of any final decision along these lines, of 
Mr Ss pension funds. The monetary difference should, if possible, be paid to Mr Ss current 
pension plan so that it is made up to that notional value, allowing for any charges and 
available tax relief, and annual allowance factors.
If its not possible to pay the amount into Mr Ss pension plan, or such a payment would 
conflict with any lifetime allowance protection, the compensation amount should be paid 
directly to Mr S. As the income derived from the compensation payment would otherwise be 
subject to income tax, FBWM may make a notional deduction from the amount to reflect the income tax rate which Mr S pays in retirement, which Ive assumed to be 20%. 
Neither FBWM, nor its representative, has submitted any further comments in response to 
the provisional decision. 
Mr S has replied in the following terms:
The initial fee payable to FBWM wasnt reduced  he paid the amount quoted when 
he first approached it. And the charges subsequently increased after the initial 
meeting.
Although Mr S accepted that he signed up for a charge as a percentage of the total 
transfer, he thought this was unfair. He considered that the charge should reflect the 
actual time taken and the costs incurred by FBWM.
He refuted the claim that FBWM would regularly review his funds as this was being 
handled by the DFM.
He remained of the view that the incorrect information (including reference to a 
different scheme) included in the suitability report was indicative of the reduced 
amount of effort which FBWM had put into his case.
Although Mr S acknowledged that this was only part of the picture, he said that the 
FTSE 100 rose between April and May 2018, but the value of his investments fell.
He wanted to retire early if possible, but was prepared to work for a few more years. 
At no time was he put off transferring by FBWM  he was in fact told that, by 
transferring, he could retire tomorrow, even after taking the lump sum to buy a 
holiday home.
All projections given for his pension were very positive, and he was told that he could 
expect a return of £30,000 pa from his pension, which was the equivalent to his 
annual wage. As a result, he jumped at the chance of retiring.
He didnt recall FBWM ever telling him that it would be highly unlikely that it would 
recommend him opting out. Once it knew the size of his transfer value, it never 
expressed any negativity about the prospect.
Mr S hadnt spoken to any other financial adviser, other than to discuss their 
prospective charges.
He agreed that the decision to transfer was his, but there was no negativity from 
FBWM on the subject which might have changed his mind. Mr S queried as to why 
he would to change his mind when all he heard was positive feedback about the 
proposed transfer.
There were no charges relating to the FSAVC plan transfer, as far as Mr S was 
aware.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive carefully thought about Mr Ss comments above and how this might alter my overall view on the complaint. Having done so, and whilst Im grateful to Mr S for offering 
clarity on certain aspects, my conclusions on how the complaint should be resolved havent 
changed.
In my assessment of the complaint, Ive taken into account the charges which Mr S paid to 
FBWM, including those which he paid for the financial advice itself. I can see why Mr S might 
consider that a flat fee for the transfer advice might be more appropriate, and this is how 
some businesses operate, but others do operate a percentage based model. 
The costs to a business include not just the matter of the initial advice and facilitating the 
transfer, but also the potential cost to a business if its later deemed to have given unsuitable 
advice  and that cost can be considerable. In broad terms, the bigger the transferred sum, 
the bigger the potential liability. Even though businesses typically have professional 
indemnity insurance to cover the bulk of such costs, there may be a significant excess to 
pay first, as with other types of insurance. 
And so, given the size of the transferred sum here, I dont think that it was necessarily 
unreasonable in this case to charge a percentage of the overall transfer value.  
I note that Mr S continues to have concerns about the quality of the suitability report he 
received, and that the inclusion of references to a different scheme gave him the impression 
that due care and attention on his particular case hadnt been taken. And I have some 
sympathy with this, but I dont think its uncommon for businesses to use a template for 
their suitability reports, especially when they may be considering similar issues, such as 
would arise in defined benefits transfers. And whilst it was certainly unfortunate that another 
scheme was referenced in his suitability report, Im broadly satisfied from the other detail in 
the report and the fact finding process that FBWM did consider the detail of Mr Ss individual 
case.
As to the point relating to the losses incurred in his portfolio against the gains experienced 
by the FTSE 100 in the same period, I can appreciate that this would have been 
disappointing to witness, but as Mr S also says, this is only part of the picture, and a much 
longer period of investment performance would need to be considered to determine whether 
the portfolio had done well. But that kind of performance wouldnt ordinarily impact on the 
suitability of the advice  and as I said in the provisional decision, I didnt think that the type 
of investments recommended were unsuitable.
Mr S has also reconfirmed his earlier stated rationale for deciding to proceed with the 
transfer, in that the information about him being able to retire immediately and receive a 
pension income equivalent to his annual salary made it, in his mind, the sensible course of 
action. And Mr S has further said that he didnt recall FBWM saying that it was unlikely that it 
would recommend that he opt out of the BSPS, and he didnt recall it expressing negative 
sentiments about it, or the transfer, which might have changed his mind. 
But Mr S still hasnt gone as far as definitively saying that he would have decided to retain 
his deferred benefits if advised to do so  and has confirmed that it was his decision to firstly 
opt out, albeit with no financial advice to do so, and then transfer. I acknowledge that Mr S 
may still be uncertain as to what he would have done, but I dont think, on the basis of the 
available evidence, that I can fairly and reasonably conclude that he wouldnt in any case 
have wanted to proceed with the transfer and early retirement.
I do, however, remain of the same view with regard to the DFM service. I think it was 
unnecessary, given the service which FBWM could, and arguably should, have been 
providing for the ongoing fee it was charging.Putting things right
I set out in the provisional decision my understanding that Mr S had transferred his pension 
funds to an alternate provider.
To therefore determine the position in which his pension funds would currently be, had the 
additional DFM cost not been applied, FB Wealth Management Ltd should calculate the 
notional value of the funds which Mr S transferred to the new provider had that DFM cost not 
been incurred. The percentage difference between that notional value and the actual value 
which was transferred should then be applied to the current value, as at the date of this final 
decision, of Mr Ss pension funds. The monetary difference should, if possible, be paid to Mr 
Ss current pension plan so that it is made up to that notional value, allowing for any charges 
and available tax relief, and annual allowance factors.
If its not possible to pay the amount into Mr Ss pension plan, or such a payment would 
conflict with any lifetime allowance protection, the compensation amount should be paid 
directly to Mr S. As the income derived from the compensation payment would otherwise be 
subject to income tax, FB Wealth Management Ltd may make a notional deduction from the 
amount to reflect the income tax rate which Mr S pays in retirement, which Ive assumed to 
be 20%.
Any compensation due as a result of the above calculation should be paid within 28 days of 
FB Wealth Management Ltd being notified of Mr Ss acceptance of this decision. If it isnt, 
interest at the rate of 8% simple pa should be applied to the compensation amount from the 
date of this decision to the date of settlement. 
Mr S will, for his part, need to assist FB Wealth Management Ltd in either obtaining the 
relevant information, or providing authority for it to seek this in order to complete the 
calculation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part, and direct FB Wealth Management 
Ltd to undertake the above calculation and pay any redress due accordingly.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman