DRN-4025424
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Ms A and is about her mortgage account with Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax. The complaint is about the following issues:
1. incorrect information about taking a pandemic payment deferral in November 2020;
2. a branch manager told Ms A not to pay off the mortgage;
3. difficulties calling Halifax to discuss her financial difficulties, as a result of which she 
wasnt able to receive the help she needed or switch to a lower interest rate;
4. the need to make two payments in succession after Ms A cancelled her direct debit, and 
the poor customer service shed received when trying to resolve this in a branch.
I have today issued a jurisdiction decision in which I have explained why I wont be looking at 
another issue Ms A raised around the cancellation of a mortgage payment protection 
insurance policy in 2006. I will therefore make no further comment about that matter.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 13 January 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms A being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Ms A has a mortgage with Halifax taken out in 2003. The complaint arose after Ms A 
unfortunately lost her job in early 2020 due to the pandemic. When Ms A spoke to Halifax in 
November 2020, she explained that she didnt need a Covid payment deferral at the time. 
However, by April 2022 Ms As financial circumstances had worsened. At this point Halifax 
identified Ms A as a customer with vulnerabilities. There were various discussions between 
Ms A and Halifax about what assistance could be provided. (As I said above, I will not go 
into details about these, as they are set out in correspondence.) Ms A was very unhappy at 
what she saw as a lack of support and help from Halifax and raised a number of complaints, 
which are listed above. 
Halifax paid Ms A £18 for call charges, and £100 for a lack of clarity around the need to 
make two payments in a month if the direct debit collection date was moved.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Ms A brought her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened. He reached the following conclusions:
Point 1: Ms A was clear in November 2020 that she didnt need to apply for a payment 
deferral. Halifax had asked if Ms A needed one but she said not. He didnt think Halifax had 
done anything wrong.
Point 2: There was no evidence in Halifaxs records to support Ms As contention that she 
was told by a branch manager not to pay off her mortgage. The investigator thought that if 
this had been a priority for Ms A, she could have followed it up.
Point 3: The investigator thought this part of the complaint should be upheld. He found that 
when Ms A called Halifax on 25 April 2022 it ought to have been obvious to Halifax that she 
was in financial difficulties and was suffering distress and upset. However, Ms A wasnt 
routed to the correct team immediately, and ended the call after 50 minutes. The investigator 
asked Halifax to pay £300 for its poor customer service, which Halifax agreed to do.
The investigator didnt think Halifax had acted incorrectly in not putting Ms As mortgage onto 
a lower rate, as this requires an application for a new interest rate product.
Point 4: The investigator didnt think the complaint about changing the date of the direct debit 
should be upheld. Halifax had paid Ms A £100 for poor customer service when she visited a 
branch to try to sort this issue out. The investigator thought this was fair and reasonable.
Halifax agreed with the investigators outcome and to pay the additional £300 compensation 
recommended by the investigator. Ms A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents and 
various telephone call recordings. Ive read everything and listened to the call recordings, 
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those in 
financial difficulty, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive, when due, 
payment of the money owed to it. The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) has specific provisions for lenders detailing how they should deal with 
customers who are in arrears with their mortgage. But where customers arent yet in arrears 
but are about to face financial difficulty, there are no specific provisions in the rules for this. 
But Halifax is required to treat customers facing financial hardship fairly and look for ways to 
help them, as far as possible. 
Keeping to the same numbering above, my findings are as follows.
Point 1: Im satisfied that Ms A was advised about the availability of pandemic payment 
deferrals in November 2020, but said at the time that she didnt need one. Im not upholding 
this part of the complaint.Point 2: Ms A is adamant that a branch manager told her not to use her savings to pay off 
the mortgage. I dont doubt Ms As recollection that she had a conversation about this, 
although Ms A hasnt been able to provide specifics of this. However, branch managers 
arent able to give customers financial advice  thats the job of specialist staff who are 
qualified to give regulated financial advice on mortgages and/or investments and savings. 
Given this, I think it is more likely than not that Ms A was probably told by the branch 
manager that he couldnt give her any advice about this  and that Ms A may have 
misinterpreted this as the branch manager telling her she wasnt allowed to pay off her 
mortgage. As the investigator said, if this was a priority for Ms A, I think she could have 
followed it up. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Point 3: I agree with the investigator that Halifax could  and should  have done more to 
help Ms A when she spoke to the bank on 25 April 2022. To preserve Ms As anonymity, I 
wont go into details of what she discussed, but I think Halifax ought to have transferred the 
call immediately to the correct team to deal with vulnerable customers in financial difficulties. 
I can see that Ms A was left frustrated and upset that after almost an hour on the phone she 
hadnt been able to speak to someone who could help her.
Im satisfied that Halifaxs customer service fell short here. I think the investigators 
recommendation of £300 compensation is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the 
circumstances, in addition to the £18 paid by Halifax for the cost of Ms As telephone calls.
But Im also satisfied that, even if shed been able to speak to someone in the relevant team 
on 25 April 2022, it wouldnt have been possible to switch Ms As mortgage to a lower rate of 
interest during that call. This would need an application by Ms A, after shed selected (or 
been advised about) an interest rate product that suited her circumstances. 
However, where a customer is facing financial difficulty  as Ms A was  switching to a new 
rate is sometimes not the best option. This is because interest rate products generally come 
with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage is repaid early. So tying a customer in 
financial hardship into a product with an ERC can cost the customer more if they arent able 
to keep up with the mortgage and have to sell the property during the period when the ERC 
applies. So its not something that can be done with a phone call, as it is a balancing 
exercise where Ms A would need to consider the implications of a rate switch.  Im therefore 
not upholding this part of the complaint.
Point 4: Ms A made an online request on 11 September 2022 to change her mortgage 
payment from the 15th of the month to the 1st of the month. She cancelled the direct debit on 
16 September 2022. However, the change to the payment date couldnt go through because 
the direct debit had been cancelled. In its final response letter dated 24 October 2022 Halifax 
explained the implications of this, requiring two payments to be made in quick succession. I 
appreciate Ms A didnt realise the consequences of cancelling the direct debit, but Im not 
persuaded Halifax has done anything wrong here, so Im not upholding this part of the 
complaint.
But this resulted in the account falling into arrears, and I can see Ms A was very upset about 
this. Ms A visited a branch to try to resolve the matter, and booked an appointment 
specifically for this. Halifax has accepted that Ms A should instead have been asked to 
contact a specialist team on the phone, and this was done when she was in the branch. 
Halifax offered compensation of £100 for this, which I am satisfied is fair and reasonable.Putting things right
In addition to the £100 compensation already paid and the £18 for the cost of Ms As 
telephone calls, I direct Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to pay compensation of £300 
for distress and inconvenience. I make no other order or award.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms A was hoping for. I can see from what Ms A has told us that 
she has been through a very difficult time and I dont in any way underestimate the impact of 
this on her. I can see from her submissions the intensity with which Ms A has brought this 
complaint. She sees error or wrongdoing in almost everything Halifax has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as 
close to a situation as Ms A has been here.
But I have a different remit; I have to be objective, and impartial, and look at the case based 
on the evidence, rather than be swayed by emotion. After carefully reviewing all the 
evidence, and after taking into consideration all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the 
additional compensation of £300 recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Ms A compensation of £300, in addition to the 
£118 already paid.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman