DRN-2399943
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Intrum UK Limited (Intrum) recorded missed payments on her credit file
after it changed the way it collects payments.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 November 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I said: 
Intrum acquired Mrs Ls account in July 2017 at which point she was making monthly 
repayments of £1 (her minimum payment). In October 2018 Mrs L increased the payments 
from £1 to £25. Mrs Ls payments were made via Intrums systems and authorised by Mrs 
L via text message.
On 8 November 2019 Intrum a text message to Mrs L that said it was changing the online 
portal and that the changes may affect the way she made repayments. The text message 
was repeated on 22 November 2019. On 22 November 2019, Intrum collected a payment 
of £25 from Mrs L who authorised it via text message.
Intrum withdrew the payment method that Mrs L had in place in December 2019. Mrs Ls 
payments due in December 2019 and January 2020 werent collected. On 29 January 
2020 Intrum wrote to Mrs L to say she had broken her payment plan.
Mrs L subsequently spoke with Intrum and set the £25 payment plan back up with a 
payment being taken on 21 February 2020. Mrs L has continued to maintain her payments 
since this time.
Mrs L complained as she found Intrum had recorded arrears on her credit file. Intrum 
responded on 26 March 2020 but didnt agree it had made an error. Intrum said it is 
obliged to report accurate information to the credit reference agency and that it had sent 
Mrs L text messages about the change in payment method.
An investigator at our service looked at Mrs Ls complaint but felt Intrum had dealt with it 
fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs L asked to appeal and said the text 
messages she received were vague and unclear. l, her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached a different decision to the
investigator, Im not persuaded that Intrum has treated Mrs L fairly in this case.
In response to Mrs Ls complaint, Intrum said it had sent a series of text messages about the
change in its payment systems to her in November 2019. Intrum said Mrs L hadnt taken the
necessary action which resulted in her account going into arrears by £1 for two months.
Mrs L, in turn, has pointed out that before the two months in question, she was overpaying
by making payments of £25 when only £1 was due. Mrs L has also told us that she feels the
text messages she received were vague and unclear.
Ive looked at the text messages and I think they could have been clearer. The text
messages dont say that the new payment method will impact Mrs Ls payment method. Nor
do the text messages warn Mrs L that failure to review her payment method could lead to
serious consequences for her credit file. Given how long the consequences of missing a
payment will impact Mrs L, Id have expected Intrum to provide a very clear warning.
Intrum hasnt sent us anything to show it contacted Mrs L to tell her the December 2019
payment was missed. Given Intrum had just switched to a new payment portal, Id have
expected it to provide some additional support to Mrs L after she had failed to update her
payment method in time. Im surprised that no text messages or arrears letters were sent to
Mrs L during December 2019 or January 2020, except a payment plan renewal letter. But I
note the renewal letter, sent on 23 December 2019, doesnt include any references to the
new payment portal or arrears.
I havent found that the missed payments were caused due to any deliberate intention by
Mrs L not to pay or financial difficulties. Mrs Ls minimum payment was £1 a month and she
had been making repayments of £25 a month. In my view, the missed payments were
caused by a genuine misunderstanding.
Intrum says it is obliged to report accurate information about its relationship with Mrs L and
the way she handles her account. I agree with that approach. Im not persuaded that the two
missed payments Intrum reported accurately shows how Mrs L managed her account. The
arrears information doesnt take into account the new repayment method Intrum introduced
or that Mrs L wasnt warned that failure to update her payment method could lead to missed
payments being recorded on her credit file.
As Ive said above, I think Intrum needed to make the consequences of failing to update the
payment method very clear to Mrs L given the length of time the arrears information will
impact her credit. Im not persuaded that Intrums decision to record missed payments for
December 2019 and January 2020 is fair or accurately reflects what happened. Based on
the information Ive seen so far, I intend to tell Intrum to amend Mrs Ls credit file and
remove the arrears it reported in December 2019 and January 2020.
Ive also considered how the issues Ive set out above have impacted Mrs L. Its clear Mrs L
is has been upset by the information reported on her credit file and its clear shes had to
spend a reasonable amount of time trying to persuade Intrum to remove it. From the
information Ive seen, I think Intrum failed to treat Mrs L in a reasonable manner and that
£100 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on her.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Intrum UK Limited
to remove the arrears information it reported for December 2019 and January 2020 from
Mrs Ls credit file. I also intend to tell Intrum UK Limited to pay Mrs L £100 for the distress
and inconvenience caused by its actions.
I invited Mrs L and Intrum to respond with any additional information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Intrum responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mrs L responded and said she had 
settled the outstanding balance in full. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent me any new information to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mrs Ls complaint should 
be upheld, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Intrum UK Limited to remove the 
arrears information it reported from December 2019 and January 2020 from Mrs Ls credit 
file. I also direct Intrum UK Limited to pay Mrs L £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman