DRN-2534862
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly placed a block on his account.
What happened
Mr L says Barclays placed blocks on both his business and personal accounts in October 
2020. This complaint is about the block placed on his personal account. He says he had no 
access to his money and the block resulted in a lost investment. Mr L would like an 
explanation for what took place as well as compensation and an apology. He says the 
account block was removed which provides evidence he did nothing wrong and that the 
block was not needed.
Barclays says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to place a block on an 
account whilst it conducts safeguarding reviews. It says that is what took place here and it 
placed the block on Mr Ls account on 5 October 2020 and removed it within its timescales 
on 20 October 2020. 
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays was entitled to place the account block in line with account terms and 
conditions and removed it within the time period it said it would. The investigator thought 
Barclays was obliged to comply with its regulatory duties.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and maintains Barclays actions were unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision and I accept he would have been 
caused inconvenience by Barclays actions.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr L would have agreed to 
when his account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that in certain 
circumstances Barclays may take action to comply with its regulatory duties which can, as in 
this case, involve account restrictions. So, I dont think Barclays made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by placing the account block on Mr Ls account when it decided it needed to carry 
out a review in line with its regulatory duty.
I accept that Mr L wanted access to his money and that he would have been caused 
inconvenience. But I dont think that means Barclays made a mistake for the reasons I have 
explained and was entitled to follow its regulatory obligations. I dont think it matters that 
Barclays removed the restrictions and I dont find that it follows that those actions show it 
made a mistake.
I can see that Barclays removed the blocks within the time period it said it would and whilst I 
accept Mr L made a number of calls to Barclays, I find it fairly explained what was taking 
place. I dont think in any event Barclays is obliged to give Mr L the reasons for the account 
review and restrictions.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant fairly 
order it to pay Mr L compensation or provide any further reasons for taking the action it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman