DRN-3657408
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the sale of her private medical insurance policy by 
Morehealth Limited.
What happened
Mrs S held private medical insurance cover with an insurer (that Ill call Policy A).
In 2018, Morehealth arranged for Mrs S to switch her cover to a new policy with a 
different insurer (Ill call this Policy B).
In 2021, Mrs S made a claim under Policy B as she needed surgery on her left knee. After 
assessing the claim, the insurer said Mrs S (or Morehealth on her behalf) hadnt disclosed 
relevant information about her left knee when applying for the policy. The insurer said that, 
if it had known the information, it would have applied an exclusion for any disorders of the 
left knee. The insurer therefore applied this exclusion retrospectively and turned down the 
claim.
Mrs S complained to Morehealth about the sale of Policy B. She said she had 
told Morehealth about issues with her left knee at the time of the application.
Morehealth accepted that Mrs S had told it that she had had an arthroscopy, but said it 
had checked with the insurer whether it needed to disclose this information before 
submitting the application. Based on Morehealths conversation with the insurer, it didnt 
think Mrs Ss arthroscopy would have made a difference to the insurers acceptance of 
the application, so it didnt disclose this. Morehealth said that Mrs S hadnt told it she had 
arthritic changes to her knee and needed a knee replacement, and said that if she had 
done, this information would have been given to the insurer.
Unhappy with Morehealths response, Mrs S brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2022. Heres what I said:
The insurer asked:
In the last three years, have you or any person to be insured:
experienced symptoms, or
received any advice from a healthcare professional, or
received treatment or have treatment planned or expected (including 
prescribed or over the counter medication)
for any condition?
Morehealth answered no on Mrs Ss behalf to this question.
Ive listened to the calls between Morehealth and Mrs S to see what Mrs S was asked.
During the first call, the adviser said hed looked at Mrs Ss medical notes and saw that in 
February 2018 she had had an arthroscopy of her left knee. He said Has there been 
anything else since then? Mrs S said no and the adviser went onto say or was that 
just the only claim? Mrs S replied to say that was the only claim, but she had had 
physio. The adviser then asked if they had said it was due to arthritis at all, or if it was 
just an injury. Mrs S said it was an injury, a meniscus tear.
I think Mrs S gave Morehealth correct information in response to the questions she was 
asked. Her arthroscopy was her only private medical insurance claim in respect of her 
knee, and this was due to a meniscus tear. Although she was later seen under the NHS 
in respect of her knee and was found to have arthritic changes, that wasnt what she was 
asked by the adviser.
During the second call, the adviser clarified that Mrs S had had a meniscus injury in 
February 2018 for which she had an arthroscopy. He said Did they say if there was 
any arthritis there at all? and Mrs S replied No, they didnt say anything like that, they 
just did the arthroscopy because of the meniscus tear.
Again, Im satisfied that Mrs S answered the advisers questions correctly.
Theres been a lot of discussion between Morehealth and our investigator over whether 
the insurer for Policy B would have applied the exclusion if it had only known of Mrs Ss 
arthroscopy. I dont think this is particularly relevant. The crux of the issue is that 
Morehealths adviser didnt ask Mrs S the above medical question asked by the insurer, 
so she wasnt given the opportunity to disclose the relevant information that the insurer 
wanted to know. I therefore find that the policy was mis-sold.
The insurer has confirmed that if it had known the relevant information, it would have 
excluded any disorders of the left knee. If Mrs S had remained covered under Policy A, 
its likely she would have had cover for her knee. So I think that Mrs S was prejudiced 
by the mis-sale. This has caused Mrs S a great deal of inconvenience as although she 
has a cheaper policy, she has been left without cover for her left knee and so hasnt 
been able to fully benefit from her policy. She will also likely face difficulties in the future 
obtaining private cover for her knee.
Mrs S has already had knee surgery under the NHS, though she had to go on a waiting 
list for this. She was placed on the waiting list in August 2020, and didnt have the 
surgery until January 2022. Shes confirmed that she remained in hospital for four nights 
for her surgery.
Mrs S has explained that whilst she was waiting for her surgery, she was in severe pain 
and had difficulty walking. She also needed help from friends and family with some of her 
household chores. I think its apparent that Mrs S was therefore not only caused 
inconvenience by the mis-sale, but also pain and suffering.
To put things right, I think Morehealth should pay £100 a night to Mrs S for the time 
she spent in hospital, to recognise the loss of comfort she experienced by not having 
her operation in a private hospital.
I also think Morehealth should pay Mrs S £2,000 compensation for distress, 
inconvenience, and the pain and suffering she experienced as a result of the mis-sale.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I reached a final decision.
Mrs S responded to confirm that she accepted my provisional findings. She also provided evidence to show that she had spent four nights in an NHS hospital for her 
surgery.
Morehealth responded with the following main points:
It thinks there is a fundamental flaw in this services understanding of the 
insurers application process and the underwriting rules for this disclosure at the 
time. It says that its adviser called the insurers underwriting team, and this was 
the process for obtaining underwriting decisions in 2018.
It says Mrs S didnt disclose her arthritic changes, even when asked. Morehealth 
was only made aware of a meniscus tear treated by arthroscopy, which it 
disclosed to the insurers underwriters.
It remains of the view that the insurer would not have applied an exclusion if it 
had known only of Mrs Ss meniscus tear and arthoscopy.
Mrs S had been its client since 2015, and its system holds very detailed medical 
history regarding its clients from the first date of contact. It says that Mrs Ss 
medical history had been documented for three years prior to switching to 
Policy B in 2018, and by that it means, she had been asked medical questions 
every 12 months.
It says I made a factually incorrect statement in my provisional decision. 
It has provided a call that took place before renewal in November 2018 where 
Mrs S was asked medical questions. It thinks this shows that Mrs S wasnt honest 
with Morehealth about her health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morehealth says that its adviser called the insurers underwriting team. It says the disclosure 
given by Mrs S did not fall under the questions that would have resulted in a referral to 
medical underwriting and therefore no exclusion would apply. Morehealth has asked why I 
believe the arthroscopy was not disclosed by its adviser to the insurer. 
I didnt address this point in my provisional decision, as I didnt find it relevant. But to clarify, I 
accept that Morehealths adviser called the insurer and told it about Mrs Ss meniscus tear 
and arthroscopy. The adviser said he couldnt see that it would fall under the questions, and 
didnt know if it needed to be declared or not. The insurer said that since Mrs Ss condition 
wasnt to do with arthritis, then it would only refer to the underwriters if there was any 
treatment planned, expected or anticipated.
Nonetheless, I agree with our investigator that the insurer didnt tell Morehealth not to 
declare Mrs Ss arthroscopy in response to the medical question asked. The fact remains 
that when the application was put through the online portal to the insurer, Morehealths 
answer to the relevant question was no, but that answer was incorrect. 
Morehealth has continued to question the insurers assertion that it would have applied the 
exclusion if it had known only of the arthroscopy, as it doesnt believe that to be correct. I 
think Morehealth could well be right. However, I dont intend to pursue this point with the 
insurer, as I dont think its relevant to the matter. As I said in my provisional decision, the crux of the issue is that Morehealth didnt ask Mrs S the medical question asked by the 
insurer at the time of the switch. It is accepted by Morehealth that if the insurer had known of 
Mrs Ss requirement for a knee replacement, an exclusion would have been added.
Morehealth thinks I made a factually incorrect statement in my provisional decision when I 
said:
I think Mrs S gave Morehealth correct information in response to the questions she was 
asked. Her arthroscopy was her only private medical insurance claim in respect of her knee, 
and this was due to a meniscus tear. Although she was later seen under the NHS in respect 
of her knee and was found to have arthritic changes, that wasnt what she was asked by the 
adviser.
Morehealth is under the impression that my reference to Mrs S being seen later under the 
NHS meant that this took place after the call with the adviser. To be clear, I was referring to 
Mrs S being seen under the NHS after her arthroscopy.
Morehealth has said that it holds a detailed medical history for its clients, and that it asks 
medical questions every 12 months. Morehealth has now provided a call that took place prior 
to renewal in November 2018 with Mrs S. 
In this call, Morehealth explained it was going to see if there were any better options 
available for Mrs S, and would carry out a review as it normally would. Mrs S was asked by 
Morehealth if she had seen a consultant in the last 12 months, and she confirmed she had 
done so for her knee. She explained she had had an arthroscopy in February 2018. 
Morehealth asked Mrs S if it was all ok now, and she confirmed it was. Morehealth also 
asked Did they say there was arthritis in the knee? and Mrs S said no it was a meniscus 
tear. Morehealth also asked Mrs S if shed had any other consultations in the last 12 months, 
and she said no. 
I think Mrs S gave Morehealth accurate information in respect of her arthroscopy. However, I 
accept that Mrs S ought to have told Morehealth (in response to the questions asked) that 
shed had a further consultation for her knee in September 2018 and had been found to have 
arthritic changes and required a knee replacement. 
Having said that, I think its one thing not to take care to give an intermediary accurate 
information about your health when they are carrying out a review of your cover, and quite 
another to misrepresent information to an insurer when taking out an insurance policy. The 
consequences of misrepresenting information to an insurer is that a claim may not be paid, 
and the policy even voided. 
Mrs S makes the reasonable point that she wasnt told what the insurer wanted to know at 
the time of the switch, and also wasnt given the opportunity to check what answer/s 
Morehealth had given on her behalf. 
I think the most relevant call took place in December 2018. Morehealth had sent Mrs S a 
quote, and Mrs S called Morehealth to go ahead with the switch to Policy B. Given that 
Morehealth knew at this time what policy Mrs S was going to take out, I would have 
expected the adviser to have made Mrs S aware of the medical information that the insurer 
wanted to know. 
As Morehealth didnt do so, I think the fault lay with Morehealth here, as Mrs S was denied 
the opportunity to disclose the relevant information to the insurer. I therefore remain of the 
opinion that the policy was mis-sold, and that Morehealth should put things right in the same 
way that I explained in my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Morehealth Limited to pay 
Mrs S:
- £2,000 compensation; and
- £400 for the four nights that Mrs S spent in hospital for her knee surgery.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman