DRN-3650229
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that Scottish Widows Limited should pay 8% simple interest on a 
backdated claim on their whole of life policy and pay interest on the premiums refunded.
What happened
Mr J made a claim on an income protection policy he held with Scottish Widows and applied 
to take the benefits from his Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
pension. Scottish Widows obtained medical information and settled the claim for the income 
protection in 2007 and allowed Mr J to take his FSAVC benefits early because of his ill 
health. 
Mr J also held a joint life whole of life policy with Mrs J and says they didnt claim on this 
policy at the time as they believed it only provided cover if they died. In 2021, Mrs J and Mr J 
complained that Scottish Widows should have identified Mr J held this policy in 2007 when 
he made his other claims and should have paid out on this policy too.
Scottish Widows responded to Mrs J and Mr J and said it was their responsibility to make a 
claim. In respect of the FSAVC claim Scottish Widows said there was no procedure in place 
that necessitated the need for them to check for any other protection policies under which a 
new claim might be considered. In respect of the income protection claim, Scottish Widows 
said there was nothing to suggest Mr J was suffering from a permanent disability, and they 
had no reason to be alert to the possibility Mr J might then be likely to claim under the 
definition of permanent and total disability of the whole of life policy at some future date. 
However, Scottish Widows agreed to backdate the claim on the whole of life policy to 
November 2007 and paid out the sum assured plus interest at 1% above the Bank of 
England base rate until the settlement of the claim. Scottish Widows also returned the 
premiums Mrs J and Mr J had paid since 2007 without interest. 
Mrs J and Mr J felt that Scottish Widows should pay interest at 8% simple interest on the 
sum assured and on the refunded premiums. So, they brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that 
Scottish Widows had taken reasonable steps to resolve the claim and that the remedy theyd 
paid was more than we would expect them to pay in the circumstances of this case. Mrs J 
and Mr J asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint and the case has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs J and Mr J will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as the Investigator I wont be asking Scottish Widows to do anything else. 
Mrs J and Mr J initially told Scottish Widows they didnt make a claim on the policy as they 
thought it only provided life cover, and later added they didnt think it covered mentally 
incapacitated customers. Mrs J and Mr J provided a copy of the key features document 
(KFD) to support their view. Ive also seen a copy of the policy schedule and the terms and 
conditions for the whole of life policy and Im satisfied these documents make it reasonably 
clear the policy didnt have any life cover benefit. Instead the policy only provided serious 
illness and disability benefit. 
The KFD and policy schedule refer to a serious illness and disability benefit. Although mental 
illness is not noted in the serious illness section of the KFD, Im satisfied it goes on to explain 
a disability would be considered permanent if it lasted more than 12 months. There is a 
further section in the terms and conditions that explains specific mental illnesses likely to be 
excluded, but this doesnt apply in Mr Js case. 
Scottish Widows sent Mrs J and Mr J several review letters that had no reference to a death 
sum assured, and I consider these also made it reasonably clear the policy was only for 
serious illness or disability benefit cover.
Mrs J and Mr J say the Equality Act 2010 makes it clear that when dealing with mentally 
incapacitated customers, companies owe a higher duty of care. Mrs J and Mr J say that 
Scottish Widows failed to make reasonable adjustments and check for other polices they 
may have been able to claim on. The Equality Act 2010 didnt come into force until October 
2010, so the relevant legislation at the time of the potential claim would have been the 
Disability Discrimination Act 1995. This also set a duty for service providers to make 
reasonable adjustments. Ive taken both the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 and the 
Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given they were the relevant 
laws at the time of the claim and for some of the time the whole of life policy remained in 
force  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Scottish Widows says that in 2007 it wasnt possible for it to identify policies held by 
customers if it received a claim on other policies. Scottish Widows says it now has systems 
in place to do so, but in 2007 it relied on the terms and conditions that placed the 
responsibility on a customer to make a claim. Scottish Widows accept the medical evidence 
it received in 2007 would have been enough for it to have paid out a claim for disability under 
the whole of life policy. But, even if this was the case, there was a waiting period of 12 
months before a claim could have been considered. Im satisfied theres no dispute that the 
mental health of Mr J would have been considered a disability, but Mrs J and Mr J didnt 
submit a claim on the whole of life policy. Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Scottish 
Widows to rely on Mrs J and Mr J making a claim on the whole of life policy. The terms and 
conditions of the policy explained how and when a claim could be made and what the cover 
was for. Mrs J and Mr J believed the policy only provided life cover, but I consider the 
documents Ive referred to made it reasonably clear what benefits the policy provided and 
that it was the responsibility of Mrs J and Mr J to make a claim.
The terms and conditions of the whole of life policy state that any claim for long term 
disability had a 12-month deferment period. Scottish Widows backdated the claim to 
November 2007 and didnt apply the 12-month deferral and I think this was fair and 
reasonable even though they didnt have to do this.
In their response to the investigation Mrs J and Mr J say the interest they are asking for is to 
compensate them for being without the sum assured and premiums they paid for 14 years. 
Mrs J and Mr J were sent review letters for this policy over the years and increased the level 
of premiums to maintain the cover. These letters made it reasonably clear the cover 
provided was for serious illness and disability and not life cover. As Mrs J and Mr J didnt 
make the claim at the time, or during the next 14 years, Im not persuaded it was an error 
made by Scottish Widows that resulted in Mrs J and Mr J being deprived of the proceeds of the claim for 14 years or that the premiums were paid for a further 14 years. 
My final decision
Ive decided the settlement Scottish Widows Limited has already paid Mr J and Mrs J is a fair 
and reasonable one in the circumstances of this case, and I wont be asking Scottish 
Widows Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman