DRN-3964869
Complaint
Mrs T has complained about a logbook loan Mobile Money Limited (Mobile Money) 
provided to her. 
She says affordability checks werent undertaken and her over-indebtedness wasnt 
considered.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs T and Mobile Money had told us. And she 
thought that Mobile Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt 
uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Mrs T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ts complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mobile Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Mobile Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs T could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mobile Money provided Mrs T with a logbook loan for £2,000.00 in April 2019. The loan had 
an APR of 189.90% and was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £223.63, which meant the 
total amount to be repaid was £4,187.34. 
Mobile Money says it agreed to Mrs Ts application after she provided evidence of her 
monthly income and details of her monthly expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a full credit search which it carried out on Mrs T. 
The information Mrs T provided about her income and expenditure showed shed be able to 
make the repayments she was committing to. Mobile Money says, in these circumstances it 
was reasonable to lend to Mrs T. 
On the other hand, Mrs T has said she was in financial difficulty and already over-indebted. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs T and Mobile Money have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Mrs Ts first loan with Mobile Money. The information provided suggests 
Mrs T was asked to evidence her income. And in terms of Mrs Ts expenditure, the credit 
search carried out does show that Mrs T had had previous difficulties with credit. However, 
Mobile Money conducted a line by line assessment of each and every entry on Mrs Ts credit 
file with her. 
Mrs T was asked about a county court judgement (CCJ) and she said that she was in the 
process of challenging this. She was also asked about another CCJ which was in someone 
elses name and she confirmed that she wasnt paying anything to this as it wasnt hers. 
Indeed having listened to the call Mrs T had plausible reasons for each of the entries she 
was questioned about. She also had a plausible explanation on the loan purpose too. So I 
dont think that it was a case of Mobile Money simply accepting an over optimistic 
declaration of her disposable here.
Furthermore, while Ive seen what Mrs T has said it being irresponsible to have provided a 
loan with payments that took up over 50% of a customers disposable income, it is not 
immediately apparent to me why this is the case, as this was Mrs Ts disposable income 
here not her actual monthly income. And this was what she had left over after a detailed 
assessment of her expenditure took place.
I accept Mrs Ts actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than she let on and 
I know that she did struggle to make payments months afterwards as a result of a change in 
circumstances. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that Mobile Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mrs T - 
it obtained enough information to be able to make an informed decision on whether to 
provide this loan, but it sounds like the information it was provided with might not have told 
the whole story. Nonetheless Mobile Money reasonably relied on this information and given 
the veracity of its checks and its lack of any previous history with Mrs T, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mobile Money to provide this loan.
So overall Im not persuaded that Mobile Money did act unfairly towards Mrs T given all the 
circumstances and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs T. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman