DRN-3459788
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited who were trading as Very 
(Shop Direct) irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt 
afford.
What happened
On 29 December 2014 Miss B applied for an account with Shop Direct. At that time, the 
account was opened as a cash upon order transaction account. On 19 January 2016 the 
account was applied to become a credit account and Miss B was given an initial credit 
limit of £600. The credit limit was increased three times until it reached £2000 in February 
2017. Subsequently, the account fell into arrears, had payment plans and was, 
eventually, sold to a third party debt collection agency in September 2019. 
Miss B complained to Shop Direct in 2021 to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Miss Bs complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Shop 
Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer, and considered the credit file again as 
well as Miss Bs management of the account with regard to credit limit increases. Its 
possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss B with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to 
think the initial credit limit and the subsequent credit limit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
would have been relatively modest. Ive also noted that the account itself was well managed 
largely throughout the credit increases. During the time of the credit increases, I have not 
seen evidence of missed payments and the payments were not all for the minimum amount. 
More widely, Miss Bs statements show income coming into the account each month. The 
bank statements also show that whatever Miss Bs other financial commitments were, the 
account was, through the times of the initial credit and the credit increases, well managed in 
general and the account remained in a positive balance. And where it wasnt a positive 
balance, the negative balance was small and short lived. 
And I have seen insufficient evidence of financial difficulties from those times to make me 
think that Shop Direct would have been put off providing reasonably modest credit on this 
account. And it seems that Miss B was not dealt with in an unreasonable way when the 
financial difficulties started to affect the account. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Miss B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss B was 
managing her account or what Shop Direct could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.  
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss B to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman