DRN-4108381
The complaint
Mr D holds a current account with Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo). He was the victim of fraud. The 
fraudsters contacted him by text and phone and persuaded him to transfer around £9,700 to 
them from his Monzo account. 
Mr D thinks that Monzo failed to protect him from the fraudsters. He wants it to refund him all 
the money he lost.
What happened
There is no doubt that Mr D was the victim of fraud. The fraudsters initially contacted him by 
text, claiming to be the security team of a well-known payment company. They said a large 
payment was about to leave his Monzo account and asked him to ring them. He called the 
number they gave him and they convinced him that someone else had hacked into his 
Monzo account. Mr D also had an account with another bank (the other bank) and the 
fraudsters told him that account had been hacked as well. 
The fraudsters had various details, such as partial account numbers, about Mr Ds accounts 
and convinced him they were genuine. They told him to move money into what they 
described as a safe holding account. He followed their instructions to: 
Transfer just under £4,000, in three transactions, from the other bank account to their 
account(s). Monzo was not directly involved in these transactions. 
Transfer just over £10,000, in three payments, from the other bank to Mr Ds Monzo 
account. The fraudsters seem to have done this as they thought the other bank had, 
or would, block direct payments to their account(s). 
Transfer just under £9,700, in eight payments from Mr Ds Monzo account to their 
accounts. 
Monzo has sent us a statement which shows the transactions the fraudsters persuaded Mr D 
to make. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of this statement. The transactions were as 
follows.
Transaction 
numberAmount Comments 
1 +£3,925.79 Deposit from the other bank
2 -£1,910.74 Payment to fraudsters
3 -£1,757.88 Payment to fraudsters
4 -£573.22 Payment to fraudsters. This payment overdrew the account
5 +£5,000.00 Deposit from the other bank
6 -£1,528.59 Payment to fraudsters
7 -£1.605.02 Payment to fraudsters
8 -£1,452.16 Payment to fraudsters
9 -£343.93 Payment to fraudsters. The payment overdrew the account 
10 +£1,234.00 Deposit from the other bank
11 -£520.26 Payment to fraudsters
The fraudsters asked for the money from transactions 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 to go to one 
account and for the money from transactions 9 and 11 to go to two different accounts. I 
understand that all three were overseas accounts. 
I dont have the exact time of transaction 1, but transactions 2 to 11 were all made within 
about 30 minutes of each other during normal office hours. I doubt that transaction 1 was 
significantly earlier. Mr D made all the payments through a debit card he held for the 
account, using Monzos mobile banking app. 
Mr D thought Monzo should have spotted the fraud and stopped the payments. As it didnt, 
he asked it to refund him all the money the fraudsters took and add some further 
compensation. 
Initially, Monzo declined to refund any money to Mr D. Mr D then brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into it. The investigator recommended that Monzo should 
refund half the value of transactions 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 (a total of £3,011.59) to Mr D and 
add interest. Monzo accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr D didnt. He 
thought he was entitled to a larger refund and asked for his case to be reviewed. So, it has 
come to me as an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no doubt that Mr D followed Monzos normal process when he made the payments. 
By doing so, he instructed Monzo to make them. I fully accept that he only did this because 
of the actions of the fraudsters, but he effectively authorised Monzo to make the payments. 
Frauds of this type are often called Authorised Push Payment (APP) frauds. 
While banks are normally expected to act on their customers instructions, APP fraud is a 
significant concern in the banking industry. At the time this fraud took place, I would have 
expected Monzo to be looking out for anything noticeably unusual in the transactions its 
customers were making. And if it saw anything unusual about a payment, or a pattern of 
payments, I would have expected it to check with the customer concerned before processing 
them. To expand on banks responsibility a bit more. In broad terms, the starting position in law is 
that financial firms, including banks, are expected to process payments and withdrawals that 
a customer authorises them to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider was good industry practice at the time, I consider Monzo should 
fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Ive looked at the way Mr D had been using his account and compared that to the 
transactions which took place during the fraud. Taken collectively, the pattern of transactions 
during the fraud was certainly unusual. 
The fraud took place in early April 2022. They were the first payments Mr D had made from 
his Monzo account since January 2002. They were also quite large for Mr D and to payee 
accounts he had not paid money to previously. So, I think Monzo should have spotted that 
the payments looked potentially fraudulent and taken steps to prevent them until it could 
contact Mr D. Had it done this, and given Mr D appropriate advice, hes told us that he 
wouldnt have sent any money to the fraudsters. In the circumstances, I accept Mr Ds word 
for this, I think he would have stopped authorising the payments. The critical question then 
becomes at what point Monzo should have intervened.
Although Mr D had not been using his account significantly, it was not fully dormant. So, I 
dont think Monzo could have spotted the fraud right from the start. It could have drawn 
various conclusions from the first deposit (transaction 1) and the first two payments out 
(transactions 2 and 3). However, by the time of transaction 4, I think things were looking 
suspicious, particularly as the payment would overdraw Mr Ds account and as far as I can 
tell he had not done this before. So, I think Monzo should have intervened at this point and 
alerted Mr D to the fraud. Had it done so, then for the reasons I gave earlier, I think Mr D 
would have stopped that transaction and all others. In other words, he would not have made 
payments represented by transactions 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 to the fraudsters. 
Whilst I think Monzo should have stepped in, I dont think that in this case its fair and 
reasonable for it to bear the full cost of the fraud from the point it should have intervened. 
Monzo has pointed out that it had previously sent Mr D information from its website on how 
to keep money safe from fraudsters and on fraud and staying safe online. I accept that it 
did this and so had taken some action to help Mr D avoid fraud himself. Although I 
acknowledge that the fraudsters were convincing, I also think that their instructions to Mr D 
were so unusual that he bears some responsibility for following them. There seem to have 
been several indicators that he was dealing with fraudsters. These include:
The unlikely situation of two accounts with two different banks being hacked at the 
same time. 
The different destination accounts the fraudsters used, without sound reason. (This 
pattern is not consistent with the idea of a safe holding account).The way in which the fraudsters asked Mr D to move some money from his other 
account direct to their accounts, and some to his Monzo account and then onto their 
accounts, again without sound reason.
I also understand that the text message the fraudsters sent to Mr D contained typing errors, 
which would not be expected from a professional company, and that the phone number they 
gave to him had no resemblance to the one used by the real payment company. Individually, 
none of these indicators on their own were sufficiently significant to alert Mr D. But they 
emerged at different stages of the fraud and collectively I think they pointed strongly to 
suspicious activity, which Mr D could have spotted for himself. 
Taking all these factors into account, I think its reasonable for Mr D and Monzo to equally 
share the losses from the payments Mr D sent to the fraudsters in transactions 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 
and 11, which comes to £3,011.59. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I think Monzo Bank Ltd was partly responsible for Mr Ds 
losses. Should Mr D accept this decision, then Monzo Bank Limited should put things right 
by: 
refunding £3,011.59 to Mr D, 
adding simple interest at an annual rate of 8% from the date of the fraud (3 April 
2022) until the date it makes the refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman