DRN-4495042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down their buildings
insurance claim and cancel their policy.
What happened
On 14 February 2022 Mr and Mrs D bought their property. On 23 February 2022, they took
out a buildings insurance policy with Aviva. Due to crack damage in their property, Mr and
Mrs D arranged for a structural inspection to take place on 17 March 2022. This found the
damage was due to structural movement, and it was thought this was because of the type of
soil on which the property was situated. The report said there was a significant risk of
movement in the future due to the compression and shrinkage of the soil, leading to
progressive subsidence.
Mr and Mrs D made a subsidence claim under the policy in May 2022. Aviva turned down
the claim because it said the damage had been present before the policy started. It issued a
final response on that basis.
Aviva later told Mr and Mrs D that it thought they hadnt answered a question about
subsidence accurately when taking out the policy. It advised them on 14 June 2022 that it
was cancelling the policy.
Unhappy with Avivas decision to turn down their claim and cancel their policy, Mr and Mrs D
brought a complaint to this Service. We have considered the complaint under two separate
cases.
Under the first case, our investigator concluded that it hadnt been fair for Aviva to rely on the
relevant policy terms to turn down the claim. Aviva disagreed with our investigator. However,
it accepted her outcome on the basis it could instead consider whether the claim should be
declined due to a misrepresentation when the policy was taken out.
Aviva went on to decline the claim due to the alleged misrepresentation, and so Mr and
Mrs D brought a further complaint to this Service  which is this second case Im considering
here.
Aviva said that Mr and Mrs D hadnt answered a question about subsidence correctly when
taking out the policy. Our investigator accepted that Mr and Mrs D had made a careless
misrepresentation about the property when taking out the policy. She therefore concluded
that Aviva didnt need to pay the claim. However, she recommended that Aviva return the
premium paid by Mr and Mrs D before Aviva had cancelled the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 November 2023. Heres what I said:
Misrepresentation
Aviva says that Mr and Mrs D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when taking out the policy. The relevant law for misrepresentation is The Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer
insurance contract.
Mr and Mrs D applied for the policy online. Ive therefore looked at what they were asked
when taking out the policy.
The website explained that in providing a quote, Aviva had made some assumptions. It then
provided a list of those assumptions and asked, Do you agree with these assumptions? and
Mr and Mrs D could answer either yes or no. It was made clear that reasonable care should
be taken to give full and accurate answers (and if not, Aviva could cancel or change the
policy, or refuse to pay a claim).
One of the assumptions said:
The home has not suffered from subsidence, heave or landslip damage
Aviva has confirmed that Mr and Mrs D selected yes to all the initial assumptions, including
the above. If they had answered no, then I see the quote couldnt continue for a property
that had suffered from subsidence, heave or landslip damage.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances to decide whether they could have
reasonably been expected to answer this differently.
Mr and Mrs D advised Avivas agent that they hadnt viewed the property before it was
purchased, and hadnt arranged any pre-purchase survey. They told the agent that, after
obtaining the keys, they first visited the property on 16 February 2022 and found various
areas of cracking within the property and distortions to the living room floor. They arranged
for builders to attend to do the repairs, but were advised to get a structural report.
Ive read the March 2022 structural report. This says the company was commissioned to
carry out an inspection to establish the causes of crack damage and significantly sloping
floors. The report highlighted numerous areas of crack damage, and said the property had
suffered from damage as a result of structural movement (which was foundation related). It
classified the damage as four, with zero being negligible and five being severe.
Given the level of damage identified in the March 2022 report, Im satisfied its reasonable to
conclude that this existed before the policy was taken out the month before. Some areas
where the crack damage was particularly noticeable in the photos contained in the report
were the bay window, living room ceiling, and in the conservatory.
I dont know when the builders attended the property and advised Mr and Mrs D to obtain a
structural report. However, as Mr and Mrs D had apparently visited the property on 16
February 2022, I think they would have been aware there was crack damage to the property
before the policy was taken out. Whilst they may have been hoping this wasnt anything
serious, they didnt know either way. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ds point that the sales
advertisement described the foundations as being solid. Nonetheless, I think a reasonable
person would have suspected there could be subsidence after seeing the damage,
particularly since a pre-purchase survey hadnt been done to confirm otherwise.
That being the case, it seems to me Mr and Mrs D shouldnt have answered yes to the
assumption about subsidence (which I find to have been clear) until investigations had taken
place and they knew whether or not the damage was indeed subsidence. I therefore find
they failed to take reasonable care and so there was misrepresentation.Ive also considered whether the misrepresentation would be considered qualifying for the
purposes of CIDRA. In other words, whether Aviva would have done something different if it
had known there was existing subsidence. As the quote could not continue if Mr and Mrs D
had answered no to the initial assumptions, Im satisfied Aviva wouldnt have offered the
policy to Mr and Mrs D.
However, although I agree with Aviva that Mr and Mrs D made a qualifying
misrepresentation, and that it would normally be able to avoid the policy and decline the
claim for this reason, I dont think that would be fair and reasonable here. Ill explain why.
Misrepresentation wasnt the initial reason that Aviva gave to Mr and Mrs D when turning
down their claim. The claim was turned down because Aviva said the damage had been
there before Mr and Mrs D had purchased the property and taken out the policy. It therefore
relied on the policy terms to turn down the claim. Aviva also cancelled the policy mid-term,
rather than avoiding it from the start.
Its not reasonable to tell consumers their claim is being turned down for one reason, only for
an insurer to later change its mind and rely on CIDRA to turn down the claim for
misrepresentation. Im satisfied that Aviva was aware, after receiving the March 2022 report,
that there was obvious crack damage to the property and that Mr and Mrs D had visited the
property before taking out the policy. Aviva therefore ought to have known that Mr and Mrs D
had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation about the subsidence at
that point.
So, by dealing with the claim and making a claims decision based on the policy terms, I find
that Aviva affirmed the contract and effectively waived its right to rely on the 
misrepresentation.
Policy terms
Under the first case, our investigator made an informal finding on Avivas decision to turn
down the claim by relying on the policy terms. She concluded that Avivas decision hadnt
been fair.
Aviva argued against this at the time, but then accepted our investigators findings on the
understanding it could turn down the claim and avoid the policy due to misrepresentation.
However, our investigator should have made it clear to Aviva that as it had already affirmed
the contract it couldnt go on to allege there had been a misrepresentation. Im satisfied that
if we had made this clear, then the matter would have been referred to an ombudsman at the
time. I therefore consider it appropriate for me to consider Avivas original decision to decline
the claim and policy cancellation as part of this case.
The policy says:
We wont pay for:

3. Events before the cover start date
anything which happened or circumstances likely to lead to a claim (such as a flood 
warning being issued for your home) that you were aware of before the cover under 
this policy started.
Ive already found that Mr and Mrs D were aware of the cracks to their property before taking
out the policy.Our usual approach to subsidence claims is that where damage is both historic and ongoing,
then the insurer should deal with damage caused during the term of the policy, even if the
movement started before the policy did. But if the only way the insurer can repair new
damage which it is liable for is to also repair older existing damage, then it should also repair
the older damage.
However, I dont think itd be reasonable to require Aviva to do so here. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied, on balance, that the subsidence damage identified in the March 2022 report
was historic damage and predated the start of the policy. I say that because only around
three weeks had passed between the date the policy was taken out and the date of the
inspection.
Mr and Mrs D didnt make a claim until 3 May 2022. By the time Aviva assessed the claim,
further damage had apparently occurred at the property. In May 2022, Mr and Mrs Ds
neighbour had arranged for someone to put up a support due to falling plaster from their bay
window. Then in early June 2022, Mr and Mrs D reported further cracks, wall movement, and
roof tiles slipping.
The policy says:
What you need to do
As soon as youre aware of something thats likely to lead to a claim you must:

contact us as soon as you reasonably can and give us all the information and 
help we need to settle your claim
It seems to me that if Mr and Mrs D had reported the subsidence to Aviva as soon as they
had received the March 2022 report, then the claim would have been assessed and a claims
decision likely made in April 2022 (as well as the policy cancelled). As no further damage
was reported before this, then there would have been no new subsidence damage for Aviva
to deal with. In other words, no damage would have occurred whilst the Aviva policy was in
force.
So I find that it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the above exclusion to turn down the
claim.
Cancellation of policy
Ive also considered Avivas decision to cancel the policy in June 2022.
The policy says:
During the life of your policy you need to tell us about any changes to the 
information youve given us
And
When you tell us about a change we will tell you if this affects your policy (for 
example if we can no longer offer cover or if we need to change your premium).
Mr and Mrs D did comply with this ongoing duty of disclosure as they told Aviva when they
learnt that there had been subsidence. Though this was via a claim being made, rather than
advising Aviva that the previous information given to it about there being no subsidence was
wrong.Aviva has provided evidence, by way of a statement from its underwriter, that it wasnt
prepared to continue to offer cover because the property had suffered structural damage
which wasnt repaired. Given that subsidence which is not stabilised can continue to cause
significant damage to a property, I think its reasonable to say there had been a fundamental
change to the risk here.
The policy that Mr and Mrs D took out was designed to cover unknown risks. But if Aviva had
kept the policy in force, this would have been in the knowledge that it would need to deal
with the future new damage that would most likely occur, and as a result, may well have to
put right the historic damage too. Taking into account the unusual circumstances of this
case, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to cancel the policy.
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs D, but I dont intend to uphold this
complaint.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Aviva didnt provide any further comments. 
Mr and Mrs D responded with the following main points:
No physical or digital risk assessment was carried out by Aviva within the 14-day 
period. They think Aviva failed in its responsibilities by not doing a check on the 
house and they say Aviva was aware the area was a known hotspot for 
subsidence. They also think the onus falls on an insurer to perform a risk function 
check on the property and area.
With the contents of a subsidence report, Aviva failed to do an assessment on 
the policy and kept it running. As Aviva didnt take appropriate action and cancel 
the policy when it became aware of the historic subsidence, they should be 
covered for any ongoing damage.
They answered the question about subsidence honestly as the house was 
advertised as having a strong foundation. 
They say the policy term that Aviva relied upon to turn down their claim doesnt 
apply, and that subsidence is not something that happened as its an ongoing 
issue.
The policy only says the insured should contact Aviva as soon as they 
reasonably can when theyre aware of something thats likely to lead to a claim, 
and doesnt give a specific timeframe.
As Aviva failed to carry out its administrative duties with regards to risk 
assessment on multiple occasions, this kept the policy active for subsidence 
claims.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive only summarised the points Mr and Mrs D have made in response to my provisional 
decision. Thats not intended as a discourtesy, it merely reflects the informal nature of this 
Service. Ive addressed Mr and Mrs Ds points below:
Mr and Mrs D have said Aviva didnt carry out a risk assessment within 14 days. I 
assume theyre referring to the 14-day cooling off period after the policy started. To 
be clear, I wouldnt expect an insurer to carry out a risk assessment after a policy is 
taken out. An insurer assesses the risk presented to it based on the answers given 
by an applicant when applying for the policy. So Aviva would have been reliant on 
what Mr and Mrs D told it about the property when they took out the policy. An 
insurer isnt required to carry out an assessment to check the information it has been 
given by an applicant is true.
Aviva kept the policy running after it learnt of the subsidence because Mr and Mrs D 
had made a subsidence claim, rather than inform Aviva the information theyd 
provided when taking out the policy was incorrect. After Aviva assessed the claim, it 
cancelled the policy when it realised the subsidence predated the cover. 
Mr and Mrs D disagree with me that they answered the question about subsidence 
incorrectly. I wont repeat my findings on this. In any event, Ive concluded that Aviva 
cant rely on misrepresentation to turn down the claim. 
I remain satisfied that the policy term Aviva relied on to turn down the claim does 
apply here. The policy covers loss or damage to the buildings caused by a number of 
insured perils, including subsidence.  However, the evidence supports that the 
subsidence damage identified in the March 2022 report happened before the policy 
was taken out. 
I dont require Aviva to cover the ongoing damage caused to the property. Although 
the policy doesnt give a timeframe in which to tell Aviva when the insured becomes 
aware of something thats likely to lead to a claim, it does say this should be done as 
soon as the insured reasonably can. It took Mr and Mrs D nearly six weeks to tell 
Aviva about the subsidence after they received the report. I explained in my 
provisional decision that I thought Mr and Mrs D ought to have reported the 
subsidence to Aviva sooner than they did, and if that had happened, then the claim 
would have likely been turned down and policy cancelled before any further damage 
occurred. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that it was appropriate, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, for Aviva to turn down the claim and cancel the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman