DRN-4027653
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly applied interest to 
his credit card balance.
 What happened
Mr C opened a new credit card with Virgin Money that came with a 0% promotional interest 
rate for balance transfers. Part of the agreement with Mr C was that the promotional interest 
rate would be withdrawn if payments were not made or were made late. 
Mr C transferred around £5,000 to the credit card and made manual payments to cover the 
amounts due. But Mr Cs explained he experienced problems accessing Virgin Moneys 
mobile app so wasnt always able to access information about his account or make 
payments. 
On 24 April 2022 Virgin Money issued a statement that said Mr C needed to make a 
minimum payment of £50.97 by 15 May 2022. Mr Cs explained he had problems accessing 
the mobile app which meant his payment was delayed until 16 May 2022, a day after the due 
date. As a result of the payment not being received by the due date, the next monthly 
statement issued by Virgin Money on 24 May 2022 shows interest became due against the 
outstanding balance. The May 2022 statement said Mr C needed to make a payment of 
£140.93 by 13 June 2022. A payment of £145.86 was made by Mr C on 27 June 2022. 
In August 2022 Mr C called Virgin Money to query why his payment had gone up. The agent 
Mr C spoke with explained that the payments hed made werent in line with the requests 
made in the statements issued each month. Mr C explained hed experienced issues using 
the mobile app to access his account for several months and that had impacted his ability to 
make payments and review statements. 
Mr C asked Virgin Money to reinstate his balance transfer promotion but the agent advised 
they couldnt do that. The agent said Mr C could raise a complaint and Virgin Money would 
look at whether the promotional interest rate could be reinstated and gave timescales for 
how long the process normally takes. During the call, the agent checked whether Mr C was 
able to make the August 2022 payment. Mr C responded and said that if the promotional 
balance transfer rate wasnt reinstated hed move the balance to another credit card 
provider. 
Virgin Money responded to Mr Cs complaint on 15 November 2022. Virgin Money didnt 
agree it had made a mistake by withdrawing the promotional interest rate. Virgin Money 
apologised for the delay in responding to Mr Cs complaint and offered him £50. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They thought Virgin Money had 
dealt with Mr Cs case fairly and didnt as it to do anything else. Mr C asked to appeal and 
reiterated that problems accessing the mobile app had impacted his ability to review 
statements and make payments on time. As Mr C asked to appeal his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Virgin Moneys advised that when a payment is made later than the agreed due date any 
promotional interest rates applied to the credit card are removed. In this case, Virgin Money 
issued a statement via its mobile app on 24 April 2022 that said Mr C needed to make a 
payment by 15 May 2022. Mr Cs explained hes experienced ongoing problems with the 
mobile app over the course of several months. As a result, Mr C advised he was unable to 
make a payment by 15 May 2022 but made one the following day when able to do so. 
I understand Mr C may not have always been able to access his mobile app. But Virgin 
Moneys provided systems evidence that shows he successfully logged into his mobile app 
on six occasions between 9 May 2022 and 13 May 2022. So whilst I accept Mr C may have 
experienced technical issues at times, Im satisfied he was able to access his account in the 
run up to the payment due on 15 May 2022. And if Mr C had been unable to make a 
payment by the due date he had the option of calling Virgin Money and raising the difficulties 
he was experiencing accessing the mobile app and making a payment. 
Mr Cs next payment was due on 13 June 2022. But no payment was made until 27 June 
2022. Again, I understand Mr C mayve found problems when trying to access the mobile 
app. But Virgin Moneys got no records of any contact from Mr C during this time. And if Mr 
C was unable to access his account or unaware of what payments were due he had the 
option of contacting Virgin Money directly.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but as his payments werent received by Virgin Money on time, 
Im satisfied it fairly withdrew the promotional interest rate for balance transfers. 
Ive listened to Mr Cs call with Virgin Money on 4 August 2022, when he first asked about 
the interest Virgin Money had charged. During the call, Mr C asked the agent to reinstate the 
promotional interest rate. But the agent explained they couldnt do that. The agent said the 
only way the promotional interest rate could be reinstated was if Mr C raised a complaint and 
the issues were investigated. But I didnt hear the agent give any assurances the 
promotional interest rate would be reinstated, only that a complaint could be raised to look 
into it. In addition, during the call Mr C advised that if the promotional interest rate hadnt 
been reinstated by the August 2022 due date he would move the outstanding balance to 
another credit card. 
Having listened to the call Mr C had with Virgin Money, I havent been persuaded it was 
handled unfairly or that incorrect advice was provided. And Im satisfied Mr C was aware that 
interest was being applied to the balance and that he had the option of moving it to another 
credit card provider. 
Virgin Moneys final response apologised for the delay in responding and offered Mr C £50. 
Im satisfied thats a fair resolution to Mr Cs complaint. As Im satisfied Virgin Money dealt 
with Mr Cs complaint fairly Im not asking it to take any further action. My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman