DRN-2360599
The complaint
Mr P had a motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited in 2019. 
Hes represented by a named driver on the policy (Mr P2) who says Advantage made the 
wrong decision about liability for an accident that year. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr P2 reported an accident to Advantage that he said was caused by 
another driver. He said she drove into his car whilst he was carrying out a parallel parking 
manoeuvre. The other driver later said that Mr P2 had suddenly and without warning collided 
with her car. Advantage told Mr P2 when he reported the claim that he wasnt likely to be 
held at fault for the accident. But later it changed its stance, given the circumstances of the 
accident and the damage to the cars. Mr P2 said Advantage had misunderstood the 
sketches of the accident hed drawn to show what happened.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. He noted that Mr P2s first sketch of the 
accident showed his car was moving at the time of the incident. He said as the onus of 
responsibility is on a driver making a manoeuvre, it was fair for Advantage to conclude that 
he was at fault. But Mr P2 had drawn a second sketch that showed his car was stationary at 
the time of the impact. Advantage still held him at fault, as it thought the damage to the cars 
was more consistent with his first account. 
The investigator didnt think the photos supplied by Mr P2 of the aftermath of the accident 
were conclusive. He thought Advantage could have tried to get a 50:50 split on liability - 
although he pointed out that Mr P2 would still have had a fault claim on his record. He 
thought it was reasonable that Advantage had paid Mr P2 £75 for failing to tell him promptly 
that it had accepted fault for the accident. 
Mr P2 said he thought the fact that he didnt make a claim had an impact on the decision to 
hold him at fault  and he pointed out that his witness wasnt interviewed. He queried why he 
was advised to complete a second sketch if the first one was going to be relied on. He said 
the other driver knew he was going to park because he had stopped and put his indicator on. 
And he queried why Advantage had paid him £75 if it had done nothing wrong.
The investigator said that as the witness was a friend of Mr P2, he wasnt classed as 
independent. He said it was fair for Advantage to consider the change in Mr P2s version of 
events before making a decision on liability. And he said the £75 was paid to make up for the 
error Advantage accepted it had made in not advising Mr P2 of the liability decision. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already pointed out, we dont decide which party was liable for an 
accident. Instead, we consider how an insurer dealt with the situation and whether it acted 
reasonably in making its decision about whether to accept liability or defend the claim. 
The policy gave Advantage the right to decide how to settle the matter. We only interfere 
with an insurers decision if we think it didnt consider all the relevant evidence - or reached a 
perverse conclusion, bearing in mind that evidence. I dont think thats the case here. 
 
Ive listened to the call during which Mr P2 reported the accident to Advantage. He said the 
other car drove into him as he was turning into the parking bay. He didnt say his car was 
stationary. The sketch he provided at the time appeared to show that he was part-way 
through his manoeuvre when the impact happened. But his later sketch shows his car was 
stationary, in the middle of the road (a one-way street, with vehicles parked on either side) 
when the other car hit it.
Advantage couldnt be sure what happened, as there was no independent evidence. So it 
had to make a decision based on the available information. The other driver said Mr P2 had 
reversed suddenly, without warning. And it thought the damage to the cars was more in line 
with that account than with Mr P2s second account. Only the front drivers-side corner of the 
other drivers car was damaged. The damage to Mr P2s car was to the passenger-side rear.
I can see why Advantage thought damage in those areas of the cars was more likely to have 
happened if Mr P2 was reversing. Had his car been stationary (in the middle of the one-way 
street, prior to reversing - in line with his second sketch) a driver hitting it from behind is 
more likely to have caused damage to the centre rear of Mr P2s car and to the centre-front 
of their own car. In addition, Mr P2s first verbal account of events suggested that his first 
sketch  showing his car manoeuvring - was more accurate than the second one. 
Mr P2 took photos at the scene after the accident. One of them shows a car parked in the 
middle of the road. Mr P2 has explained that it was his friends car  the friend having left the 
parking space so Mr P2 could enter it, with the intention that both of them would then drive 
away in the friends car. On the photo, the other car involved in the accident is shown level 
with the parking space Mr P2 intended to reverse into. Mr P2 must have moved his car 
slightly forward before taking the photo, as the two cars are no longer touching, but the angle 
of its wheels suggests his car had started to move into the parking space before the impact.
Mr P2 is sure that if Advantage had defended the claim in court a judge would have found in 
his favour. That may be the case, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Advantage to take 
a different view. Insurers have great experience of dealing with liability disputes. They dont 
usually defend a claim unless they think theres a reasonable prospect of success in court. 
We think thats fair, especially given the costs involved.
In this case, Advantage didnt think it would be able to show that the other driver caused the 
accident. If Mr P2 was reversing, the onus was on him to be sure it was safe to do so. He 
couldnt show the car was stationary, with its indicator on, when his car was hit. Advantage 
didnt think the evidence showed he was waiting to start the manoeuvre when the impact 
happened. I dont think its decision was unreasonable and I dont think theres any basis for  
assuming that Mr P2s decision not to make a claim had any impact on it.
Mr P2 wasnt happy that Advantage advised him to complete a second sketch if it was going 
to rely on the first one anyway. But I think as Mr P2 said hed made a mistake in drawing the 
first diagram, it was fair for Advantage to give him the chance to correct it. But it had to 
review all the information it had - and it couldnt disregard the first sketch - especially when it 
was in line with other evidence. Mr P2 queried how much was paid out on the claim and was unhappy that a personal injury 
claim was made by the other driver, when the impact was minimal, and he was sure she 
wasnt hurt. The cost of the claim is unlikely to have any adverse effect, as its having a fault 
claim on a policy (regardless of the sum paid out) that will cause future premiums to rise. 
And it isnt in an insurers interests to pay out any more than it has to pay. The file shows 
that the other insurer provided engineering evidence of the cost of repairs to the other 
drivers car  and it also provided a report from a medical expert setting out her injuries. 
  
I think Advantage could have sought further details about the accident from the other driver, 
but in my opinion, the evidence it had was sufficient to allow it to make a fair decision. I also 
think it acted reasonably in paying Mr P2 £75 for not letting him know that it had accepted 
liability. As I dont think it did anything substantially wrong, I cant uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman