DRN-3499467
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S have complained that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) unfairly declined 
a claim and cancelled their home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B and Mr S found damp in a bedroom and contacted Soteria to make a claim. Soteria 
assessed the claim and declined it, as it said there wasnt evidence to show the damp was 
the result of an insured one-off event. Soteria also cancelled the policy as it said Miss B and 
Mr S had been abusive to its staff.
When Miss B and Mr S complained, Soteria confirmed that following a review of the 
evidence, it hadnt been able to attribute the damage to a single one-off event. It said the 
onus was now on Miss B and Mr S to prove the claim. Soteria also said it had cancelled the 
policy due to Miss B and Mr Ss behaviour towards staff. It said a refund would be issued of 
the premium paid, less a charge for the time on cover.
So, Miss B and Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said Soteria had investigated the claim and it was reasonable for it to assess that there 
wasnt evidence to show the damage was the result of a one-off insured event. She also said 
it was reasonable for Soteria to cancel the policy.
As Miss B and Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss B and Mr S previously complained to this service about Soterias handling of a claim. I 
will not be commenting on any of those issues. This decision will only focus on Soteria 
declining the more recent claim for the damp issues and whether it was reasonable for 
Soteria to cancel the policy.
Miss B and Mr S found staining in a bedroom they thought might be the result of an issue 
with boiler pipework at a neighbouring property. They said they first noticed the damage 
three or four months earlier but then said it might have been a few months before that. 
Soteria sent a surveyor. The surveyor assessed the damage and concluded there was an 
ingress of water and a dripping pipe externally, but that the pipe appeared to be lower than 
the internal damage in the property. The surveyor said it was unclear what would be causing 
the internal damage. Following this, Soteria declined the claim, as it assessed the damage 
couldnt be attributed to a one-off event.
Miss B and Mr S disagreed with the surveyors findings and provided a report from the 
company that had recently carried out repairs to their roof. This said they had re-inspected 
the roof work and not found any issues with it. Soteria sent another surveyor to assess the 
damage. The surveyor assessed that the rear bedroom staining to the mid-wall appeared to 
be in line with the neighbouring condensation pipe which had been leaking for a long period 
of time due to a faulty boiler or heat exchange unit. Over time, the water had penetrated the 
wall causing damp and staining to the papered walls. The damage to the top of the internal 
wall in the rear bedroom was assessed to be related to the faulty flashing, which had been 
recently replaced and repaired. The damage to the top of the front external wall was 
assessed to be the result of two possible issues, which were the gutters or issues with the 
neighbouring lead joints or the PVC-like membrane being used under the roof felt causing 
condensation.
Soteria declined the claim because it didnt identify a one-off insured event. Looking at the 
surveyors findings, these found a number of possible causes, including a leaking 
condensation pipe, issues with gutters and the roof membrane. So, I think Soteria 
investigated whether it was an insured event, including sending more than one surveyor and 
assessing additional evidence provided by Miss B and Mr S, and didnt identify any damage 
that was covered by the policy. 
As part of that, Im mindful that Miss B and Mr S have said they only became aware of the 
dripping pipe when it was pointed out to them by the roofer. I note that when Miss B and Mr 
S first contacted Soteria to open the claim, they said they thought the pipe might be the 
source of the damage. A short while later, the roofer then came out to reinspect their works 
and Ive read the email the roofer then sent saying the pipe was the likely cause. Im also 
aware that Miss B and Mr S said they had been aware of the damage for a number of 
months before contacting Soteria. So, Im not persuaded that Miss B and Mr S were 
unaware of the damage or its potential cause. Based on what Ive seen, I think it was 
reasonable for Soteria to decline the claim because it wasnt assessed to be a one-off 
insured event, as it was likely that it happened gradually and that Miss B and Mr S were 
aware of it.
Miss B and Mr S also complained that Soteria cancelled their policy. Soteria cancelled the 
policy because of their behaviour towards staff members. Ive seen evidence of some of 
those communications and I think it was reasonable for Soteria to take action in response. 
The policy allowed Soteria to cancel the policy in such circumstances and Im satisfied that it 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when it cancelled it.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Soteria to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman