DRN-2435374
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) handling of a claim 
he made on his insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr L bought a new television for his home. In July, he took out an additional 
warranty with D&G. In June 2020, Mr L noticed a problem with the screen and contacted 
D&G to claim for a fault with the television. 
D&G sent engineers out to inspect the television. They identified it needed a new screen, so 
D&G decided to try to carry out the repair, rather than replace the television. However, 
several weeks later, D&G decided to offer Mr L a replacement, as it had become clear that a 
repair wasnt viable due to the difficulties in obtaining a replacement screen from the 
manufacturer. 
Mr L was unhappy with how long it took D&G to make this decision. Mr L was also 
concerned about accepting a replacement, which D&G had identified was available in a local 
high street shop. He believed the model had a design fault which was why it had been 
discontinued. Mr L also said the alternatives offered by D&G werent of the same 
specification as the one he had, so he wanted a cash settlement equivalent to the amount he 
paid for the television. 
D&G said it tried to repair the television. It says it offered a loan television to Mr L so he and 
his family would be able to watch something, which he declined. It also says that it covered 
the cost of uninstalling the television, and this wouldnt normally be covered. It also made a 
payment of £50 in recognition of an administration error which delayed Mr L being able to 
register his claim. 
D&G says it offered Mr L two options. It would either pay him Mr L £6,999, which was the 
cash equivalent of similar makes and model to Mr Ls television. Alternatively, Mr L could 
have a television of his choice, but he would have to pay the upgrade fee. Mr L accepted the 
cash settlement but asked this service to look into his complaint.  
One of our investigators looked into what happened but he felt D&G had acted fairly. As a 
result, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my conclusion, Ive started by considering what the policy is required to provide. 
It says: 
Breakdown (after the manufacturers guarantee)
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option) authorise a
repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement product
D&G offered Mr L a replacement set, which he declined saying it didnt match the exact 
specification of the set that was faulty. But the offers it made were the nearest available 
specification. They also offered Mr L a direct replacement when it was available, but Mr L 
declined this. 
So D&G subsequently offered Mr L two more options  he could pay an upgrade price for his 
chosen television set, or accept a cash settlement. Im satisfied all the options D&G made 
available to Mr L were in line with the policy terms. 
Mr L chose a cash settlement but is unhappy with the value of the cash settlement hes been 
given. However, the technology market moves quickly, and costs can decrease rapidly as 
newer technologies emerge or existing technologies advance. So, I cant say that D&G acted 
unfairly in offering Mr L a cash settlement that was lower than the figure he paid for the 
television. I know Mr L feels he should get a cash settlement equivalent to the amount he 
paid for the television, but I cant see that the policy requires D&G do this. It follows, Im not 
going to require it to increase the cash settlement its already made. 
Ill turn now to the compensation paid by D&G. I think this is a fair reflection of the frustration 
Mr L experienced as a result of administration issues which caused a delay in him 
registering his claim. And while I know Mr L has continued to be frustrated by the situation, I 
think D&G have acted fairly in the options it has presented to him. And therefore Im not 
going to require D&G to increase the compensation payment made. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman