DRN-3480304
The complaint
Mr J and Miss W complain about the quality of a car they have been financing through an 
agreement with First Response Finance Ltd (First Response).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J and Miss W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J and Miss W acquired their car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then First 
Response, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr J and Miss W. The car here 
was nearly twelve years old and had already completed in excess of 83,000 miles. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when First Response were responsible for the 
cars quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Im persuaded First Response have 
provided sufficient evidence that most of the faults reported in the health check are related to 
wear and tear and would be expected on a car of this age and mileage.
I say that because the expert independent engineer has said so. His report provides a 
comprehensive view on the issues identified in the health check. Its his view that the car 
would have been in a satisfactory condition when it was supplied. He thinks the corrosion 
that is present is commensurate for a car of this age and he thinks the brakes are also in an 
acceptable condition. He comments on the health checks suggestion the brake pipework is 
incorrect and concludes it has been completed to acceptable MOT standards. He also thinks 
the brake pipes, ferrules and hoses are in an adequate condition.
The independent engineer suggested a rumbling from the car was likely to be from the 
transmission or brakes and he thought that needed further investigation.
First Response have offered to inspect the car and find the source of the rumbling. The 
relevant legislation allows them an opportunity to repair a fault that is present at the point of 
supply so Id expect that if that investigation reveals anything that was likely to have been 
present or developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr J and Miss W; they will repair 
it.
Im not therefore persuaded that First Response have done anything wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman