DRN-1861620
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) failed to cancel a standing order for his 
rent as he requested.
What happened
Mr M visited a branch of Santander asking for all payments on his account to be cancelled 
apart from an insurance payment. On receiving his bank statement he saw that the standing 
order for his rent of £700 had been paid which put him in a difficult financial position. He 
complained to Santander that this should have been cancelled.
Santander say that when Mr M came into the branch the member of staff went through his 
bank account payments and recall him asking for this standing order to remain in place . Mr 
M was unhappy with their response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator gathered all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said Santander had acted fairly and had discussed all the active mandates on the account 
with him. The investigator felt that if Santander were told to cancel the standing order then 
they would have acted on these instructions. She felt that Santander hadnt done anything 
wrong. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for this to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Mr M says that when he visited the branch of Santander he asked for all payments to be 
cancelled, apart from one for his insurance. Santander in their final response letter says the 
following:
J  can then recall advising that there was one other Standing Order active and she was 
advised to keep this in place. As a result, the Standing Order was left on the account. J also 
confirmed that when she makes any amendments to mandates on an account, she will then 
confirm with the customer what is remaining.
But, during a phone call to this service, a team member of Santander, said that when she 
questioned the member of staff at the branch, they didnt think they looked at the standing 
orders screen just the direct debits. 
This is important as it puts in doubt the comments made in the final response letter from 
Santander. 
On considering this point I cant see how, in the circumstances, Santanders member of staff 
could have asked  Mr M about leaving the standing order on the account if the standing 
order screen  wasnt accessed. 
I realise that this could be because Mr M said not to worry about that payment, as Santander 
says. But Mr M has been very clear that he asked for all payments to be stopped  which is supported by all the other payments made by direct debit that would relate to a property 
being cancelled. I think its most likely, on the evidence here, that Mr Ms request in the 
branch was for Santander to cancel all the payments he was making through his account, 
apart from the insurance payment he mentioned.
I did ask for further evidence to support Santanders final response and to clearly show that 
the standing order screen was accessed. I have made every attempt to try and interpret the 
internal screen shots references. These contain a list of direct debit mandates and their 
cancellation, but nothing to conclusively evidence the standing order mandate screen had 
been viewed by the member of staff or shown to Mr M. 
I can understand that in a busy branch its difficult for a member of staff to recall exactly what 
happened. But when a customer asks for all payments to be cancelled, I think its reasonable 
to take the view that this would include standing orders as well as direct debits. What has 
been shown here is the staff member, on questioning, couldnt be certain it was Mr M she 
recalled coming in to the branch or the screen for standing orders were viewed and shown to 
the customer.  
I wasnt at the branch at the time of the transaction and not all verbal instructions are clear 
and obvious, but I am satisfied that in all probability Mr M also wanted his rent payment  to 
be cancelled and these were the instructions he gave. 
It could be that print outs of his accounts were handed to him, but I havent seen anything to 
make me think this is the case either.
When considering what is fair to put things right here, Ive taken account of the fact the 
payment was for rent. Santander have mentioned in their final response to Mr M, that he was 
receiving statements sent to the address that he said he was being evicted from. In my view, 
this point seems to imply Santander might feel that it doesnt follow he would wish to have 
cancelled the rent payment. 
But Mr M has confirmed that when he asked Santander to cancel the payments, he was 
doing so as he wanted to leave the property and to use the £700 to pay a deposit for another 
place to live. He has told us that he did leave the property at this time too. 
It may be the case that this money was due as a part of his rental arrangements, or not. 
Thats not for me to decide. But, I think that as a result ,Im persuaded it was most likely a 
mistake by Santander, Mr M was deprived of £700 that he otherwise would have had, were it 
not for this mistake. That money would then have been his to choose to spend (or not) as he 
wished.
So, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, Im think its fair that Santander gives 
this back to him. Its also clear that this situation caused Mr M a fair amount of upset and 
inconvenience. He was deprived of money he wanted to use as a deposit for a new place to 
stay and has said that his housing situation has been uncertain since then. This mistake 
wont have helped at a difficult time, so I think its fair that Santander pays him £100 as 
compensation for the impact it had.
Both Mr M and Santander accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As both sides have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no need to change or add to 
this and so my final decision remains the same.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint.
I instruct Santander UK plc to refund Mr M £700 and 8% interest on this sum from the date 
the standing order was debited to his account until the date this final decision is accepted. 
On top of this Santander should make a compensation payment for Mr Ms inconvenience 
and upset of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman