DRN-4156573
The complaint
Miss Z complains about a loan Lloyds Bank PLC lent her in May 2019. To put things right, 
she wants Lloyds to write off the loan.
What happened
Miss Z complained to Lloyds about how she was treated in financial difficulties and that 
Lloyds lent her a loan. Her complaint covers a few other issues shes unhappy with Lloyds 
about and those complaints are dealt with separately and I wont go into all the issues here. 
This decision will only deal with Lloyds decision to lend Miss Z a loan for £900 in May 2019.
Miss Z also told Lloyds she was unhappy with the way her complaints were handled, Lloyds 
apologised for this and offered her £30 for the trouble that caused her. Lloyds didnt think it 
did anything wrong went it lent the loan. 
Our adjudicator looked at what both parties said. She concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted 
unfairly when it agreed to lend to Miss Z. Miss Z didnt agree with our adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information Ive seen, Miss Z had an overdraft with Lloyds she was struggling to 
repay. Miss Z was in financial difficulties and Lloyds had agreed a temporary repayment plan 
to assist her.
I can see that before Lloyds agreed to lend this loan to Miss Z, it had given her other options 
to help in her financial difficulties, like freezing interests and agreeing a temporary 
repayment plan. It also carried out an income and expenditure exercise, looking at Miss Zs 
income and her outgoings.
Those checks showed Miss Z had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayment 
of a little over £19. It was clear that Miss Z was in financial difficulties at the time of the loan 
and Lloyds was aware of this. It also knew it needed to treat her fairly in financial difficulties.
Lloyds showed Miss Z forbearance and then took steps to refinance her overdraft debt into a 
loan, which from the reasonable checks Lloyds carried out, Miss Z could repay.
I appreciate Miss Z says she has continued to struggle with dealing with the debt and has 
suffered bereavement, but at the time Lloyds consolidated her overdraft debt into this loan, it 
didnt act unfairly. It was aware of her financial circumstances when it lent, and I think its 
decision to make her debt manageable was taken having due regards for her financial 
circumstances. Lloyds checks at the time showed Miss Z could afford the loan repayment.
Id remind Lloyds to continue treating Miss Z positively and sympathetically in her financial 
difficulties and show forbearance. Having thought about all the issues in this case, I dont 
think Lloyds has treated Miss Z unfairly. 
It follows I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further. I appreciate my findings will likely 
disappoint Miss Z and while I understand shes been through a difficult time, based on the 
information Ive seen I dont think Lloyds has been unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman