DRN-3632526
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not provided a reasonable method for him to 
pay his credit card debt while living in America.   
What happened
Mr W says that he has been trying to find a way to pay his credit card off in full since May 
2021. He says that his bank in America, which Ill refer to as Bank A, informed him he had to 
open a specific type of account with additional requirements in order to pay off the credit 
card account. As a result, hes been unable to pay his monthly credit card payments 
meaning he has incurred late fees and his credit file has been affected. 
HSBC UK gave Mr W the option of paying using their international payment details, which 
they say can be provided to any bank inside or outside of America that is able to make 
international payments. It also gave him the option of writing off his outstanding balance on 
the credit card account, as well as on his separate current account, and correcting his credit 
file so there is no impact reflecting the late fees. 
Mr W was unhappy with this as he felt the international payment option had not worked 
previously and he wanted a way of making payments in future. He was also unhappy it had 
been suggested that his credit card account be closed as he still wanted use of it. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt that HSBC UK had acted fairly in the 
circumstances. She explained that HSBC UK had provided a method of making payments 
while overseas and this was set out on the credit card statements. And they also offered to 
put him back in the position he would have been in had the payments been made on time. 
She also explained that we could not consider the actions of Bank A because this complaint 
was against HSBC UK and they were two separate banks. 
Mr W disagreed with this. As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me for a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that HSBC has acted reasonably and I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Mr Ws complaint is that he had been unable to pay his credit card balance at a Bank A 
branch. But as previously explained, this complaint is against HSBC UK and their actions. 
From what I can see, HSBC UK clearly sets out options to pay a credit card balance if you 
are overseas and this can be found on the reverse of Mr Ws credit card statement. This 
provides the account details with which to send the payments to and explains the necessary 
process. This also gives the option to send a cheque to a postal address. I think this 
information is clear and I think HSBC has acted reasonably in giving these options. I 
appreciate that Mr W has said he had issues making the payment at his Bank A branch, but I 
dont think this is because of anything HSBC UK has done. 
In addition to this, when Mr W raised a complaint with HSBC UK, they gave him an 
additional option. Which was to clear the outstanding balance, including any late fees that 
hadnt already been refunded, and amend his credit file so that it no longer reflected any late 
payments to the account. I think this was more than fair as it put Mr W back in the position 
he would have been in had he made all his payments on time. As I dont think HSBC UK has 
made an error in this circumstance, this is more than I would have expected them to do. 
HSBC UK has said the offer to write off the debt on both of Mr Ws accounts and correct his 
credit file is still available to him. If Mr W would like to accept this, he should contact HSBC 
UK directly to arrange this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. If Mr W would like to accept 
HSBC UK Bank Plcs gesture of goodwill to clear the debt on both his accounts and correct 
his credit file, he should contact them directly.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman