DRN-3235703
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim on their home insurance policy which was turned 
down by Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros.
All references to Ocaso include its appointed agents.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs B noticed water escaping from their kitchen sink. They 
made a claim under their home insurance and Ocaso appointed a loss adjuster to 
inspect the cause of damage to the pipe. Ocaso turned the claim down as it said the 
policy didnt cover damage due to any gradually operating cause and it said there 
was no evidence that the issue was linked to an insured event under the policy.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy about this and complained to Ocaso.
Ocaso didnt respond to Mr and Mrs B so they brought their complaint to our service.
After investigating, our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld 
because they were persuaded that Ocaso had applied the gradually operating cause 
exclusion unfairly. They concluded the pipes loss of function could be considered as 
damage. And they didnt find the damage could be considered gradual as                  
Mr and Mrs B werent aware of the problem until water began to back up and escape 
from their kitchen sink. So, they recommended Ocaso reconsider the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators findings. Ocaso didnt respond, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Ocasos expert report says there is no evidence that the drain has suffered any 
damage or breakage on a set date and the miss [sic] alignment of the pipe would 
appear to be a gradual action over the life of the installation.
Our services approach is that a pipes loss of function can be considered as 
damage. And the circumstances show that the alignment of the pipe and blockage 
were contributing to the loss of function.
Accidental damage in Mr and Mrs Bs policy is defined as An unintentional and 
unexpected one off incident that causes damage to your buildings or contents. 
I havent seen anything in Mr and Mrs Bs policy which excludes this type of damage 
through loss of function. And Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B werent reasonably aware 
there was an incident until water in the sink backed up and overflowed. So, Im 
persuaded that they took reasonable action in letting Ocaso know as soon as they 
did become aware of the problem. Therefore, I agree that the gradually operating 
cause exclusion has been applied unfairly here.
Mr and Mrs B have fairly shown that there is Accidental damage to the pipe which is 
covered under their policy. And in any event, Ocaso has been given a reasonable 
opportunity to challenge our investigators findings but hasnt. So, I would expect it to 
deal with Mr and Mrs Bs claim promptly and fairly moving forwards. 
Ocaso must reconsider the claim, subject to any remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint, Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros must:
Reconsider the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman