DRN-3354175
The complaint
Mr N complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank has not 
met its obligations in regard to a transaction he made on his credit card to get out of a 
Timeshare agreement.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr N had a Timeshare type agreement which he wanted to get out of. Around 
that time he came into contact with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services and it could get him out of the timeshare agreement for a fee. Ill 
call this Firm A. Mr N paid, using his M&S credit card, £2446 to get out of the Timeshare. 
Mr N says he didnt pay any more and he says he never received any services or refund 
from Firm A. So he complained to M&S in 2019.
M&S considered the matter and decided that it didnt have any liability in these 
circumstances and told Mr N it wouldnt be giving him any refund in relation to the money he 
had paid.
Mr N feels this is unfair, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
considered the matter but found that M&S hadnt treated him unfairly in its handling of the 
matter. Mr N still hasnt had his money back and is still unhappy and accordingly this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm A or other firms Mr N dealt 
with in his efforts to extricate himself from the Timeshare. This is because these companies 
arent within the jurisdiction of this service. It is solely about what M&S did or didnt do in 
relation to its obligations under certain legislation. And it should be remembered M&S are 
only involved in this issue because it manages Mr Ns credit card account which he used to 
make this transaction.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr N his complaint 
about M&S fails. I shall explain why. There are two possible avenues for M&S in such 
disputes. Either contesting the transactions under the Chargeback process operated by the 
card scheme or by it being liable under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
could M&S challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr N 
does here, M&S (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme (which isnt M&S here).
I dont think M&S couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr N didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given that Mr N freely accepts he made it as payment of deposit 
for the service due from Firm A using his M&S credit card. And Im not persuaded it has 
been wrongly applied to his account.
The Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be raised to 
challenge disputed transactions. The rules are clear on these timeframes and I can see that 
between when Mr N made the transaction in 2017 and when he raised the issue with M&S in 
2019 there is a substantial time span. And this time span is significantly outside the 
timeframes set out in these particular card scheme rules. As it is so far out of time and thus 
didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, I dont think M&S has treated Mr N unfairly by 
not pursuing a chargeback once it was on notice of a dispute here. So I dont think Mr N has 
lost out here because of what M&S did in relation to Chargeback.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? (CCA)
Mr N used his credit card with M&S for this transaction. This means M&S has certain 
responsibilities to Mr N which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail about 
how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr N to hold M&S 
liable for breaches of contract by Firm A, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the 
agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail, a breach of contract 
occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue 
leading to detriment. 
It is clear that Mr N is very much of the opinion that Firm A breached the contract made in 
that the service of timeshare relinquishment was not performed and the deposit he paid 
wasnt refunded. But before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here 
there are some requirements set out in the Act which also have to be met before these 
issues can be considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having 
considered these I think on balance that Mr Ns claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who must send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who must provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods (the Supplier) as well as with the credit 
provider (the Creditor). And this is the crux of the complaint here. Mr N and his 
representatives say that the DCS relationship is in place so M&S can be held liable for any 
breach of contract by Firm A.
However it is clear that although Mr N has described the contract he had with Firm A he 
actually paid a different company the money using his credit card. Ill call the company he 
paid Firm B. The fact that he paid Firm B is supported by his M&S credit card statement 
which shows Firm B and not Firm A as the recipients of the payments in question. So clearly 
there is a fourth party here and so DCS appears on the face of it to not be in place.
However the Act also provides under Section 187 that consumer credit agreement shall be 
treated as entered into under pre-existing arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made 
between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
And subsection 4 states goes on to explain that persons are:
(a)the creditor and the supplier;
(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.
And Associates are tightly defined in section 184 of the Act. This definition includes a 
number of sub-definitions all of which Ive considered. Having done so Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that Firm A and Firm B were associates as under this strict definition. 
Nor have I seen persuasive evidence that Firm B acted as a payment processor for Firm A. 
So Im satisfied that DCS is not made out here. And accordingly M&S cannot be held 
responsible for these losses irrespective of whether breach of contract or misrepresentation 
can be made out.
Mr Ns representatives have made some arguments which I shall address for clarity. 
I note that Mr Ns representatives havent sought to provide evidence of who the controllers 
are (as described in the Act) of the Firms or to make the arguments about Associates at the 
crux of this matter. For this complaint to have been successful there would need to be 
persuasive evidence of who the controllers were of these Firms and that there was 
persuasive evidence of them fulfilling the criteria for Associates in order for DCS to be made 
out. This service has considered this matter deeply through the lens of this complaint (and of 
similar complaints) and the required level of evidence hasnt been found or submitted by Mr 
Ns representatives as you would expect. Accordingly there is no persuasive evidence that 
M&S has treated Mr N unfairly. And as I set out at length at the beginning of this decision I 
have to be persuaded that M&S have treated Mr N unfairly here for it to be held liable. And 
Im not persuaded that there is persuasive evidence to show that M&S should have come to 
a different conclusion in its review of this claim.
Mr Ns representatives state that Firm B is the accountant of Firm A. But they have put 
forward no evidence of the nature of the relationship between Firm A and Firm B. They 
simply havent demonstrated that the requirements in the Act have been met. The fact that 
there is some sort of linkage likely between these firms is not in dispute. But for this 
complaint to be upheld against M&S I have to be persuaded that it has done something 
wrong in its consideration of the claim put to it under the Act. And for that to be the case I 
need to be persuaded that the definitions of Associates as defined under the Act and the 
other requirements of the Act have been met in these particular circumstances. This is the 
crux of the matter. And Mr Ns representatives have not shown this and havent sought to 
show this even though this has been explained to them.
Mr Ns representatives make the argument that this payment to Firm B should be treated as 
a payment to the Seller (Firm A). Which in essence appears to suggest I should hold M&S 
responsible arbitrarily for matters where its only involvement in them was completing the 
transaction Mr N instructed it to. Im not persuaded that its argument is either cogent or fair. I 
have no doubt that Mr N has lost out. But it simply doesnt follow that M&S is responsible for 
this. 
Mr Ns representatives have also said the restricted use credit agreement had been made 
by the card issuer "under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier" within the meaning of s.12(b). The broad 
wording of s.12(b) has not been cut down by s.187(1) of the Act. Section 187 does not 
define the only kind of arrangements capable of falling within s.12(b).But the situation here is that its not been demonstrated on balance that Firm A has any pre-
existing arrangements with the creditor (M&S) which could make M&S liable here. Firm B 
does have pre-existing arrangements with the creditor (M&S) as they've been able to accept 
the card issued by the creditor, via the card scheme. However it is clear that Mr N contracted 
with Firm A and expected it to provide the service. And other than accepting the transaction 
weve no persuasive evidence as to what Firm Bs role is here or what its relationship is with 
Firm A. Nor is there any persuasive evidence that the money passed from Firm B to Firm A 
directly or indirectly.
Mr Ns representatives are correct in that Associates isnt the only way of establishing DCS 
in more than three party situations. But I dont think this makes a difference. This is because 
an important piece of case law here is The High Court case of Governor and Company of 
the Bank of Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman case). In this 
case the High Court held that its the nature of the role that each party plays and the nexus 
between the Supplier and Creditor thats the relevant consideration. I do not propose to 
recount all the details of the case here. However I would note the following: the Truman case 
involved the court considering a five-party structure in which the fifth party, had no 
contractual or other direct relationship with the relevant scheme. But it was held that it did 
not matter that the card issuers had no direct contractual or other relationship with the fifth 
party or that the card issuers had no idea of the existence of the fifth party. There still existed 
arrangements sufficient for the requisite DCS link which were not too tenuous.
However in Truman there was a contractual relationship, the terms and conditions of which 
were available to the court between the Supplier and the fifth party who provided the 
payment machine which was used to process the payment. The roles of all the parties in that 
case were clear and the contractual relationships between the parties to form the chain of 
relationships was evidenced to the court. The level of evidence and understanding of the 
individual relationships between parties and indeed the overall arrangements were clear and 
supported by the evidence available. That is simply not the case in this dispute at the heart 
of this decision. Mr Ns representatives asked for more time to provide further evidence on 
this issue and provided nothing.
This service, as part of its remit, has investigated the firms here and not been able to 
understand what the roles of the parties were or the relationships between them. Nor 
discover evidence of any contracts between them. And without being able to analyse such 
then it is simply not made out that M&S has considered this issue unfairly.
So Im not persuaded by Mr Ns arguments here that there were pre-existing arrangements 
either directly between Firm A and M&S or indirectly via other parties. And as a 
consequence Mr N simply hasnt shown, nor is there persuasive evidence that, M&S has 
considered this situation unfairly by not refunding him.
As Ive described Mr Ns representatives asked for further time in order to find more 
information and asked for an extension to do so until the end of March 2022 or when Firm B 
had responded. Mr Ns representatives have to date provided no further evidence. This 
service wrote to Mr Ns representatives on the 13 April 2022 to state the extension requested 
had passed and that this service would then proceed to a decision. So I consider it fair to 
proceed to this decision now.
Accordingly for the reasons already described this complaint does not succeed as Im not 
persuaded that M&S has treated Mr N unfairly by not refunding him the transaction amount.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr N wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position. But this isnt M&S fault. Mr N is at liberty to not accept this decision and thus not be bound by it. However this final decision brings to an end this services involvement in 
this dispute between Mr N and M&S on this matter.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc trading as M&S Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman