DRN-2157626
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) sold his debts. He doesn't 
think the bank had the right to sell them  and says hes been given conflicting information 
about the balances of the accounts when sold, and the date on which they transferred.
Mr P is also unhappy with how NatWest handled his subject access request (SAR).
What happened
In 2017 NatWest sold two debts owed by Mr P. They were originally credit card accounts,
defaulted years earlier, that Mr P had been paying £1 a month towards for a long time.
Mr P complained to NatWest about the accounts being sold. He said the terms of his credit
card agreement had been breached when NatWest reduced his limit in 2008 without giving
him the proper notice  this meant the contract had been void since then, and the bank
couldn't rely on its terms to justify selling the accounts.
The bank responded in March 2019 to say a complaint about what happened in 2008 was
now out of time. The letter also said its collections agent had been unable to reach a way
forward with Mr P on repaying the debts  and so NatWest had sold them. But Mr P was
upset by that suggestion as hed always paid the same amount and hadn't been asked to
increase his payments.
Mr P made a SAR to get more information about the transfer, and NatWest asked him to
provide proof of identity in order to proceed. Mr P complained about what he was being
asked to provide, and that NatWest had spelt his name wrong in an email about the SAR.
NatWest responded in July 2019 to say he could satisfy the security requirements by
providing a signature specimen to compare to the one on file, and apologised for the error it
made with his name. But Mr P didn't agree NatWest should still have a copy of his signature
on file as it had sold the accounts.
Mr P later complained that hed been given different dates for the transfer of the accounts,
and questioned whether the balances NatWest had reported at the point of transfer were
correct. Mr P also wanted to know the amount paid for the accounts by the new owners, and
he wasn't happy that NatWest had at one point referred to the accounts as being open.
The bank responded in August 2019 and explained that as thousands of accounts were
included as part of the sale, it was a long process with many different dates involved.
NatWest apologised for any confusion caused, offering £30 compensation, and confirmed
the amounts outstanding when the accounts were sold.
Mr P wasn't happy with any of the responses he received from NatWest  and so referred
his complaints to our service for review.
An investigator here looked at all the complaints and didn't think they should be upheld. His
view was that the terms did allow NatWest to sell the accounts, and the bank was free to
make such commercial decisions. The investigator acknowledged NatWest had made some
mistakes, like misspelling Mr Ps name, but thought NatWests apologies were enough. He
also said the explanation given for the different sale dates was reasonable and the stated
balances on sale were correct. Overall, he didn't think any further compensation was due.
As Mr P didn't agree with the investigators view, the complaints were referred to me for a
decision. I previously wrote out to both parties to confirm the complaint about the lowering of
Mr Ps credit card limits in 2008 wasn't in scope  as it had been brought too late.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ps complaint on 9 July 2020. Ive quoted the 
main body of my findings below:
Theres a balance between keeping a customers information safe and putting in place too
many barriers to them being able to access it. In respect of Mr Ps SAR, I dont think asking
for some proof of identity was unreasonable  and when challenged, NatWest attempted to
make the process easier for him by only requiring a signature to compare to them copy on
file. The bank was entitled to retain some of Mr Ps data following the sale for a certain
period  and it was important that it did, given NatWest was forwarding on Mr Ps payments
to the new owners of the debts after the transfer completed. So I dont think NatWest needs
to compensate Mr P for anything related to the SAR process. Similarly, spelling his name
wrong  while mildly irritating Im sure  didn't impact the fulfilment of his SAR. NatWest
apologised and I think thats enough.
I can understand why Mr P questioned the date on which the sale happened. Hed seen
several sale dates mentioned in system notes and had been given differing information by
the staff he spoke to. NatWest accepts it caused some confusion, but gave a reasonable
explanation as to why different dates had been mentioned  saying it was complex process,
involving many steps, with the sale being agreed long before the accounts transferred. The
account balances would only have been slightly different depending on which date was
referred to (given only token payments were being made), and Mr P would have been
provided copies of his statements with his SAR. Having reviewed all the information relating
to the account balances, Im satisfied that when Mr P sought clarity NatWest provided him
with the correct information in its response to his complaint. The bank offered Mr P £30
compensation, to recognise any confusion caused  and I think that was sufficient.
NatWest later referred to the accounts as being open  and I can understand why Mr P
found that contradictory. But NatWest apologised, and again I think that was enough. I also
dont think Mr P was entitled to know how much NatWest sold his accounts for.
Mr Ps argument against NatWest being able to sell on the debt is a legal one, and relates to
an issue he had in 2008 that we cant look at  his card limits being reduced. Its common
practice, though, for debts to be sold in this way and wouldve been something Mr P was on
notice could happen when he signed up to the terms of his agreement. One party not
complying with a particular term in the way hes described wouldn't necessarily render the
entire agreement void anyway. So it seems NatWest could sell the debts, and did  but the
real question for me to decide is whether NatWest should have sold Mr Ps accounts. Based
on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to say that wasn't fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr Ps accounts were sold along with thousands of others  but Mr Ps
circumstances appear to have been well known to NatWest prior to the sale being agreed.
Mr P has only been able to make nominal payments towards the debts since the accounts
defaulted. He hasn't been able to work since 2012, which hes told us is connected to long
term mental health issues, for which he takes medication. NatWest wasn't able to complete
an income and expenditure assessment with Mr P for many years, because he didn't have
any income  and he told us that during this period he had to rely on help from friends andfamily. I cant see Mr Ps health issues mentioned in NatWests notes, though hes told us he
let the bank know on many occasions. But there were clear signs he was struggling, and that
his circumstances weren't stable.
By 2016 the system notes indicate that while Mr P had started to receive benefits, he no
longer had a fixed address or his own phone (he was using his brothers phone to call the
bank). NatWest sent out an income and expenditure form around this time, and didn't hear
back from him  but I dont think it likely reached Mr P given what hed told the bank about
his circumstances. NatWest has said this was why it referred to being unable to reach a way
forward with him in one of its final response letters. Without the proper context I can
understand why that turn of phrase upset Mr P  especially given hed always ensured he
made the agreed nominal payments. But even without that income and expenditure form,
NatWest were aware that his situation had worsened.
At the time of the sale, NatWest was registered with the Lending Standards Board. Its
guidance for dealing with customers in financial difficulty said businesses should take into
account the customers circumstances and consider whether it would amount to a fair
customer outcome to pursue, or to continue to pursue, the amount owed. It also set out
some examples of factors that could indicate a business should write off a debt  and they
included things like the repayment history, anticipated time to repay the debts, how long the
account has been in arrears, employment history and last known income.
The Money Advice Liaison Group said in its Debt and Mental Health Guidelines 2015 that
Creditors should consider writing off unsecured debts when mental health conditions are
long-term, hold out little likelihood of improvement, and are such that it is highly unlikely that
the person in debt would be able repay their outstanding debts. I cant see that NatWest
was a member of The Money Advice Liaison Group (though other brands in its group were)
 but its guidelines still reflected what good practice looked like at the time in question.
Ive taken both sets of guidance into account in deciding what I think is fair. NatWest had
specifically signed up to one, and both signal good industry standards for the time  so I
think it wouldve been reasonable for NatWest to have acted in line with them as well,
bearing in mind Mr Ps circumstances. That means the bank ought to have at least
considered writing off the debts before they were sold  but I cant see that it did so.
Given the history of nominal payments on the accounts, the length of time it would take Mr P
to repay on that trajectory, his mental health and the low chance that his situation would
improve  it seems likely that a reasonable lender, who had properly considered Mr Ps
circumstances, would have written off the debts (instead of selling them) if it was acting fairly
and giving due regard to its customers interests.
Mr P said he accepted my findings and had nothing further to add. NatWest raised the 
following points in response to the provisional decision:
While Mr Ps debts had been managed by the NatWests debt management team for 
some years prior to the sale, his account was not marked as vulnerable  and the 
bank has seen nothing to suggest that wasnt correct.
Even if a customer is on benefits or has entered into a reduced payment plan it 
doesnt necessarily mean a debt should be written off. Many customers who are 
struggling want to pay off their debts, which is why debt management plans 
(including £1 per month) are widely used across the industry.Mr P continues to pay the token payments to reduce the debts and that doesnt 
reconcile with wanting them written off.
The investigator on the complaint considered the same information as I did, and 
agreed the bank had taken the right course of action in Mr Ps circumstances.
A finding of the nature indicated in the provisional decision seemed to be 
disproportionate given NatWests systems and records indicate that it was not made 
aware of Mr Ps vulnerability at the time of the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the further points raised by NatWest. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint  and for broadly the same reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
I dont think a customers willingness to comply with any payment plan put in place absolves 
the bank from its responsibility towards that customer. Regardless of whether Mr P chose to 
struggle to make the token payments over the years, NatWest still needed to give due 
regard to its customers interests and consider what was right in the circumstances. I also 
agree that being on benefits or entering into a reduced payment plan doesnt mean that a 
debt should be automatically written off. But had NatWest assessed things as it should have 
in the circumstances of Mr Ps accounts, I think thats the outcome it should have reached 
instead of selling. 
NatWest has said it didnt add a vulnerable marker to Mr Ps account. I dont know what 
NatWests internal criteria is for flagging an account in this way  but Ive looked to see 
whether I think NatWest knew, or ought to have known, Mr P was vulnerable. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 2015 Occasional Paper on Consumer Vulnerability defined a 
vulnerable consumer as someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of 
care. The Paper explained that many customers wouldnt necessarily define themselves as 
vulnerable, and so put the onus on firms to identify potential vulnerability by looking for 
indicators that their customer could be at risk. It also encouraged proactive and open 
conversations  with low income, debt, sudden changes in circumstances and mental health 
issues given as examples of potential risk factors.
When NatWest sold Mr Ps account, the bank knew hed been in financial difficulty for many 
years  there were no payments taken from him for a long time, as well as years of token 
payments towards the debt. By 2016 the system notes indicate Mr P no longer had a fixed 
address (which hes confirmed was the case) or his own phone number  clear signs his 
circumstances werent stable and had in fact worsened. So I think NatWest ought to have 
known Mr P was vulnerable, and particularly susceptible to detriment, in the period just prior 
to the sale. 
The bank recorded on its system in 2013 that Mr P had lost his job the year before. Other 
than limited insights like not working, nothing further is mentioned in the notes to evidence 
that the bank sought to understand why he still wasnt working years later and couldnt afford 
to pay more than token amounts. Mr P has said he hasnt been able to work since 2012 due 
to mental health issues  and that he told NatWest about this. Hes been open with us about 
the long-term health challenges hes faced, so it seems unlikely to me that this didnt come 
up in conversation with NatWest over the years. But even if Mr P didnt volunteer that information to NatWest, I think the FCAs guidance in this area meant the bank ought to 
have asked questions, and had open conversations, about his circumstances  particularly 
given there were signs of vulnerability. Theres no evidence in the notes that NatWest did 
this  and I think its likely the underlying cause of Mr Ps enduring financial difficulty would 
have come to light had this happened.
It was important that NatWest understood why Mr P was unable to repay the debt, and only 
able to make token payments for such a long period, in order to decide how to proceed at 
each juncture  including whether to sell the accounts. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
NatWest did enough in that regard. I explained in my provisional findings what I think the 
guidance from the Lending Standards Board and The Money Advice Liaison Group meant 
NatWest ought to have done in the circumstances  and I havent reviewed anything further 
that persuades me otherwise. So overall, Im still of the opinion that given the history of no or 
nominal payments, the length of time it would take Mr P to repay on that trajectory, his 
mental health and the low chance that his situation would improve  it seems likely that a 
reasonable lender, acting fairly, who had properly considered Mr Ps circumstances and had 
due regard for his interests, would have written off the debts instead of selling them.
Putting things right
After considering the individual circumstances of this complaint, taking into account the 
relevant guidelines and good industry practice, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
NatWest to now write off the debt  as this is what I think it ought to have done in 2017. 
So to put things right, NatWest should first buy back the accounts, cancel the remaining 
balances and notify the credit reference agencies. 
NatWest adequately put right the individual concerns that formed part of Mr Ps overall 
complaint as they arose (like the issues with his SAR and the different transfer/sale dates). 
But Mr P has had to pay towards the debt for longer than I think he should have, and deal 
with the bank during that period. So a lot of the extra frustration and inconvenience hes 
experienced since the accounts were sold could have been avoided. Mr P has also 
mentioned that even maintaining the token payments has since been a struggle. Taking 
those factors into account, I think NatWest should pay Mr P £250 compensation to recognise 
the practical and emotional impact its mistake has had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct National
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Buy back the debts, write off the balances and notify the credit reference agencies.
Pay Mr P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2020. 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman