DRN-3655201
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In July 2015, Mr A acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from BPF. 
Mr A paid a deposit of £100 and was required to make 48 monthly repayments of around 
£286, with a final optional payment of £6,150 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the 
agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was just under £20,000.
Mr A says that BPF didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. BPF didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included gathering details about Mr As employment and 
income and carrying out a credit check. 
Mr A also says he was misled as he was told at the time of entering the agreement that he 
could hand back the car at any time but when he experienced difficulties making his 
repayments he wasnt allowed to do this. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought BPF ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr A.
BPF didnt agree. It reviewed the bank statements relied on in our investigators view and 
didnt think these gave a complete picture of Mr As finances as his wages werent shown. It 
said its underwriters calculated Mr As monthly income to be £1,164 and given he had 
minimal monthly expenditure the repayments appeared affordable. It said Mr As credit file 
had no adverse data and he didnt have outstanding credit commitments. BPF said that Mr A 
had paid £4,489.85 to it before the account was transferred to third party.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
BPF carried out a credit check and said this didnt raise concerns. I have looked at the 
results of the credit check that BPF provided. These show very little data  which is 
unsurprising given Mr As age at the time (18). So, while I accept this report didnt show 
adverse data it also didnt show any positive signs as to how Mr A had been managing 
credit. Due to the lack of information contained I do not think it was reasonable to place 
much weight on this report and I think it would have been reasonable to carry out further 
checks to ensure the lending was affordable.
BPF recorded Mr A as having an annual income of £16,000 which gave a monthly income of 
£1,164. Given the size of the repayments compared to Mr As income and noting the term of 
the agreement, I think it would have been reasonable for his income to have been verified. I 
note the comments BPF has made about Mr A having minimal expenditure, but I think it 
would have been proportionate to ask Mr A about his committed living expenses. Without 
confirmation of Mr As earnings and understanding what his regular committed expenditure 
was BPF wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was 
affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
While BPF recorded Mr As annual income as £16,000, Mr A says he didnt provide this 
information and that he was earning around £200 a week in cash at the time of the 
agreement. I accept that verifying his income may have been difficult. However, given the 
details that have been provided about Mr As income and noting the size and term of the 
agreement I think it was particularly important for some form of verification of income to take 
place. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for BPF to have found out more about Mr As 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what BPF would have 
found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to 
place significant weight on the information contained in Mr As bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
We have asked for copies of Mr As payslips or other evidence of his wages at the time. 
Mr A has explained that he was paid in cash and that he didnt receive any payslips. Ive 
reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. 
The statements do not show that Mr A was being paid a regular salary into his account. I 
note BPFs comments about Mr A possibly having another account, but he has confirmed he 
only had the one bank account at the time (for which statements have been provided). 
Mr As accounts show cash deposits into his account which he says was from his wages. 
These amounts very substantially but give an average of less than £500 a month. While I 
accept that he may not have paid all his earnings into his account, the cash deposited shows 
a low level of income. Mr A also received frequent transfers from his parents which were to 
cover his living expenses. 
I note BPFs comments about Mr A not paying rent or other household costs and I agree 
there is no evidence he was making these payments. However, in the two months leading up 
to the agreement Mr A paid an average of around £480 for insurance. He received a refund 
in early July and then paid a further £460 in July. Additional to this he was making payments 
to the DVLA as well as paying for fuel and food. While I accept Mr As costs for items such 
as fuel and food may have been covered by his parents I find it reasonable to accept that he 
had other committed costs associated with having a car such as insurance and DVLA 
charges which he was required to make. Considering Mr As limited income this 
demonstrates that Mr A didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional 
borrowing. BPF therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Overall, I do not think that had adequate checks been carried out, BPF would have found 
that this agreement was affordable for Mr A.Putting things right
As I dont think BPF ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all the 
payments Mr A has made, including any deposit. However, Mr A did have use of the car for 
around 22 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly 
repayments of around £286 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is 
because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr As likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr A should pay is £210 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means BPF can only ask him to repay a total of 
£4,620. Anything Mr A has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
As BPF has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt from 
the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out below is carried out promptly. 
To settle Mr As complaint BPF should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mr A has made, less £4,620 for fair usage. 
oIf Mr A has paid more than the fair usage figure, BPF should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr A has paid less than the fair usage figure, BPF should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once BPF has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BPF to take off tax from this interest. BPF must give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr A asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance to put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman