DRN-3060847
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain about the way St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) have 
handled a claim and the settlement offered under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 and set out the background of the case as:-
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and largely isnt in dispute so 
Ill only summarise it here.
In 2015 Mrs and Mr C made a claim for damage caused by movement to a wall 
forming part of the boundary to their property and supporting a lean-to extension.
Numerous site visits took place over the next 4 years and St Andrews made a cash 
offer of £3,174.10 rather than carry out repairs itself.
Mrs and Mr C werent happy with the offer and complained to St Andrews in October 
2019. The claim remained unresolved and in February 2020 Mrs and Mr C brought 
their complaint to this service.
In April 2020 St Andrews offered £400 in recognition of the delays and overall 
service received. And made a revised cash settlement offer of £5,339.35.
St Andrews didnt think it should pay a fee for a party wall agreement and said that 
the wall was poorly constructed and it should only be required to put the wall back to 
the condition it was in before the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the settlement offer by St Andrews was fair but agreed 
the offer of £400 compensation for the service delays was reasonable. 
She acknowledged the policy terms allowed St Andrews to make a cash offer rather 
than carry out the repairs itself, but the settlement amount didnt indemnify Mrs and 
Mr C for the costs they would incur.
Our investigator felt it was unfair for St Andrews to only pay to put the wall back into 
its pre-claim state as that would be in breach of current standards. And that it should 
pay the full costs, including demolition, stabilising the foundations, rebuilding and 
redecorating the wall and roofing structure and associated professional fees for a 
Party Wall Agreement to be put in place.
She said Mrs and Mr C should obtain 3 quotes from contractors covering those costs 
and present them to St Andrews. And that St Andrews should pay an amount equal 
to one of those quotes.
St Andrews disagreed, they said alterations made to the wall when creating the lean-
to enclosure from a freestanding wall made it structurally vulnerable. And it didnt feel 
it was fair to be held liable for upgrading the lean-to construction and complying with 
building regulations or other statutory requirements. However, it increased its offer by 
10% to take account of the discount it received from contractors and better reflect the 
cost Mrs and Mr C would pay. And it agreed to include planning application costs of 
£206, a total of £6079.35 including VAT.
Mrs and Mr C didnt accept the revised offer and want St Andrews to carry out the 
repairs or make a cash settlement in the region of £35,000. As agreement couldnt be 
reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
And I set out my reasoning as follows:-
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, and Ill explain 
why.
I agree with our investigator that the policy terms allow St Andrews to make a cash 
settlement rather than carry out the repairs itself. And whilst Mrs and Mr C may want St 
Andrews to carry out the repairs it has chosen to make a cash settlement, and I find this 
reasonable. 
I also agree with our investigator that St Andrews must indemnify Mrs and Mr C, that is it 
should put them in the position they were in before the claim arose. And that the cash 
settlement should reflect the costs Mrs and Mr C would incur rather than the amount St 
Andrews would pay using its own contractors.
In determining whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case Ive thought 
carefully about the issue of proportionality. From what Ive seen the lean-to extension is 
poorly constructed, for example there is no lintel above the external door, single skin 
brickwork has been used to increase the height of what was once a freestanding boundary 
wall, there are few wall brackets and the roof has substandard flashing/seals. And whilst it 
has stood for many years, with some evidence of partial and inadequate repairs, the very 
nature of its flawed design and poor construction inevitably results in a limited lifespan.
Having considered what is reasonable in the circumstances of this case I find the remedy 
Mrs and Mr C are seeking wholly disproportionate given the lean-to construction was built 
onto the boundary garden wall with the neighbouring property and is structurally inadequate 
as an extension to the home. And what St Andrews has offered allows the putting right of 
the damage. The longer term prospects though can't reasonably fall on St Andrews to sort 
out given the complexities of meeting regulatory requirements and the potential need for 
architect involvement for what is in essence an inadequate structure.
Mrs and Mr C havent substantiated the costs they say they would incur. Theyve mentioned 
having one quote in the region of £30,000 but Ive not seen this. And theyve shared a 
recommendation from another builder, who was quoting for other works on Mrs and Mr Cs 
property, that an architect be appointed to produce plans and a detailed schedule of works to 
enable them and other contractors to price the project. 
St Andrews has shared a schedule of works and Im satisfied that this takes account of the 
works required to repair the damage under the claim, including demolition of the affected 
area, rebuilding the wall, re-roofing, plastering and decorating.
The buildings section of policy confirms that subsidence, heave or landslip are covered but it 
sets out that it excludes damage to garden walls unless the main building of your home is 
damaged at the same time. And under the general exclusions of the policy it sets out 
uninsurable risks and these include faulty workmanship, poor design, or defective or 
inherently unsuitable materials. St Andrews havent argued that the damaged wall is in 
effect a garden wall or applied these exclusions, notwithstanding that some of these were referred to in expert reports, and have made a settlement offer, albeit after a considerable 
delay. And I think this is reasonable approach.
Since our investigator issued her view St Andrews has increased the settlement offer by 
10% to ensure the costs reflect the market rate for the works, rather than the costs it would 
incur using its own contractors. And has agreed to pay £206 towards planning application 
costs. Its revised settlement figure is therefore £6,079.35 less the policy excess. In the 
circumstances of this case I find this reasonable.
Ive looked at the concerns at the delays and overall service and agree that £400 is a fair 
amount and wont be asking St Andrews to pay any more.
I invited both parties to let me have their further comments.
Replies to the provisional findings
Mrs and Mr C made a number of points and observations which Ill summarise here:-
They say there is no evidence that an existing wall was altered when creating the 
lean-to, and it formed part of property when they purchased it.
They say the failure of the wall hasnt been attributed to its design and construction 
and it arises from subsidence and vegetation growing through the wall.
They provided a builders estimate to substantiate the costs they say they would 
incur.
They dispute the accuracy of the schedule of works St Andrews provided.
They say St Andrews raised planning issues in error, and less experienced 
consumers may have incurred unnecessary costs as a result. And the offer of £206 
towards a planning application is irrelevant.
They dont agree £400 is a reasonable level of compensation.
St Andrews responded advising it had no points to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as in my provisional decision.
There is no dispute that the lean-to existed when Mrs and Mr C purchased the property. And 
the survey report confirms it is formed by the boundary wall, a Perspex roof and a rear wall 
with a door in it. The issue at hand is the nature of its construction. In the view of engineers 
appointed by St Andrews the boundary wall was increased in height, and it was originally a 
lower, single skin wall. They point to cracking which appears to them to be where the original 
brickwork ended, and new areas were added. As the brickwork is covered in plaster it isnt 
possible to be certain the wall was increased in height but Im more persuaded by the 
engineers comments that it was. 
Regardless of any increase in height, the poor construction such as a lack of piers and lintel 
will inevitably lead to problems. In the circumstances of this case its wholly disproportionate 
to expect St Andrews to replace the lean-to with a significantly enhanced construction given 
potential regulatory and technical complexities. St Andrews isnt disputing there has been 
subsidence, it has accepted the claim, and made a cash offer. But it wouldnt be 
proportionate for it to include significant betterment in that offer. St Andrews has made a cash offer as it is entitled to do under the terms of the policy. This 
offer is based on the schedule of works it has prepared and this contains enough detail of 
the materials and labour required that Im satisfied its a fair offer to replace the damaged 
areas. Ive seen the builders estimate Mrs and Mr C have provided indicating a total cost of 
£30,600 and, whilst it lacks detail, it appears to be for a full rebuild rather than replacing and 
repairing the damaged areas and includes a £7,000 contingency. The figures from St 
Andrews schedule of works and Mrs and Mr Cs builders estimate are significantly different, 
even after St Andrews has added a 10% figure to reflect the discount it receives. I give more 
weight to the figures St Andrews has provided and am satisfied its a fair and reasonable 
offer in this case.
I note Mrs and Mr Cs concerns around planning permission issues being raised, and that 
people less acquainted with the planning system may have incurred unnecessary costs. 
However, Mrs and Mr C didnt incur those costs so its a moot point. Mrs and Mr C say the 
offer of £206 towards a planning application is irrelevant and have evidenced that planning 
permission isnt necessary. In this decision Im not commenting on any specific permissions 
needed, but as St Andrews has offered £206 towards planning, Im not going to ask it to 
withdraw that offer.
In her view our investigator said she felt the £400 offer from St Andrews in recognition of the 
delays on the case was fair. Mrs and Mr C accepted her findings, including the award for the 
delays. In my provisional decision I agreed it was a reasonable offer and, having reviewed 
everything Im still satisfied that this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman