DRN-3928645
The complaint
Mr U complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his claim made on his motor 
insurance policy for the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr Us car was stolen from his driveway at night. Aviva declined the claim as it said his 
policy required his car to be garaged between 10pm and 6am. Mr U said the car wasnt in 
the garage because of a family emergency. He thought the exclusion from cover wasnt 
made clear in the policy documents. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
had made the exclusion from cover clear. He wasnt persuaded that Mr U couldnt have put 
his car in the garage. And so he thought there was no cover for the car when it was stolen.
Mr U replied that there were clear reasons why the car wasnt garaged at the time, and he 
thought the policy exclusion was unclear. Mr U asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the theft and the effect it is having on Mr Us family finances. I can 
understand that this must be very stressful for him and his family.
Mr U firstly logged his claim online. He then called Aviva the next day and it took a statement 
from him. Ive listened to a recording of this call. Mr U told Aviva he last used the car when 
he came home from work at 6.30 pm. He said he last saw the car at about half past eight or 
nine. He said he went to bed at 10.30 and later had an alert that the car had been tracked on 
the move. Mr U said the car had been parked on his driveway right in front of the garage at 
the time of the theft. 
In a later account given to Aviva and in his complaint to us, Mr U described different 
circumstances. He said hed returned home at both 7.30 and then 6.30 and garaged the car. 
He said that later that evening he had taken the car to attend a family emergency and then 
left it on the driveway as he thought he might need to repeat this. He said he intended to 
garage the car before he went to bed, but it had already been stolen.
So Mr U has given inconsistent accounts of the theft circumstances. He didnt mention the 
family emergency in his call to Aviva. So Im not persuaded that there were extenuating 
circumstances that Aviva should have considered. And I cant see why these would have 
prevented him from garaging the car in any case. 
But what is clear is that the car was stolen when it was parked on Mr Us driveway after 
11.00pm. This was confirmed by CCTV footage he provided. And Aviva said this was the 
reason it had declined the claim.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Aviva relied on a policy 
exclusion to decline the claim. It said the car had to be garaged overnight. 
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out clearly in the policy 
wording. In Mr Us policy he stated that his car was garaged overnight. And I can see that 
the exclusion is set out on the policy schedule under Policy clauses:
We will not pay under Section 1 for any loss or damage to the vehicle  caused by theft 
unless the vehicle is kept in locked building between the hours of 22.00 and 06.00, when in 
the proximity of: Your private dwelling house or Any other address where the vehicle is 
normally garaged, and which has been agreed by us.
So I think the exclusion was sufficiently brought to Mr Us attention for Aviva to rely on it. And 
Mr U clearly understood the exclusion as he said he always garaged his car overnight and 
intended to do so on the night of the theft. 
The car was stolen from Mr Us driveway after 10pm when it should have been garaged. So 
Im satisfied that Aviva fairly and reasonably relied on the exclusion from cover to decline his 
claim in keeping with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman