DRN-2142199
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him for transactions he didnt 
make or authorise. And asked him to repay the transactions.
What happened
Mr R got in touch with Barclays on 17 March 2019 after hed not been able to use his 
account online the previous day. And his bank card was kept by an ATM after hed tried to 
use it. Barclays told Mr R that there had been some suspicious activity on his account, so it 
had blocked it whilst it looked into things. And would send him a new bank card. 
Barclays subsequently told Mr R that a fraud claim had been raised on his account on a 
large number of transactions between October 2018 and February 2019. The bank had 
refunded the transactions back into Mr Rs account on 16 March 2019, which had then been 
transferred out via online banking within an hour to new payees. Following a review, 
Barclays decided Mr R had made the disputed transactions, so it re-debited the account with 
the amount that had been refunded. This resulted in Mr Rs account going overdrawn. 
Barclays asked Mr R to repay the money and after Mr R refused the bank passed his 
account to a debt collection agency. 
Mr R says it wasnt him who raised a fraud claim and that someone had pretended to be him 
to lodge the claim. Mr R says he never made the disputed transactions. And was shocked to 
find out about everything. Hes said that he lives with his siblings and explained that he 
suffers from dyslexia, which means he has trouble remembering things. So, he has an easy 
to guess security passcode on his mobile phone and has kept a record of his online banking 
details in a notebook, which he keeps in his bedroom. Hes also explained that his bank 
statements are kept in a folder in the living room at his address. And that sometimes he 
forgets to take his phone with him when he goes out. Mr R says that he often leaves his 
phone unattended next to his keys when gets home.
Barclays accept that it wasnt Mr R who raised the fraud claim. But they believe it was Mr R 
who made the disputed transactions because:
A third party would have had to be aware of his online banking information, be able to 
take Mr Rs mobile phone, make the disputed transactions and replace the phone 
without Mr R noticing
There are logins to Mr Rs online banking throughout 16 March 2019 when the 
disputed transactions were made 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators considered his 
complaint. She was satisfied, like Barclays, that Mr R hadnt raised the fraud claim. Overall, 
she thought it was unlikely that Mr R had made or authorised the transactions. And she 
didnt think Mr R had been grossly negligent with his banking information. 
The investigator asked Barclays to restore Mr Rs account to the position it would have been 
in if the disputed transactions hadnt debited his account, remove any charges or interest 
applied and any information that has impacted his credit file. She also said Barclays should 
pay M R £100 compensation. Barclays disagreed and said they believed Mr R was involved 
in the fraud.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Did Mr R authorise the disputed transactions?
Barclays is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions if Mr R didnt make or 
authorise them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr R says he didnt make the payments. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether I think Mr R authorised the payments. And 
having carefully considered the evidence I dont think he did. I say this because:
Ive listened to the recording of the call made to Barclays to raise the false fraud 
claim on Mr Rs account. And Im satisfied that the individual making the call wasnt 
Mr R. Its clear from listening to the call that the individual knew a lot about Mr R. 
They were able to provide a detailed history of transactions on the account along with 
personal information about Mr R to pass the banks security questions, including his 
date of birth and full name. Mr R has explained that this information was accessible 
by others who lived at or visited Mr Rs home  plus we know they must have had 
access to his Online banking? 
Mr R wasnt aware the bank had blocked his account and bank card following the 
fraud claim and attempted to use his card on 17 March 2019. I dont think he would 
have done this if hed known his account was blocked 
Barclays has suggested that Mr R is involved in the fraud, but Ive not seen any 
evidence to substantiate this
Barclays evidence shows Mr Rs device was used for the transactions. I dont doubt 
this evidence. But there seems to be plenty of opportunity for somebody to access 
and use Mr Rs phone during this period. And Mr R says the security passcode on his 
phone is simple and easily guessable due to his memory problems
Mr R has told us that due to his dyslexia he has his online banking information written 
down at home. He also receives paper statements which he keeps in a folder in a 
drawer in his living room. So, I think its likely that a third party was able to gain 
access to Mr Rs banking information and gain access to his device without his 
knowledge
when Barclays re-debited the disputed transactions, it placed Mr Rs account just 
under £2,000 overdrawn. Mr R didnt have an overdraft facility on his account. Based 
on how Mr R normally operated his account, I think Mr R wouldve struggled to repay 
this, so I dont think Mr R wouldve taken the risk of being liable for a large debt if 
Barclays found him responsible for the disputed transactions and 
when the bank told Mr R about the transactions, he appeared to have been genuinely 
unaware of each transaction and the fraud claimThe test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the account and Mr Rs 
device to be compromised; it is whether Mr R as the payment service user authorised the 
dispute transactions. Its not my role to determine how someone else could have got hold of 
Mr Rs account details and in this case his mobile phone, made these transactions or to 
investigate who that individual could be. But I do need to believe there are scenarios where 
someone could have used Mr Rs account without his consent. That includes whether Mr R 
left his phone unattended - this could have provided someone close to Mr R who also had 
access to his online banking information  the opportunity to make the disputed transactions. 
With all that in mind I dont think its likely that Mr R authorised the transactions he disputes.
was Mr R grossly negligent or did he fail with intent?
Barclays can hold Mr R liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not that he authorised someone else to make them or if he failed with intent to 
look after his security details  either by displaying a very high degree of carelessness or by 
intentionally failing to keep his account details safe.
 
There isnt any evidence to show Mr R gave his account details to anyone else to use at any 
point.  And I dont think it was grossly negligent for Mr R to keep his banking credentials at 
his home. Mr R has explained that he has his account information including his online 
banking password written in the back of a notebook which he keeps in a drawer in his 
bedroom. I understand he does this because of his learning disorder which means he has 
problems remembering information. And I think this is reasonable. He might have been 
careless, but I dont think he was grossly negligent or failed with intent to keep his online 
banking details safe.
In summary, after careful consideration, Im satisfied, on balance that Mr R didnt authorise 
or consent to the disputed transactions and I dont consider he was grossly negligent or 
failed with intent to keep his banking credentials safe. 
Its also clear to me that Mr R has spent a good deal of time trying to sort things out and has 
been quite upset by what has happened here - in particular when he was contacted by debt 
collectors. So, I think its fair he gets paid compensation for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused. I believe £100 is a fair and reasonable amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should:
Restore the account to the position it would have been in if the disputed transactions 
hadnt debited the account and the fraud claim hadnt been made
Remove any charges or interest applied to the account as a result of the disputed 
transactions
Remove any adverse information that has impacted his credit file and
Pay Mr R£100 for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman