DRN-3774076
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) incorrectly defaulted 
her loan account and sold the debt to a third party despite her being on a payment plan.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, in summary, Mrs M took out a loan with Halifax and maintained her monthly 
payment for a number of years. She then faced financial difficulties and a payment plan was 
agreed to run until 16 April 2021. However, Halifax defaulted the account in March and sold 
the debt to a third party, so Mrs M complained. 
Halifax responded and accepted theyd made an error in defaulting Mrs Ms account while 
she was still on a payment plan with them. Halifax apologised and paid £100 compensation. 
Halifax said they were prepared to remove the default recorded on the account but on the 
condition that Mrs M is able to clear the arrears of £837.85 by the end of June, while also 
paying her normal monthly instalments of £167.57. 
Halifax explained when an account moves to their Recoveries team, its automatically set to 
be sold  and thats why they sold the loan to a third party. Halifax said they were in the 
process of recalling the loan back. They agreed to remove the default from Mrs Ms credit file 
but said, if the agreed repayments arent made, the default will be re-applied. Mrs M then 
cleared the arrears and maintained her monthly repayment within the agreed timeframe.  
Mrs M has since cleared the loan balance. During our investigation Mrs M provided 
information showing defaults were continuing to show on her credit file and she also had 
missed payments showing with two credit reference agencies (CRAs).  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs M. She agreed Halifax had made an error and 
recommended they increase the compensation to £300. Mrs M and Halifax havent agreed to 
our investigators recommendation so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs M. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Halifax have admitted they got things wrong when they defaulted Mrs Ms 
account while she was still in an agreed payment plan. The only issue I have to decide is 
whether their offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Halifax should compensate Mrs M for the shock, upset and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by Halifax and what the impact of that 
error has been. 
Mrs M was understandably shocked when she found out her account had been defaulted. 
She says the first time she found out there was a problem was when her loan account was 
no longer showing on her mobile app. Ive looked at Halifaxs call notes and the record of 
Mrs Ms call to them in April 2021, when she finds out her account has been defaulted, 
shows she was very upset and worried about the impact on her credit file. Mrs M was further 
upset when she found out her account had been sold to a third party and her account had 
been closed. During a further call in April 2021, Mrs M asks if her loan account can be put 
back on her mobile app to allow her to monitor it, but the agent explains thats not possible. I 
think these events all follow the original error in Halifax defaulting the account. 
Before I expand on my reasoning for the steps Halifax should take to put things right, Ill 
address the points raised by Halifax in response to our investigators view. 
I can see Halifax agreed to a payment holiday from March 2020 to May. Mrs M made a 
payment in June and Halifax then agreed a further payment holiday from July to September. 
In October, Halifax agreed to a payment plan until January 2021, and then a further payment 
plan until April. Halifax say Mrs M received the maximum amount of covid payment holidays, 
which is six  and these took place between March to September 2020. Halifax say, after 
this, as Mrs M couldnt meet her monthly repayments, they agreed a nil payment plan from 
October to January 2021. They say at the end of this plan Mrs M was in three months 
arrears so, in line with guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), 
they couldve proceeded to default the account at this point. Halifax say, when they 
discussed Mrs Ms circumstances at the end of this payment plan, they agreed a further 
three months nil payment plan which would run until April 2021. Halifax say the error was 
that they started default proceedings during the second nil payment plan but, by this point, 
Mrs M was in four months arrears. 
I think its important to firstly clarify that the payment deferrals were measures introduced by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) under temporary guidance due to the pandemic. 
The guidance said that lenders should offer consumers impacted by the pandemic up to six 
months payment deferrals (taken in two blocks of three months). And, thats what Halifax 
offered. So, I acknowledge why a further payment deferral wasnt an option. But, under 
normal regulations, when a consumer is in financial difficulty a lender is required to treat the 
consumer positively and sympathetically. And, I think Halifax met those obligations and took 
reasonable steps by offering two, three months, payment plans.   
But one of the areas of dispute here relates to Halifaxs actions during the payment plan 
period and the negative impact on Mrs Ms credit file. And, as a result, this will affect her 
ability to borrow in the future. Mrs M has provided a copy of her credit report and, for two 
CRAs, it shows missed payments for some of the months she was on the payment plan. Ive 
therefore given careful thought to whether Halifax did enough to make Mrs M aware of the 
impact the payment plan would have.  
I do acknowledge that taking everything in wouldve been difficult for Mrs M in what was 
clearly a very worrying and stressful time for her. But Ive seen from the payment plan letters 
sent to Mrs M, both clearly set out  in the highlighted area under the heading Something to 
think about that being behind with payments can affect a credit score, make it harder to 
borrow money and will remain on a credit file for six years. This is different to the information 
set out in the payment holiday letter sent to Mrs M in July 2020 which says a payment 
holiday wont impact her credit file. So, overall, I think Halifax did enough to let Mrs M know that accepting the payment plan would impact her credit file. I know Mrs M feels like she is 
being punished - particularly, as she was on a payment plan. But lenders do have a duty to 
report factual information about credit accounts and how they are managed. So, it follows, 
Im not going to ask Halifax to remove the information they recorded on Mrs Ms credit file 
about the missed payments, as this is an accurate reflection of what happened. 
 
That said, and while Ive taken into account Halifaxs point about the ICO guidelines and  
Mrs M being in arrears of three months at the end of the first payment plan, Im not 
persuaded that, in the circumstances of this case, this means it wouldve been reasonable 
for them to have proceeded to default the account. I say this because, in all communication 
relating to the payment plan, Halifax havent given any clear indication that they could still 
default the account. The letters dont suggest this option is still available to them and, during 
a phone call in December 2020, Mrs M asks Halifax about her payment plan as she has 
received letters regarding arrears. The note says the agent confirmed Mrs M only needs to 
contact them in January 2021 and can arrange a plan for the arrears. Theres no mention of 
a default being a possibility.  
Halifax say, had they not defaulted the account in March 2021, it appears likely a default was 
going to happen anyway. They say Mrs M only cleared the arrears balance in June 2021, so 
they believe she wouldve likely defaulted after the end of the second payment plan in April 
2021. I do acknowledge Halifaxs point here, but Im not persuaded the situation would still 
have been the same had they not defaulted the account in March. Firstly, the letter sent to 
Mrs M in October 2020, agreeing the first payment plan, asks Mrs M to get back in touch 
with Halifax at the end of the plan so we can see what we can do for you next. Mrs M 
does get in touch with Halifax at the end of the plan and they agree a further three months 
payment plan. This letter in January 2021 also asks Mrs M to get back in touch with Halifax 
at the end of the plan to see what they can do for her next. Ive seen no evidence which 
persuades me Halifax at this point had decided Mrs M wouldnt be eligible for a further nil 
payment plan or that their next steps at the end of the plan would be to start default 
proceedings. Secondly, whether Mrs M mightve still been in arrears beyond the end of the 
plan in April doesnt change the fact that Halifax have incorrectly defaulted the account 
before the end of the agreed payment plan  something theyve accepted in their final 
response to the complaint.  
I note Halifax say Mrs M hasnt paid interest since October 2020 and they couldve 
reinstated the loan with interest and backdated it with interest owed but chose not to do so. 
They feel this, together with the compensation already paid, is fair. However, I dont agree 
this interest should be treated as part of Halifaxs attempts to put things right. I say this 
because, in their payment plan letters, Halifax already agreed to stop charging interest over 
the payment plan period  which they say was down to Mrs M experiencing financial 
difficulties. Section 7 of the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) sets out how a business 
should deal with a customer in financial difficulties, and says lenders should consider 
customers in financial difficulty with forbearance and due consideration. It goes on to give 
examples of positive steps a lender should take and includes cancelling any further interest 
charges. Ive seen Halifaxs call notes where they discuss Mrs Ms financial situation and this 
highlights her expenditure outweighed her income by over £1,100 each month. This shows 
Halifax were clearly aware Mrs M was in significant financial difficulty. 
So, I think Halifax dealt with Mrs M sympathetically and positively by cancelling the interest  
but this is in response to her financial difficulty and falls in line with steps we would expect a 
lender to take in any event.    
Halifax say, while Mrs M has been impacted by their default, she has benefitted financially 
from this error. They say Mrs M hasnt had to pay any interest since May 2021 and they 
would be within their rights to add the interest from May 2021 to completion. They say this is 
to reflect the position if the account had returned to normal conditions. I acknowledge Halifaxs point here, but I dont think its fair in the circumstances for Halifax to treat this as 
an alternative form of redress. I say this because, firstly, the points Ive made above about 
forbearance and due consideration apply similarly here. Secondly, Mrs M says she wanted 
Halifax to reinstate her account and return it to the position it was in before the error 
occurred. I can see from notes of a call Mrs M has with Halifax in April 2021, she asks the 
agent if the account can be put back in place but the agent explains its not possible. So, this 
shows Mrs M was agreeable to this as a way forward but this doesnt appear to have been 
an available option for Halifax. So, I dont think its fair in the circumstances now for Halifax 
to refer to this interest as being something they couldve charged. 
Turning now to the factors which I believe support a higher award of compensation than 
what Halifax have offered. The default has had an impact and this continued beyond the 
point Halifax removed it. Mrs M has provided a copy of her credit report and this shows, with 
one CRA, the default continued reappearing for several months even after it was originally 
removed. Halifax say this was down to a known issue involving accounts which were bought 
back and the defaults removed. I can see Halifax continued to monitor this and arranged for 
the default to be removed each time it reappeared. So, while I think this was a reasonable 
step to take, it did continue to upset Mrs M and was a consequence of the original error. 
The other point Ive taken into account relates to Halifaxs actions when arranging settlement 
of the arrears. Section 7 of CONC says lenders shouldnt pressure borrowers to make 
unreasonably large payments where this will have an adverse impact on their financial 
position. Ive already mentioned above that Mrs M was experiencing significant financial 
difficulties. So, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think the three-month period 
given to Mrs M to clear the arrears while maintaining her monthly payments to prevent her 
account being defaulted again did put pressure on her. Mrs M explains she had to borrow 
money to meet these payments. I acknowledge Halifax did allow Mrs M three months to 
clear the arrears. But, this position of Mrs M having to make these payments to avoid a 
particular consequence, was in response to the original error. As mentioned above, I havent 
seen any compelling evidence to persuade me that a further payment plan beyond April 
2021 was never an option here. In any event, Mrs M was put under pressure here to pay an 
amount which, when considering her financial circumstances, was significant. And, this was 
to remove a default or stop it from being reapplied in circumstances where the original error 
was made by Halifax.  
Taking all the information into account, I think Halifax should increase their offer of 
compensation to £300 as this fairly reflects the impact on Mrs M. 
I understand Mrs M remains concerned about the impact the payment plan reporting had on 
her credit file. It may be helpful for Mrs M to know that she can contact the CRAs directly and 
ask to record a notice of correction  this means she has the opportunity to record her 
circumstances behind the missed payments. More information can be found here: 
https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html 
I wish to reassure Mrs M and Halifax that Ive read and considered everything theyve sent 
in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Halifax have made an error which has had a significant impact on  
Mrs M. So, in addition to the £100 already paid to Mrs M, they should pay an additional £200 
for the shock, upset and inconvenience  bringing the total paid for this complaint to £300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have 
already paid £100 compensation  so they must pay Mrs M an additional £200 to bring the 
total amount of compensation paid to £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman