DRN-4250421
The complaint
Mr A complains that Accelerant Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy and declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr A had an insurance policy with Accelerant which covered his van for courier work. Mr As 
van was damaged while on the driveway at his home, so he claimed on his policy with 
Accelerant. 
Accelerant reviewed the claim and turned it down. It said that during its investigation Mr A 
had let Accelerant know he had a second occupation. Accelerant said if it had known Mr A 
had a second occupation, and wasnt a full-time courier, it wouldnt have offered him any 
cover at all. So it declined his claim, avoided his policy and refunded the premium.  Mr A 
didnt think this was fair and complained. 
Accelerant reviewed the complaint and said when Mr A bought his policy through a broker 
he had agreed to an assumption which said he was a full-time courier. Accelerant said as Mr 
A had now informed it that he had a second occupation it didnt think Mr A had answered the 
assumptions correctly. So Accelerant stood by its position that it had acted fairly by declining 
his claim, avoiding the policy and refunding his premium. 
Mr A didnt agree and referred his complaint here. He said his main occupation was a full-
time courier, but occasionally he carried out another driving job which he had done the day 
his van was damaged while it was at his home address. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that
Mr A had given a fair presentation of the risk by agreeing with the assumptions screen. He 
said this was because its possible to be a full-time courier, as Mr A is, and also have a 
second occupation. And as Accelerant hadnt asked if Mr A had a second occupation, he 
didnt think it was fair to avoid his policy due to this. Our investigator recommended 
Accelerant re-instate Mr As policy, remove any records of the avoidance and settle the claim 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He also recommended Accelerant pay Mr 
A £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Accelerant didnt agree. It said this policy had been taken out via a broker who would have 
completed a demands and needs with Mr A. It said the assumptions screen is then 
completed and having a second occupation means Mr A cant be classified as a full-time 
courier. So, Accelerant maintained its position that Mr A hadnt given a fair presentation of 
the risk. Accelerant also said Mr A hadnt declared he had access to other vehicles. 
As Accelerant didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation to be considered here is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). Under
the Act, Mr A had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk when buying his policy. And 
for Accelerant to take any action, it needs to show that Mr A didnt do that and that it made
whats known as a qualifying breach. To demonstrate a qualifying breach, Accelerant 
would need to show that if Mr A had made a fair presentation of the risk, it  would either
have not offered Mr A the policy or would have done so on different terms.
The Act says:
(3) A fair presentation of the risk is one
(a) which makes the disclosure required by subsection (4),
(b) which makes that disclosure in a manner which would be reasonably clear 
and accessible to a prudent insurer, and
(c) in which every material representation as to a matter of fact is substantially 
correct, and every material representation as to a matter of expectation or belief 
is made in good faith.
(4) The disclosure required is as follows, except as provided in subsection (5)
(a)disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to 
know, or
(b) failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a 
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose 
of revealing those material circumstances.
I therefore need to consider whether Mr A failed to disclose a material circumstance that he 
knew or ought to have known.
Its not in dispute that Mr A knew about his second occupation and Accelerant has shown 
that this would be a material circumstance to it offering cover. However, in this particular 
case, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable for Accelerant to avoid Mr As policy on 
the basis that he failed to disclose a material circumstance. 
I say this because while the Act doesnt make reference to a consideration of the questions 
asked, the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that a way of ensuring a 
commercial customer knows what they need to disclose is to have asked clear questions 
about any matter material to the insurance undertaking. I dont think the assumption asked 
by Accelerant indicated that a part-time job is something it wanted to know about and 
therefore I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Accelerant to avoid Mr As policy 
because of it. Ill explain why. 
Accelerant said Mr A bought his policy through a broker who agreed to an assumptions 
screen on Mr As behalf. The assumption screen provided by Accelerant says: 
The proposer is a FULL TIME courier, carrying mail, parcels and 
packages
Accelerant has said that as Mr A had a second occupation, hes answered this incorrectly 
because if someone has a full-time occupation then they wouldnt be able to have a second 
occupation. However, I dont agree. The term full-time isnt defined or explained on the 
assumptions screen. And when looking at the normal everyday meaning, I think most people 
would define themselves as full-time if they worked around 35 hours or more in one job/role. 
Its therefore possible to have a full-time occupation and have a second different occupation. Mr A explained that his main full-time occupation is a courier and that he occasionally does 
another job, on a zero hours contract basis, which doesnt involve using the van insured on 
this policy. He also said hed only done this other job 4 or 5 times before the incident 
involving his van. Im therefore satisfied that Mr A answered the assumptions screen 
correctly and gave Accelerant the correct answer to the question it asked. 
Ive also considered Accelerants point about the broker Mr A used knowing it would want to 
know about a second occupation. It said this is because the broker guidance says that 
second occupations may be considered, when providing cover, but need to be referred to 
the underwriter. While the broker was Mr As agent in buying the policy, Im not persuaded 
the guidance made it clear that a zero hours contract work, which had only been done 
occasionally, needed to be declared to Accelerant when taking out the policy. And so, it 
follows Im not persuaded it was clear enough that Mr A or his broker needed to declare this 
to Accelerant. 
Accelerant has also said Mr A hasnt disclosed that he had access to another vehicle. While 
I can see his other job does involves driving customers cars, as this wasnt the reason 
Accelerant avoided his policy, Ive not considered the access to other vehicles further in this 
decision.
Im therefore not satisfied that Accelerant has shown Mr A failed to disclose a material 
circumstance by agreeing with the assumptions screen. It follows that Im not persuaded 
Accelerant has shown Mr A made what is known as a qualifying breach and therefore 
Accelerant has no remedies under the Act. Its possible that my decision might be different to 
one which a court would make but I have to consider what is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. And in this case, I do not think its fair and reasonable for Accelerant to avoid 
Mr As policy and decline his claim when he correctly responded to the assumptions it had 
set out. 
As Im not persuaded Accelerant acted fairly by declining Mr As claim and avoiding his 
policy, Ive looked at what it needs to do to correct this. Accelerant therefore needs to 
remove the avoidance from any internal and external databases and settle Mr As claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. As Accelerant is reinstating the policy then it 
will be entitled to charge the premium as this had previously been refunded. 
Mr A also explained that as Accelerant declined his claim and avoided his policy it affected 
his job and his ability to earn a living. He also said this in turn caused him considerable 
stress and anxiety. Our investigator recommended Accelerant compensate Mr A £750 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount in 
the circumstances when considering the impact of Mr As policy being avoided. Accelerant 
therefore needs to pay Mr A £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Accelerant Insurance Limited to:
1. Reinstate Mr As policy and remove any records of its avoidance from any internal 
and external databases. 
2. Settle Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
3. Pay Mr A £750 for distress and inconvenience
As the policy is being reinstated Accelerant Insurance Limited is able to charge the policy premium it refunded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman