DRN-2642518
The complaint
Mr W complains about his credit card with Vanquis Bank Limited. Mr W says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and is also unhappy with the credit limit increases on the card. 
Mr W is being represented by a third party. 
What happened
In March 2011 Mr W took out a credit card with Vanquis. It started with a credit limit of £250 
and this increased in November 2011 to £500, July 2012 to £1,500, January 2013 to £2,500 
and finally in August 2013 to £3,000.
Mr W complained to Vanquis, as he said he was in financial difficulty when he was first given 
the card. Mr W went on to say that no affordability assessment was completed at each limit 
increase, and this added to the financial difficulty he found himself in. 
Vanquis looked into he complaint but found most of it to be out of time. It said the events Mr 
W is now complaining about happened over six years ago. And Mr W ought to have been 
aware of his cause for complaint over three years before the complaint was raised. It said in 
2016 when Mr W went into a debt management plan, he wouldve been aware something 
had gone wrong with the sale and limit increases. 
Vanquis did look into some of Mr Ws complaint. Vanquis investigated how Mr Ws account 
had been handled since it was made aware of his financial difficulties. On this point it didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said it had decreased interest on the card and had also given details 
of external organisations that could offer Mr W support. It felt that as Mr W had defaults on 
the agreement he signed, it was fair that this was reported accurately. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so his representative brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but also found that most of the complaint fell 
outside of the timescales that allow us to investigate a complaint. Our investigator found the 
sale of the card and all the limit increases were outside of the six-year timeframe. He also 
found that Mr W ought reasonably to have been aware he had a complaint over three years 
before he complained. Our investigator found the complaint ought to have been made in  
2016 when Mr W entered into a repayment plan. 
Mr W said he had exceptional circumstances which meant he didnt make his complaint in 
time. He said he didnt think he could complain in 2016, as he was receiving help from a 
third-party debt management company. Our investigator considered this point but didnt find 
Mr Ws exceptional circumstances prevented him from raising a complaint sooner. 
Our investigator did find we could look at Mr Ws complaint about how the account had been 
handled by Vanquis within the last six years. This point was investigated but not upheld. Our 
investigator found that interest and charges had been refunded by Vanquish when Mr W 
Vanquis Bank Limitedmade it aware of his financial difficulty in 2015. It also went on to charge no further interest 
and didnt default the account - until Mr W stopped making payments in 2020. 
Mr W and his representative didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been 
passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I can investigate the merits of this complaint or express my thoughts on how best it 
should be resolved, I must have the power to do so. And that means I need to reach a 
conclusion on whether this complaint was referred to us within the time limits that apply in 
our rules. 
The general time limits that apply are set out in the DISP (Dispute Resolution) rules. DISP 
2.8.2R says: The ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: (2) more than 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint. Unless the complainant referred 
the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within that period and has a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been received. 
More than six years have passed since the credit card was sold in 2011. Ive also found that 
all of the limit increases are outside of the six-year timeframe. All parties in this complaint 
agree to this fact. So, what I must decide is whether Mr W were aware, or ought reasonably 
to have been aware, that he had cause for complaint more than three years before the 
complaint was made.
Mr W has said that he didnt complain as a debt management company was helping him with 
his financial difficulties. Ive considered this point carefully, but I dont find that prevented Mr 
W from raising his complaint, or that he didnt have an awareness that something had gone 
wrong. It was clear at this point in 2016 that Mr W was struggling to repay his card, and I find 
at this point he ought to have been aware something went wrong with both the sale and the 
increases, especially given he has told us he was already in debt when the card was sold to 
him. I also dont find the intervention of the third-party debt company wouldve prevented this 
complaint being raised. I say that as they only arranged a lower payment and hadnt actually 
looked into or supported Mr W with what might have gone wrong. So, an investigation 
wouldve still been needed. 
So unfortunately, I dont find the events complained about regarding the sale or the limit 
increase are points our service can consider  as they were brought too late. 
As with the investigator, I have found there are points within the last six years that our 
service can investigate, and I can issue a final decision on. Having considered these, I wont 
be upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
In September 2015 Mr W made a payment arrangement with Vanquis and in September 
2016 went into a debt management plan. The plan reduced his monthly payments 
considerably and at that point Vanquis was excepting a payment of £5.98 a month. At this point in time Vanquish also stopped adding interest and charges to Mr Ws balance - 
and this is largely in line with what we would expect a business to do once a consumer has 
notified it of their financial difficulties. Vanquis also put Mr W in touch with various 
organisations that could support him with his spending. 
Vanquis allowed Mr W to continue with the payment plan up until December 2019, when Mr 
W stopped making payments altogether. At this point Vanquis issued a default. Although it 
must have been frustrating to be in payment plan for that long to then receive a default. If no 
payments are received on the account, Im satisfied Vanquish were fair and within the terms 
of the account when applying the default. 
Given the overall actions of Vanquis and how they handled Mr Ws account when they were 
notified of his financial difficulties, Im satisfied they treated Mr W fairly and in line with what 
we would expect. 
In summary, Ive found Mr Ws complaint about the sale and the limit increases to be out of 
time. I also havent found Vanquis done anything wrong when dealing with his account after 
he notified it of his financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman