DRN-2791938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint relates to National Westminster Bank Plcs actions when they 
were redeeming their mortgage and home purchase loan. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a repayment mortgage with NatWest in 2003. The mortgage was for 
£135,000 over a 13 year term.
In November 2007 they changed the mortgage onto an interest only basis. And they also 
took out a home purchase loan with NatWest for £96,500 over a 9 year term on a repayment 
basis.
In November 2018 Mr B contacted NatWest. He explained that he wanted to transfer to a 
lifetime mortgage and take equity release. And he requested a redemption statement.
There was also on-going recovery action at this time. In December 2018 NatWest obtained a 
56 day possession order, enforceable from 1 February 2019.
A redemption statement was sent to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors on 17 January 2019. And the 
solicitors contacted NatWest to query whether this was for both the interest only mortgage 
and the home purchase loan. NatWest confirmed that the redemption statement was for both 
accounts. But this was an error, as the redemption statement only covered the interest only 
mortgage.
The interest only mortgage was redeemed on 24 January 2019. And NatWest subsequently 
tried to contact Mr and Mrs B to discuss the home purchase loan but was unable to make 
contact.
NatWest sent a redemption statement for the home purchase loan to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor 
on 30 January 2019.
NatWest continued to try to make contact with Mr and Mrs B via phone and letter in February 
2019. And it contacted their solicitor in March 2019. 
Mr B contacted NatWest on 1 May 2019 as he had received an eviction notice. And he 
explained that he would have redeemed the home purchase loan in January 2019, along 
with the other account, if he had known it was outstanding. Mr and Mrs B redeemed the 
home purchase loan the same day.
NatWest accepted that its staff member had misadvised Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors. It 
apologised. And it paid them a total of £480.46. This was made up as follows:
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused;
£330.46 to reimburse interest accrued on the loan after January 2019.
NatWest also amended Mr and Mrs Bs credit file to show that the homeowner loan was 
settled in full on 24 January 2019.
Mr B subsequently complained that they hadnt been made aware sooner about changes in 
the amount owing to the bank. But NatWest didnt uphold this complaint. 
Although the account was redeemed in May 2019, it wasnt closed until November 2019. 
Mr and Mrs B raised a separate complaint about this. And NatWest agreed it had taken too 
long to close the account. It explained that it had taken longer than usual to complete 
internal checks and confirmed that the Bank covered any interest that would have accrued. 
And it also sent Mr and Mrs B a £50 voucher to apologise for the error.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with the compensation they had received, and brought their 
complaint to this service. But our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should 
be upheld. He said, in summary, that while NatWest had made errors he was satisfied that 
they had been put back into the position they should have been in. And he felt that the 
overall figure of £200 offered was a fair reflection of the trouble and upset they had been 
caused.
Mr and Mrs B dont agree with our investigators view, and have asked for their complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the circumstances of this complaint Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, so will explain in more detail why Ive come to 
this decision.
Redemption of home owner loan
NatWest has accepted that its staff member made an error when they told Mr and Mrs Bs 
solicitors that the redemption statement sent on 17 January 2019 was for both the interest 
only mortgage and the home purchase loan. NatWest has apologised, and paid Mr and 
Mrs B £150 compensation. It also reimbursed interest accrued on the homeowner loan after 
January 2019 and amended Mr and Mrs Bs credit file to show that the loan was redeemed 
on 24 January 2019, the same day as the mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B feel that the compensation paid to them isnt sufficient to 
compensate them for the distress and inconvenience they suffered, in particular when they 
received an eviction notice without warning. But, although Ive considered what they have to 
say, Im satisfied that NatWest did try to contact Mr and Mrs B for several months before 
issuing the eviction notice. And Im also satisfied that the actions NatWest took after Mr B 
got in contact cancelling the eviction order, repaying interest accrued after January 2019 
and amending Mr and Mrs Bs credit record - put them back in the position they would have 
been in had they repaid the homeowner loan on 24 January 2019. Im also satisfied that the 
£150 compensation NatWest paid is reasonable in the circumstances.Issues relating to outstanding balance
Mr and Mrs B also complained that NatWest told them in October 2018 that the total amount 
owed was around £128,000 and then in December 2019 that it was £139,000. And they said 
that it took a long time for NatWest to supply them with further information requested at the 
December 2018 court hearing.
As our investigator has explained, it is not the role of this service to audit accounts. But I 
have looked at the transaction history, and I see that there were missed payments, 
capitalisation of arrears and also legal fees after October 2018, which would have increased 
the account balance. So Ive not seen anything to suggest that NatWest has treated Mr and 
Mrs B unfairly.
NatWest says, and I accept, that it supplied the further information regarding the accounts in 
24 December 2018 and 27 December 2018. So while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B did not 
receive the information until mid-January, Im not persuaded that this delay was due to 
NatWests error.
Delay in closing homeowner purchase loan account
Although the homeowner purchase loan account was redeemed in May 2019, the account 
wasnt closed until November 2019. NatWest agrees that this took longer than Mr and Mrs B 
might reasonably expect. It has covered any interest that would have accrued and it also 
sent Mr and Mrs B a £50 voucher as an apology for the error. 
Im satisfied that NatWest took steps to put Mr and Mrs B back into the position they would 
have been in if it had closed the account promptly. And Im persuaded that the compensation 
of £50 in vouchers is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman