DRN-2571457
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank Plc wouldnt refund a payment it 
disputed on its credit card account.
What happened
T paid £1,375 for a training course in March 2019 to a merchant. The director of T took the 
course in June 2019. He didnt pass and T requested a refund from the merchant as it said 
that there was an exam pass guarantee. T didnt receive a response and raised this with 
Barclays.
The payment was temporarily refunded, and Barclays asked T for more information about 
the training course. But it then told T that it didnt have chargeback rights. The merchants 
terms and conditions stated that the guarantee was that if the exam was not passed then it 
could be taken again  not that the cost would be refunded. And it said that T would need to 
pursue this with the merchant.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. T had authorised the credit 
card payment to the merchant. Hed seen a copy of its terms and conditions, and these 
stated that:
[name of merchant] offers Exam Pass Guarantee to our students who complete our course 
training. We offer a voucher (free of charge) to the students to retake the exam in case they 
fail
So, he didnt think that Barclays had made a mistake by not raising a chargeback. And as 
the agreement was with T, a limited company, it didnt have rights under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to make a claim to Barclays for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the merchant.
T didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im looking here at whether Barclays should have done more to try to help T obtain a refund 
of the payment for the course. 
Because T made the payment by card it could ask Barclays to raise a chargeback under the 
relevant card scheme. While thats not a right we would generally expect a chargeback to be 
pursued if there were grounds to do so. But here I have to agree that the terms of the exam 
pass guarantee werent that T would be due a refund. They were that the course could be 
taken again. So, I dont think that there was an applicable chargeback reason and so that 
even if a chargeback had been raised there was any likely prospect of success. Here 
Barclays allowed T time to provide evidence and in the meantime had refunded the 
payment. It then re-debited this, and I dont find it made any mistake.
Im afraid as our investigator has said there wasnt another basis for T, a limited company to 
pursue this further with Barclays. Section 75 rights under the CCA dont apply to a limited 
companys credit card agreement.
The director clearly genuinely believed that having taken the course and the exam then T 
would be due a refund for him not passing. But thats something he would need to pursue 
with the merchant not Barclays. I know he will be disappointed when I say that I dont have a 
basis to require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman