DRN-1996012
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt got a copy of his original loan agreement and 
that he believes he has now paid off the outstanding balance.
 
What happened
In February 2013 Mr B was approved for a small business loan with HSBC. The loan was for 
£25,000 over 114 months with monthly repayments of £319.83 a month. 
At the start of 2020 Mr F asked HSBC to send him a copy of his original loan agreement. 
HSBC responded on 16 January 2020 to say it hadnt been able to locate the loan 
agreement. Mr F then complained and said that because HSBC couldnt produce the original 
loan agreement he wasnt required to repay the rest of the balance.
HSBC responded on 24 January 2020 and apologised for being unable to provide the loan 
agreement. HSBC sent Mr F a cheque for £250 to apologise but said Mr F was still liable for 
the outstanding balance. Mr F referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. She agreed with HSBC and said it was reasonable for it to continue to request 
repayment in line with the loan terms he had agreed. Mr F asked to appeal so his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see HSBC hasnt been able to provide the original loan agreement and Mr F feels that 
means it cant legally pursue him for the outstanding balance. Whilst the absence of the loan 
agreement may mean that HSBC cant enforce the debt in court, this service looks at 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. My decision will relate to whether HSBC is acting 
fairly and reasonably by asking Mr F to repay the funds he borrowed. 
I understand Mr Fs loan agreement isnt available. But theres lots of other information 
available that shows the basis on which Mr F borrowed £25,000 from HSBC. Ive seen 
details of Mr Fs application, statements HSBC has sent him over the years and systems 
information showing the term, interest rate, payments and balance of the loan. Taking 
everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied Mr F borrowed £25,000 and agreed to make 
113 repayments at £319.83 a month (with the first payment being £320.76). 
Mr F doesnt dispute that he borrowed money from HSBC or that hes been making monthly 
repayments. I understand the basis of Mr Fs complaint is that the debt isnt legally 
enforceable. As Ive said above, this service considers complaints on a fair and reasonable 
basis. 
Im satisfied Mr F agreed to borrow £25,000 from HSBC and repay it over 114 months in line 
with the payments hes been making. I think its fair that HSBC asks Mr F to repay the funds 
he borrowed. 
HSBC sent Mr F a cheque for £250 to apologise for being unable to find his loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that £250 fairly reflects the impact of this issue on Mr F so Im not going to tell 
HSBC to increase the award or take any further action. If Mr F didnt cash the cheque and no 
longer has it, he can contact HSBC directly to request a replacement if he now wishes to 
accept. Alternatively, our investigator can request a replacement cheque as required.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman