DRN-3179018
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that Xbridge Limited didnt add business 
interruption insurance to its commercial insurance policy. 
Mrs H, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. 
What happened
B held a commercial insurance policy through Xbridge. In 2018 B asked Xbridge to add 
business interruption insurance to its policy as a mid-term adjustment. Xbridge did this, but 
at the policy renewal in 2019 the business interruption cover wasnt included in the policy. 
Xbridges error was discovered in 2020 when B called to enquire about claiming on its policy 
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. B thought that Xbridge had been negligent in not adding business interruption 
cover at the renewal and complained. 
Xbridge accepted theyd made an error but said Bs claim wouldnt have been covered by 
the insurer even if business interruption insurance had been correctly added. Xbridge 
reinstated the cover and offered B £50 compensation. 
B rejected this offer and brought its complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
Xbridge had offered enough to compensate for their error as she didnt think the policy would 
have provided cover even if it had been included in the policy. 
B asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said Xbridge didnt highlight any part of the policy 
when they added business interruption insurance in 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Xbridge made an error by not including business interruption 
insurance in Bs policy at the renewals in 2019. However, I think Xbridges offer is sufficient 
to compensate for what went wrong, Ill explain why. 
While Xbridge made an error, it doesnt automatically follow that they should compensate B. 
Instead, I look to see what would most likely have happened if Xbridge had done what they 
should have done. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy that would have been in place if Xbridge 
had correctly included business interruption insurance at the 2019 renewal and I can see 
that it wouldnt have provided cover for Bs claim. I say that because to trigger cover under 
the core business interruption section of the policy or a number of the additional covers there 
needed to have been damage to property, and the interruption to Bs business wasnt 
caused by damage to property. The policy also included additional cover for public 
emergency but B closed because of Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
national pandemic rather than because of a closure by a police authority due to a danger or 
disturbance in the vicinity of its premises. So I dont think Xbridge caused B a financial loss 
as its claim wouldnt have been paid even if the error hadnt occurred.  
As there wouldnt have been cover under the policy that would have been in place, Ive gone 
on to consider any other impact of the mistake on B. While I can understand it would have 
been frustrating for Mrs H, as Bs director, to find that Xbridge had made an error, B is the 
eligible complainant. So, I can only consider the inconvenience of the error on B. While B 
had the inconvenience of raising the issue and getting the cover reinstated, I dont think its 
caused such significant inconvenience for me to award any further compensation. For that 
reason, Im satisfied Xbridges offer of £50 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. 
Ive also considered Bs complaint that Xbridge didnt highlight relevant parts of the policy 
when they added business interruption insurance to the policy in February 2018.
Ive seen a screenshot of an email Xbridge sent to B in February 2018 which included a link 
to its policy documents. Xbridge said the links are only live for 24 hours so they havent been 
able to provide an exact copy of what B would have seen when clicking through the link. 
However, they have provided a screenshot of what they said B would have seen and Im 
persuaded this is most likely accurate. The policy documents that B would have seen 
included the Policy wording, a Policy Summary document (which sets out any key features 
of the policy) and a Policy Schedule (which includes any policy endorsements). So Im 
satisfied that Xbridge provided B with the relevant information at that time. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome B was hoping for, given that Xbridge made a mistake in 
not adding business interruption insurance to Bs policy at renewal in 2019, however, I dont 
think I can fairly require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Xbridge Limiteds offer to pay B £50 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So Xbridge Limited should pay B £50 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman