DRN-3077153
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as N, is unhappy with how The Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc (RBS) managed various aspects of their ongoing business relationship.  
What happened
In April 2009, N was transferred to RBSs Global Restructuring Group (GRG) on the basis
that RBS had concerns with the financial position of an unrelated business run by Ns then
company secretary  who subsequently became a director of N in October 2009.
N wasnt happy about this, so it raised a complaint. RBS looked at Ns complaint and agreed
that the concerns it had about Ns then company secretarys other unrelated business wasnt
a reasonable justification for transferring Ns business relationship to GRG. So, RBS upheld
Ns complaint and issued an apology to it.
N wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, and it felt that after its transfer to GRG that GRG
had made unreasonable demands on it as a business and that GRG had behaved
inappropriately. N also felt that GRG declined proposals for repayment and that N were
compelled to sell properties that the bank had charges over. A tax bill was also received
because of these sales and there were also unreasonable estate agent fees. N also believe
that GRG stopped it from operating as a business, and N is unhappy with the frequent
changes of Relationship Managers (RMs) that took place during its time with GRG. So, N
referred its complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that GRG hadnt acted unfairly
or unreasonably in how it had managed Ns ongoing business relationship, so they didnt
uphold Ns complaint.
N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision letter on this complaint on 26 August 2021 as follows:
N has provided a number of detailed submissions to this service in relation to this 
complaint. Id like to thank N for providing these submissions, and I hope that N 
doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be replying to a similar level of detail 
here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this 
complaint, in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service.
As such, if N feels that I havent addressed a specific point that its raised, it shouldnt 
be taken that I havent read and considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both N and RBS  but rather that I 
have read and considered that point but dont feel it necessary to directly address 
that point in order to arrive at what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint.
I also must also draw attention to the fact that I wasnt present at any face to face 
meetings, and this service hasnt been provided with any recordings of telephone 
calls, which means that Im unable to base my decision on what may have been said 
in person or during telephone conversations. By necessity, this means that my 
decision here is based on the information that I have available to me, including the 
testimonies of both parties and the documentary evidence provided to this service.
N believes that it incurred consequential losses as a result of its transfer to GRG, 
which RBS have already acknowledged shouldnt have taken place on the basis of 
the concerns that prompted RBS to initiate the transfer.
I can appreciate Ns position here  to a degree. However, for me to consider that N 
did incur consequential losses as a result of its being transferred to GRG, Id need to 
be satisfied that Ns transfer to GRG was accompanied by a detrimental change in 
how its ongoing business relationship was managed.
I say this because if there was no reasonable change in how Ns business 
relationship was managed - such that the business relationship continued to be 
managed in a similar manner to how it was managed before the transfer to GRG - 
then it cant be the case that the losses to which N refers can be considered as 
having resulted as a consequence of its being transferred to GRG.
And, having reviewed all the information available to me, Im not convinced that 
theres any evidence that there was a change in how Ns business relationship was 
managed following Ns transfer to GRG.
Ns borrowing from RBS consisted of a loan facility and two overdraft facilities. 
Following the transfer to GRG in 2009 these facilities remained unchanged and 
continued to be managed on the same basis as before the transfer. The loan 
repayment schedule wasnt amended in any way at the insistence of the bank, and 
the overdraft facilities continued to be reviewed annually and renewed, even though 
there were several occasions where the facilities expired without an agreed plan for 
future use and repayment.
Following Ns transfer to GRG, various proposals were put forward by N and the 
bank, mainly concerning the overdraft facilities which both had significant outstanding 
balances. However, its evident that in all instances these remained suggestions, and 
its notable that on many occasions, suggestions made by the bank to N were 
declined by N, and vice versa. And its similarly evident that a reasonable level of 
dialogue remained in place between N and the bank regarding Ns ongoing facilities. 
As such, its very difficult for me to conclude that Ns transfer to GRG resulted in a 
notable change to how Ns business relationship was managed by the bank, and 
therefore I find it difficult to conclude that N incurred consequential losses as a result 
of that transfer.
N has also stated that RBS made unreasonable repayment demands following Ns 
transfer to GRG. Its evident from the information available to me that the bank did 
make several suggestions in relation to the overdraft facilities, which as mentioned 
were largely maintained by N with a significant outstanding balance but having 
considered these suggestions Im not convinced that any of them could be fairly 
thought of as being unreasonable.Its notable that it was often that case that N wasnt meeting the terms of its ongoing
agreement with the bank. This included N not providing financial information to N that 
was a condition of the ongoing agreement, as well as allowing the overdrafts to lapse 
without a plan in place for future management of those overdrafts.
Having reviewed all the information available to me, the only instances where I feel 
that N might consider that the bank was making unreasonable repayment demands 
were when the bank was advising of the potential consequences of N continuing to 
not meet the terms of its ongoing agreement. And I dont consider that it was 
unreasonable for the bank to have taken the position that it did at these times, given 
the significant level of debt that N had drawdown.
N have said that RBS compelled them to sell assets in order to reduce the level of
outstanding borrowing. However, while Ive seen that the bank did propose asset 
sales in order to reduce the balances outstanding, primarily on the overdrafts, Ive not 
seen any instances where the bank proposed the sale of specific assets and then 
insisted that those sales take place. Indeed, its apparent that on many occasions N 
didnt agree with the proposals put forward by the bank and sought alternative 
solutions.
Furthermore, when properties were sold, it remained the case that the bank 
discussed with N  as opposed to insisting to N  on how the proceeds from the 
sales should be distributed to reduce the balance outstanding on Ns accounts.
It also must be remembered that RBS was, at all times, entitled to have made 
suggestions to N to reduce the amount of outstanding borrowing across Ns facilities 
based on the banks ongoing assessment of, and appetite for, risk. This means that I 
dont consider the suggestions made by RBS to N in relation to asset sales proposed 
to reduce the outstanding balances on Ns account to be unreasonable or out of line 
with the remit of RBS in its role as the lender.
N have also complained that RBS didnt give due consideration to proposals that N 
made to the bank for the ongoing management of strategy of Ns accounts. Again, 
having reviewed the information available to me, I havent found any evidence of this.
Indeed, from what Ive seen, on the occasions where RBS didnt agree with 
proposals made by N it wasnt the case that these proposals werent looked at, but 
rather than the bank considered the proposals by N but rejected them on reasonable 
grounds such as, for instance, because the proposals put forwards by N werent 
compatible with the terms of their ongoing agreements. Its also notable that several 
proposals put forwards by N were later changed by N itself, before the original 
proposal could be initiated.
N has stated that GRG behaved badly including that the advice given to it by the 
bank exposed it to the possibility of receiving a significant tax bill. The incident in 
question here relates to when the bank suggested to N that proceeds from a recent 
asset sale should be used to reduce the balance on the overdrafts, instead of the 
loan as N had originally intended.
Having reviewed the correspondence between the bank and N relating to this issue, 
its evident that the bank specifically drew Ns attention to the possibility that a tax bill 
might be incurred as a result and advised N that they would need to seek advice from 
their accountant before the proposed overdraft reductions would be allowed to take 
place.As such, Im satisfied that the bank didnt expose N to the possibility of a significant 
tax bill in the manner that N has intimated here. Similarly, having reviewed all the 
information available to me, I struggle to find examples of what might be reasonably 
be considered as bad behaviour on the part of the bank.
N has also complained that RBS changed their RM unnecessarily frequently, causing 
it avoidable disruption as a result. I can appreciate how a business would want to 
maintain a constant point of contact with a bank, but natural movement and attrition 
of staff often mean that this isnt possible.
In this instance I note that there were nine different RMs assigned to N over a period 
of approximately nine years. While this number is higher than is usually seen, I dont 
consider that this was as a result of any malicious intent on the part of the bank and I 
dont feel that any censure or compensation is merited regarding this point.
Finally, N have also state that GRG unreasonably instructed a security review without 
N's consent and then passed the cost for this review on to N. This relates to a 
security review fee of £2.049.62 that was debited from N's account by the bank in 
September 2010 for a security review that N hadn't consented to.
In their response to N's GRG complaint issued on 29 April 2019, RBS upheld this 
aspect of N's complaint and offered a reimbursement of the security fee along with 
8% interest calculated until 2 July 2019. However, as N didn't accept RBS's 
complaint response - because N didn't agree with other aspects of that response - 
the offered amount wasn't paid to N.
N have stated that, given that RBS have acknowledged that they took funds from N's
account without N's consent, the returning of those funds by RBS to N shouldn't be
dependent on N also agreeing to other aspects of RBS's complaint response.
I find N's reasoning to be convincing here, and so I will be provisionally upholding this 
aspect of N's complaint only, and my provisional instruction to RBS will be that they 
must reimburse to N the fee of £2,049.62 along with 8% interest - recalculated from 
the date that the fee was first taken to whatever date RBS complete the 
reimbursement to N.
However, I must draw N's attention here to the limitations of this service in this 
regard. Specifically, should it be the case once I have issued a final decision on this 
complaint that N doesn't accept that final decision, then the findings of that decision  
which may include the reimbursement instructions to RBS described above - will not 
be legally binding on RBS.
Conversely, it also must be drawn to Ns attention that should it choose to accept my
provisional decision and should that subsequently become a final decision, N can 
only accept my decision by accepting the decision as a whole - which may potentially 
mean that it would be unlikely, for instance, that N would be able to pursue the 
aspects of my decision that it disagrees with in the courts. If N are unsure of the 
potential ramifications of accepting my decision in this regard, I would encourage it to 
seek appropriate professional advice.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that N wanted here, but I hope that N will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the provisional decision 
that I have.In my provisional decision letter, I gave both N and RBS the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. RBS confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas N 
requested an extension beyond the 30-day period initially provided for further comments to 
be submitted on the basis that N were waiting for relevant documents from this service 
before they could proceed. 
Having considered Ns request, I didnt feel that an extension should be granted in this 
instance, and this is because this service has already informed N that some of the 
documents it was requesting werent available as they were no longer held by this service 
and also because Im satisfied that the other documents which N was referencing wouldnt 
have any material impact on the outcome that Ive arrived at here and which Im satisfied is 
fair.
As such, N was informed that its request for an extension wasnt granted and following this I 
see no reason not to uphold this complaint on the limited basis explained in my provisional 
decision letter above. 
 
Putting things right
RBS must make a payment to N of £2,049.62 as reimbursement of the security fee, along 
with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the fee was taken by RBS to the date of the 
payment to N.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman