DRN-2479099
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his claim for a damaged TV 
under his contents insurance policy.
All references to AXA include their appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive considered Mr S policy terms and Im satisfied that AXAs liability extends to 
replacing items which have been accidently damaged  in this case Mr S TV. AXAs 
initial settlement offer was to replace Mr S TV with a new, like-for-like model of the 
same specification. Mr S then chose to upgrade his TV instead and pay the 
difference to AXAs supplier. AXA agreed to this and Im satisfied this was a fair way 
to settle the claim.
Mr S is unhappy that AXA wont pay for a new wall bracket. He says his existing wall 
bracket wont support the new, larger TV. AXA says that the existing wall bracket 
wasnt damaged and would have supported a like-for-like replacement, so it wont 
refund the cost to Mr S under this claim. Having considered Mr S policy and AXAs 
liability above, I agree that it wouldnt be reasonable to require AXA to replace an 
item that hasnt been damaged, and further isnt required for the TV to function. And 
as Mr S chose to upgrade his TV its likely he would have required a new wall bracket 
in any event. So Im not going to require AXA to pay for this item.  
I understand Mr S was upset as he took time off work to arrange delivery of the TV 
on more than one occasion. And that he suffered distress by not being able to use 
the new TV as it was delivered with some parts missing. AXA has arranged for the 
missing parts to be replaced, and Im satisfied AXA corrected this issue in a timely 
manner.
AXA has paid a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. This includes some delays in accepting the claim and for the overall service 
provided. Based on everything Ive seen, I think AXAs offer of compensation is 
reasonable for the upset caused to Mr S during the claim, so Im not going to require 
it to do anything more.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman