DRN-2784412
The complaint
The estate of M complains about the length of time Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took 
to process an instruction to encash an investment ISA.
What happened
The late Mr M held an investment ISA with Barclays. A valuation was received for probate 
purposes in March 2019. In February 2020 Mr J, acting on behalf of the estate, gave 
instructions for a request to be made to encash the ISA. Solicitors acting on behalf of the 
estate wrote to Barclays on 27 February 2020. The request was received on 3 March 2020 
and the date of settlement was 16 March 2020. 
Mr J, on behalf of the estate, says that Barclays took too long to process the request. As a 
result of the delay, the value of the underlying investments dropped significantly causing a 
financial loss. In addition, Mr J complains about the lack of response from Barclays to his 
complaint points and general poor service.
Barclays maintain that they processed the request within a reasonable period, taking into 
account working days, with the trades being executed on 12 March 2020. Having reviewed 
the history of correspondence, Barclays now accept there were delays in responding to Mr J, 
acting on behalf of the estate. Theyve offered him £300 in total to compensate for any 
distress caused.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She noted that this type of request can take up to 
30 days to process. In this instance, she was satisfied that Barclays had processed the 
request within a reasonable period. As this was an investment ISA, the value was dependent 
on the markets and it had already dropped in value by over £6000 since the probation 
valuation was given. It was unfortunate that the request came at a time of huge market 
volatility, which was unforeseen.
Our investigator noted there was a delay by Barclays in responding to Mr J and the 
compensation offered was in line with complaints of a similar nature.
Mr J, acting on behalf of the estate, disagrees with this outcome. The matter has now come 
to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to acknowledge Mr Js strength of feeling about this matter, its clear that 
this matter has caused a great deal of distress at a difficult time. Id like to extend my 
condolences. I understand Mr Js disappointment, on behalf of the estate, that the value of 
the investments had fallen since the probate figure was give. But Ive had to consider 
whether any financial loss occurred as a result of Barclays doing anything wrong.
Barclays received the instruction to encash the ISA on 3 March 2020, the respective trades 
were undertaken on 12 March 2020, with settlement on 16 March 2020. Thats a period of 
nine days or seven working days. I appreciate that Mr J feels the request should have been 
processed faster, but its a matter for Barclays to decide how they process requests to 
encash an ISA. As a service, we have no regulatory or disciplinary role, which means we 
cannot tell a business how to operate. In this instance, the timeframes were not 
unreasonable.
Its unfortunate that the request was processed at a time when the markets were highly 
volatile, which impacted on the final settlement figure, but this was a matter entirely outside 
of Barclays control. On balance, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong.
Mr J has also raised concerns about the distress he suffered due to Barclays delays in 
responding to his correspondence. Barclays have accepted that they fell short on this 
occasion and theyve offered Mr J compensation. But Ive had to consider that the complaint 
is brought by the estate, not by Mr J in his personal capacity. So, we wouldnt look to 
compensate it separately for trouble and upset. Its a matter for Mr J to decide whether or not 
to accept the compensation.
Im sorry to disappoint the estate of Mr M, but I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman