DRN-3153951
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of service hes received from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HLAM). Hes said theyve wasted his time and havent provided him 
with information he requested. 
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go over them in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr J called HLAM on 29 September 2020 to get a detailed breakdown of his Stocks 
and Shares ISA. 
He was told that the information couldnt be provided over the phone immediately but 
HLAM would try to send it later that day, but if not then the following day. 
Mr J then complained to HLAM on 1 October as he hadnt yet received the 
information and he was distressed by not being able to analyse his investments. He 
wanted to be compensated for the time he spent on the matter and for HLAMs 
inability to provide crucial information when requested. 
He also asked for the information to be sent to him within 15 minutes of the phone 
call but was told that wasnt possible.  
The information was subsequently sent to Mr J on 6 October. 
HLAM didnt treat Mr Js concerns as a formal complaint and responded to him 
explaining that while they thought they could have managed his expectations better, 
the information he requested was provided in a timely manner.
Mr J didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators.
The investigator didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He appreciated that 
HLAM didnt send Mr J the requested information as quickly as he wanted them to, 
but despite this thought they provided the information within a reasonable timescale. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint and I will now explain why. Id firstly 
like to say that I appreciate Mr Js frustration  he was told he would receive information the 
following day and didnt get it until a week had passed. So, I then considered if the time 
HLAM took to provide the information to Mr J warrants compensation. 
However, having taken everything into account, I dont think that a timescale of five working 
days was unreasonable, especially considering the amount of information Mr J requested  
daily valuations for 10 different shares over a period of two weeks.   
I can see that when he spoke to HLAM, their representative explained that he was unable to 
provide the requested information there and then as he didnt have access to the relevant 
system, so hed have to pass the query on to another department. He then took time to try 
and explain how Mr J could use the online tools HLAM provided to analyse his shares, and 
also took the time to walk him through how to access the analysis tools. 
I also note that the representative said hed try to get the information to Mr J latest by 
tomorrow, hopefully  so I cant see that any guarantees were made. The evidence Ive 
seen shows that the representative sent the request to provide the information to Mr J later 
that day and asked for it to be sent the following day if possible
So, weighing everything up, I dont think theres much more that HLAM could have done to 
provide Mr J with the information he wanted. Their failing here appears to be not managing 
Mr Js expectations correctly and letting him know that it may take longer than a day to 
provide him with the information he wanted. 
In such circumstances, what this service would expect would be that HLAM would have 
acknowledged what went wrong to Mr J. HLAM did that here, and while I appreciate that Mr 
J may have incurred some stress and inconvenience because of what happened, I feel that 
HLAMs acknowledgement that they could have managed Mr Js expectations better is a fair
and reasonable resolution to this complaint and I dont feel that any form of compensation is
warranted in this instance.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr J wants, but it follows that I wont be
upholding this complaint or instructing HLAM to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman