DRN-4324703
The complaint
Mr R complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
transactions which he disputed. Mr R said he was threatened while in a bar abroad and 
forced to make the payments, and that he had pepper spray thrown in his eyes.
What happened
Mr R was abroad in March 2023 and he used his Halifax credit card to make a number of 
transactions between 24 and 27 March. 
On 28 March, Mr R contacted Halifax. He disputed three of the payments on his account: 
one for £373.54 to a bar, and two payments for £134.34 and £183.73 to another bar. Mr R 
told Halifax that hed been in a bar, and three men threatened him. He also said that the bar 
staff told him his card had been declined and he had to enter his PIN again. Mr R said hed 
done so, but said he hadnt been aware of the amount being charged when hed made the 
payments.  He had both his credit card and mobile in his possession. 
Halifax refused Mr Rs claim for a refund, and Mr R complained. He told Halifax that his other 
bank, and his friends banks, had all provided refunds. Halifax still didnt agree to refund Mr 
R. In Halifaxs final response letter on 11 April, it said that it couldnt establish any point of 
compromise (a way in which someone else might have obtained Mr Rs details). Halifax said 
that it had also considered whether the transactions could be challenged under the card 
schemes regulations. But this wasnt possible because the disputed amounts werent 
duplicates, but were all for different amounts and had been authenticated using the cards 
chip and Mr Rs PIN. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said hed been told the card machines 
were old which was why the amounts didnt show. He said there were threatening big men 
making threats, and on one occasion at the end of the night hed had pepper sprayed in his 
eyes. When Mr R got home, he read that this happened a lot, and there were gangs 
controlling clubs and exploiting visitors. Mr R said hed lost a lot of money, and he felt Halifax 
wasnt believing him because of the nature of the bars and clubs involved, but nothing of the 
sort had happened. He asked our investigator to read the article in the paper. Mr R said he 
wanted an apology, a refund of the money, and interest.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said Mr R had authorised the 
transactions himself. Neither the amounts nor the timings of the transactions would be 
unusual for someone who was away, so she couldnt say Halifax should have noticed 
something wasnt right and should have contacted Mr R before letting the transactions 
through. She also noted that she hadnt been given any evidence of Mr R reporting the 
transactions to the police, or getting medical advice for the pepper sprayed in his eyes. 
Mr R didnt accept this. He said Halifaxs money was insured and his was not, and he found 
it disgusting. Mr R didnt agree that the transactions could pass as normal activity, because 
they took place late at night abroad. Mr R said hed have to pay a lot of interest. He said he 
hadnt attended a hospital as his eyes had been washed out with water in a nearby shop. He 
hadnt spoken to the police because the tour guide had said the police wouldnt do anything 
and were known to take part in these activities. Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
The regulations say that consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between the payer (Mr R) and the payment service provider (Halifax). Its 
agreed that the disputed payments were carried out by Mr R using his card and PIN to make 
the transactions. So he used the form and procedure for making payments. This means that 
he gave consent to the payment transactions. 
Even if Mr R hadnt accepted that hed made the payments himself, it would have been 
necessary to see how someone else could have obtained Mr Rs card and security details 
without Mr R being aware. For example, there are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-
digit PIN, so it couldnt be guessed. 
I realise that Mr R said he wasnt aware of the amounts, and was forced to make the 
payments. But the regulations set out that the customer doesnt have to be fully aware of the 
details of the payment at the time they completed the procedure for giving consent. And if a 
customer has been coerced into making a payment, or deceived about the purpose or 
amount of a payment, it doesnt automatically make the payment unauthorised. So this 
means that Mr R was liable for the payments, because he authorised them, using the 
genuine card and correct PIN.
The payments wouldnt be unusual for a customer in a bar abroad, either in the amount or in 
the time of night when they happened. So I dont consider Halifax should have blocked the 
payments and stopped them going through.
I recognise that when Mr R got home, he said he saw newspaper articles saying that it 
happens a lot that people in bars abroad are forced to make payments. He then complained 
to Halifax, and he said that his friends got refunds from their banks, and he got a refund from 
another bank too. 
But I take my decision on the circumstances of an individual case, not on newspaper articles 
or other peoples cases. Here, Mr R didnt go to the police, or provide any evidence to show 
that he had medical attention after the incidents, which happened in two different bars. He 
also made other payments to the same bars which he said were genuine payments. And, 
most important, he authorised the payments himself, using the genuine card and correct 
PIN. So I find that Mr R is liable for the payments, and Halifax doesnt have to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman