DRN-3042933
The complaint
Mr T complains that Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited (Rowanmoor) failed in its 
regulatory duties to carry out due diligence when accepting his application for a Self- 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says that Rowanmoor failed to verify the integrity of 
the firm that introduced his application (CIB Life and Pensions Limited (CIB)) and should 
now compensate him for the loss he has suffered as a result of the investment in The Resort 
Group (TRG) he made via the SIPP. 
Background
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 setting out the full background to Mr Ts 
complaint and my findings on why I considered it should be upheld.  My provisional decision 
is attached and forms part of this decision.
In summary, my provisional findings were that:
Rowanmoor agreed it was a necessary requirement for consumers to be 
fully advised before it accepted business;
Rowanmoor had some reasons to be concerned about CIB  as CIB had been 
introducing execution only business and the advice it had given on some cases 
had already been flagged by Rowanmoor as needing review;
The business CIB was introducing had anomalous features  large volumes of 
high-risk business for overseas property developments;
Unregulated parties were involved in promoting/marketing TRG;
Despite knowing this, Rowanmoor didnt make appropriate checks of CIBs 
business model and unreasonably relied on a verbal assurance that advice was 
being given about the suitability of investing in TRG;
Had Rowanmoor made reasonable checks, it would have realised that the 
introductions from CIB involved a significant risk of consumer detriment as 
customers were not being advised about TRG;
Rowanmoor should have ceased to accept introductions from CIB before it 
accepted Mr Ts introduction;
In the circumstances, it was fair to ask Rowanmoor to compensate Mr T for 
the loss he has suffered.
The claims management company (CMC) representing Mr T responded confirming that he 
agreed with the provisional decision.  It re-iterated that Mr T believes Rowanmoor failed to 
carry out adequate due diligence on the TRG investment, there was no re-sale market for 
the investment, and it would continue to incur annual charges if Mr T was left with the asset.
Responses were received from both Rowanmoor and the firm of solicitors representing it.
Rowanmoors response
Rowanmoor made a number of representations, but in summary said:
Mr T was a proactive investor and TRG was a bricks and mortar investment asset, 
with a different, but not especially higher, risk profile than equity shareholdings and 
bonds;
The liquidity of the TRG investment is suppressed due to the covid-19 pandemic and 
has fundamentally not failed. It is a tradeable investment with potential for future 
income;
The SIPP is a member-directed scheme in which Rowanmoor, as operator, has a 
functional role of administering investments.  However, Mr T has the legal right to 
invest as he likes as per the contractual relationship between them.  The Court of 
Appeal confirmed  in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA 
Civ 474 (Adams v Options) - that the contractual relationship is materially 
determinative of the respective obligations of each party;
It had sought to confirm that Mr T had received advice, both by seeking and obtaining 
direct acknowledgement from him, and also seeking and obtaining assurance from 
CIB that they were providing clients with appropriate advice on the suitability of SIPP 
investments. And it was entitled to rely upon the assurances from Mr T and CIB.
Its implausible that Mr T didnt understand the risks of his SIPP investment in TRG, 
having self-selected the investment.  And whilst he may be disappointed with the 
performance of his investment, its a revisionist complaint.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) found failures with CIBs 
advice process. However, that failure is not properly or consequentially expressed in 
the provisional decision  nor has any responsibility been assigned to Mr T for his 
current situation. Rowanmoor shouldnt be held solely responsible for the loss as its 
not the responsibility of a SIPP operator to underwrite risk.
Rowanmoor was not allowed or engaged to give advice.  It had no permissions, 
capacity or capability to do so, and its professional indemnity insurance excluded 
advice. It is therefore unreasonable for it to be expected to have reviewed investment 
suitability reports and draw any judgment as to their content  that is the 
responsibility of the regulated advisor.
Rowanmoors representatives response
The solicitors representing Rowanmoor made additional detailed submissions for me to 
consider, but in summary said:
The Adams v Options case has recently been considered by the Court of Appeal and 
it effectively endorsed the part of the first instance judgment upon which 
Rowanmoor relies.
The issues central to this complaint are analogous in all relevant respects to those 
considered by the courts in Adams v Options, and the Principles should be applied 
consistently with COBS.  Whilst they are different parts of the regulatory framework, 
there is no material distinction between the meaning and effect  as COBS 2.1.1R is 
broadly analogous to Principles 2, 3 and 6.In the provisional decision, no distinction was made between the application of COBS 
2.1.1R and Principles 2, 3 and 6.  Reliance was placed upon the Principles to the 
exclusion of analogous obligations under COBS, seemingly to elide the reasoning in 
Adams v Options relating to the weight to be placed upon the contractual relationship 
between the parties.
The Principles cannot be interpreted in isolation  the contractual documents create 
the relevant context in which the Principles inform the due diligence obligations.  Mr T 
signed terms of business accepting to be bound by the rules of the Scheme and 
provided an indemnity that he understood the inherent risks. There is no relevant, 
material, factual basis on which to distinguish Mr Ts complaint from Adams v 
Options, or to justify different outcomes.
Rowanmoors SIPP application form recommended that Mr T seek independent 
financial advice.  He signed the transfer-in form acknowledging hed received 
regulated advice about the TRG investment.  He also signed a letter confirming he 
understood the inherent risks and confirming he wouldnt pursue Rowanmoor for 
losses. Despite this, Rowanmoor was found wholly liable for all of Mr Ts losses.
Nowhere in the provisional decision is effect given to Mr Ts own accountability and 
responsibility. He had signed a reservation form for the TRG investment indicating 
that he intended to fund the investment by way of a SIPP, some six months before 
his application to Rowanmoor. His decision to invest in TRG was therefore one he 
had deliberately taken well before Rowanmoors involvement and its implausible that 
he took the decision without appreciation of the risks involved.
The consequence of the reliance on the Principles to distinguish Adams v Options is 
to impose a wider and more onerous duty of due diligence on Rowanmoor than that 
imposed by the contractual arrangements but also than that which would have 
existed had Mr T not instructed a regulated financial adviser. 
Rowanmoor carried out appropriate and sufficient due diligence on CIB and was 
compliant with the FCAs 2013 Guidance.  It checked CIBs regulatory status and met 
with CIB to discuss its business model and the need to provide advice to clients.  
Rowanmoor was not under an obligation to undertake more or later due diligence.
Subsequent concerns Rowanmoor had about whether CIB was providing advice 
were raised and addressed with CIB and appropriate assurances  upon which 
Rowanmoor was reasonably entitled to rely  provided.
The provisional decision fails to adequately explain the basis for the findings as to 
each of the several wider enquiries regarding CIBs business model that 
Rowanmoor should apparently have carried out. 
In the provisional decision it was concluded that the large volume of high-risk 
investments introduced by CIB was anomalous and should have concerned 
Rowanmoor.  However, there is no explanation as to why 455 applications introduced 
by CIB over two years should have appeared anomalous to Rowanmoor at the time  
nor is there any assessment of any wider context in which those applications arose  
for example, whether they were part of a larger body of applications that CIB 
rejected.
With ten advisers, the 455 applications equate to less than four client applications per adviser per month over two years. Its not clear how the ombudsman arrived at the 
conclusion this was a high volume of business that should have appeared anomalous 
to Rowanmoor.
Under the operating structure of the UK restricted advice market, it is common for 
only a narrow selection of advisers and administrators to be associated with capacity-
limited investment opportunities such as TRG.
It was not unusual that CIB would process a high number of advised introductions 
over a relatively short space of time. The success of commercial property 
developments is determined, in part, by there being a short period between its 
funding and development and operational phases. The volume of introductions to 
Rowanmoor from CIB was consistent with the then prevailing practice in the UK 
restricted advice market and did not  and should not have  given rise to the 
concerns identified in the provisional decision.
The finding that Rowanmoor failed to check with Mr T that he had been fully advised 
was made in error.  Rowanmoor was under no such obligation in context of its 
contractual relationship with Mr T.  In any event, Mr T had expressly acknowledged 
that he had taken advice on his pension transfer when making his application.
The provisional decision concluded that failing to check advice had been given to Mr 
T was a breach of Rowanmoors own policy.  But its policy was to accept 
predominantly advised business, which is different from a policy of requesting copies 
of that advice.  Rowanmoor has never had a policy which required it to check by 
evidence that advice had been given. Rather it sought assurances both from clients 
and from advisers, that they were providing clients with advice on the suitability of 
SIPP investments  and it was reasonably entitled to rely on such assurances.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report does not support the finding that requesting 
copies of suitability letters was good industry practice at the time  no such good 
industry practice existed. In the 2009 Report, the FSA concluded that requesting 
copies of suitability letters was only one of a number of measures that SIPP 
operators could consider, taken from observations and suggestions. This is not 
indicative of a widespread practice of requesting suitability reports in the SIPP 
industry nor is it prescriptive guidance on such a practice.
Whilst Rowanmoor didnt request copies of suitability reports, it did take a number of 
significant alternative steps to ensure the quality of business introduced to it and to 
guard against consumer detriment.
The TRG investment is a substantial and operational resort used by major holiday 
companies. As a bricks and mortar development, it is not so especially high-risk that 
advice to enter it should have alerted Rowanmoor to the risk of consumer detriment.
The risk profile of the TRG investment is a highly relevant consideration in an 
assessment of the level of due diligence that Rowanmoor should have undertaken in 
relation to the SIPP investment applications of Mr T and similar clients. The nature 
and risk of the TRG investment was not such as to require or otherwise indicate that 
Rowanmoor should have requested suitability letters from clients seeking to invest in 
it. Rowanmoor responded appropriately to the risk profile by asking customers to 
obtain appropriate financial advice, offering frank warnings and involving local 
lawyers to obtain valid title to the investment asset.The nature and risk-profile of the TRG investment is central to an assessment of 
Rowanmoors conduct as regards Mr Ts investment.  So, it invites me to consider 
and decide upon Rowanmoors due diligence on the TRG investment.
Although Rowanmoor was provided with some suitability letters by CIB, they were 
provided in the context of a discrete issue about clients awareness of fees payable 
for fractional investments, rather than in the context of any question about the extent 
and quality of advice provided by CIB on the SIPP transfer and investment.  So it 
doesnt follow that the provision of some suitability letters to Rowanmoor should have 
alerted it to the nature and extent of the advice being provided by CIB.
Its neither fair nor reasonable for Rowanmoor to bear full liability for Mr Ts losses, to 
the exclusion of any liability on the part of CIB in particular, but also Mr T.  The 
provisional decision makes no allowance for the roles of Mr T or CIB in causing the 
losses.
There is no valuable remedy for Rowanmoor to pursue against other parties, in view 
of the dissolution of CIB.  So, if there is a finding of fault and liability made against 
Rowanmoor, any award of compensation in favour of Mr T must in effect be shared 
between Rownamoor, CIB and Mr T  and CIB and Mr T should bear the far greater 
share of that liability.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive considered everything again taking account of the 
further comments from all the parties in order to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are attached, and form part of this decision, so I wont repeat all of 
them again here.  I'd like to assure both parties that I've looked at all of their submissions.  
As explained in my provisional decision, I have however concentrated on the key arguments 
and evidence that are material to my determination of the complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems.
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients
and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The specific 
rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but 
specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account 
when deciding this complaint.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of 
the High Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account 
of both these judgments when making this decision. Rowanmoor has made a number of 
submissions in relation to the judgments in Adams v Options and their application to the 
Principles for Businesses, which I will address separately below. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard 
to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to 
ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 
6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the 
individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them 
to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be 
addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the 
position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, 
while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP 
operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not 
safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has 
any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as 
a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder moneyhaving clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships 
and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such 
as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of 
the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing 
the processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks 
to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies 
House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept 
investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firm.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate, to take them into 
account.
Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I dont think the fact that the publications, 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of 
this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not 
good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, 
as did the obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
It is also important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non- exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.Another relevant consideration in this complaint is the regulators alert about advisers 
giving advice to consumers on SIPPs without consideration of the underlying investment to 
be held in the SIPP. The regulator issued an alert in 2013 (Advising on pension transfers 
with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP) setting 
out that this type of restricted advice did not meet regulatory requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing 
the advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the 
new pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers 
retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or 
primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may 
be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as 
part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the 
suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is 
given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall 
proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in 
unregulated schemes.
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
set out the regulators concerns about industry practices at the time. Ill explain the impact 
of this on Mr Ts complaint in my findings.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options did not consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Rowanmoor complied 
with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr T), to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Rowanmoor 
could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Adams v Options and the Principles
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
In response to my provisional decision, Rowanmoor and its representative made a number 
of comments about the judgments in Adams v Options and my findings in relation to the 
Principles. In summary they said:
The SIPP is a member-directed scheme in which Rowanmoor, as operator, has a functional role of administering investments.  However, Mr T has the legal right to 
invest as he likes as per the contractual relationship between them.  The Court of 
Appeal confirmed  in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA 
Civ 474 (Adams v Options) - that the contractual relationship is materially 
determinative of the respective obligations of each party.
The issues central to this complaint are analogous in all relevant respects to those 
considered by the courts in Adams v Options, and the Principles should be applied 
consistently with COBS.  Whilst they are different parts of the regulatory framework, 
there is no material distinction between the meaning and effect  as COBS 2.1.1R is 
broadly analogous to Principles 2, 3 and 6.
In the provisional decision, no distinction was made between the application of COBS 
2.1.1R and Principles 2, 3 and 6.  Reliance was placed upon the Principles to the 
exclusion of analogous obligations under COBS, seemingly to elide the reasoning in 
Adams v Options relating to the weight to be placed upon the contractual relationship 
between the parties.
The Principles cannot be interpreted in isolation  the contractual documents create 
the relevant context in which the Principles inform the due diligence obligations.  Mr T 
signed terms of business accepting to be bound by the rules of the Scheme and 
provided an indemnity that he understood the inherent risks. There is no relevant, 
material, factual basis on which to distinguish Mr Ts complaint from Adams v 
Options, or to justify different outcomes.
The consequence of the reliance on the Principles to distinguish Adams v Options is 
to impose a wider and more onerous duty of due diligence on Rowanmoor than that 
imposed by the contractual arrangements but also than that which would have 
existed had Mr T not instructed a regulated financial adviser.
 
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment.  The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. I remain of the view that neither of these 
judgments say anything about the Principles  or how they apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
 
To be clear, I do not say this means Adams v Options is not a relevant consideration at all. 
As noted above, I have taken account of both judgments where relevant when making this 
decision on Mr Ts case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.
  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.Rowanmoors representative says that I should align my decision in Mr Ts complaint with 
the application of COBS 2.1.1R in Adams v Options. 
 
I note that, in Adams v Options, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would 
inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
However, the facts in Mr Ts case are very different from those in Mr Adams case. There are 
also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and 
from the issues in Mr Ts complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the 
Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship 
between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that 
happened after the contract was entered into. In Mr Ts complaint, I am considering whether 
Rowanmoor ought to have identified that the introductions from CIB involved a significant 
risk of consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting 
introductions from CIB prior to entering into a contract with Mr T.
  
I also want to again emphasise here that I do not say that Rowanmoor was under any 
obligation to advise Mr T on the SIPP and/or the underlying investment. Refusing to accept 
an application because it was introduced by a firm that Rowanmoor ought reasonably to 
have known was not advising customers on the underlying investment, is not the same thing 
as advising Mr T on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP.
 
I appreciate Rowanmoor says it didnt have the permissions, authorisations or capability to 
give advice.  But those permissions or authorisations were not needed as Rowanmoor 
wasnt required to give advice.  But it did have distinct obligations to act with due skill, care 
and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly and to treat Mr T fairly  and in 
order to meet these obligations, Rowanmoor had a responsibility to carry out appropriate 
checks on CIB to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing. Rowanmoor should 
have refused business if it could not satisfy itself as to the quality of the business that CIB 
was introducing.
Rowanmoor says the application of COBS 2.1.1R in Adams v Options serves as guide to 
the application of Principles 2, 3 and 6. Whilst both the Principles and COBS provide 
similar considerations and objectives, they are each independent parts of the regulatory 
framework.  COBS 2.1.1R sets out the clients best interests rule, but Principle 2 (skill, 
care and diligence) and Principle 3 (management and control) set out different obligations.
One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
was not of direct relevance to the case before him was because the specific regulatory 
provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was asked to consider are not those 
which have formed the basis of the claimants case before me. So, I remain of the view 
that its not possible to say conduct that does not amount to a breach of COBS 
automatically means the Principles have been satisfied or that the conduct amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
Rowanmoor has emphasised the relevance of COBS 2.1.1R and says it should form the 
basis for my decision. Whilst Ive taken account of COBS 2.1.1R in this complaint  it 
needs to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Ts case. However, I think it is important to again emphasise what 
I have said above and throughout my investigation, that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between Mr Ts complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Options. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal 
pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
  
I disagree with Rowanmoors understanding of its obligations.  The Principles, COBS 
2.1.1R and the whole regulatory framework provide an ongoing set of responsibilities 
with which a business must comply.  I have therefore not relied on the Principles  and 
excluded COBS  in order to elide the clear and logical reasoning in Adams v Options 
as to the significant weight to be placed upon the contractual relationship between the 
parties.
Finding that there was a lack of due diligence into CIB and its business model
Rowanmoor says it did carry out due diligence on CIB and its business model and that I 
have erred in concluding they were inadequate. I accept that it did undertake some checks. 
However, the questions I need to consider in this complaint are, firstly, whether Rowanmoor 
ought to have, in compliance with its regulatory obligations, identified that customers 
introduced by CIB were not receiving regulated advice about TRG and that there was a 
significant risk of consumer detriment, and if so, secondly, whether Rowanmoor should 
therefore not have accepted Mr Ts application from CIB.
 
I understand that Rowanmoor considers that it did sufficient due diligence and satisfied its 
obligations under FSA guidance.  In particular Rowanmoor says that, at the outset of its 
relationship with CIB, it checked CIBs regulatory status and met with CIB to discuss its 
business model. It says that, as it was dealing with another regulated business, it had no 
obligation to do more or later due diligence.
As detailed in my provisional decision, Rowanmoor had concerns as early as July 2009  
two years prior to Mr Ts application - that CIB was introducing significant volumes of 
execution only business and so wasnt operating under the business model that Rowanmoor 
had believed to be in place.
  
Following Rowanmoors board meeting in July 2009, the meeting minutes record that the 
board had concerns that CIB appear to be transacting significant volumes of Execution Only 
business, not being a stance that [Rowanmoor] felt comfortable with in relation to the 
products on offer.  It was recorded that, in order to investigate the concerns, one of the 
directors of Rowanmoor would meet with representatives of CIB and report their findings to 
the next board meeting scheduled for 3 August 2009.
The minutes of the next Rowanmoor board meeting in August 2009 record that one of its 
directors had spoken with CIB over the phone.  The relevant part of the minutes record that:
[A Rowanmoor director] confirmed that he had had a telephone discussion with [CIB]
the outcome of which was that CIB confirmed that many cases had had an IFA and
that going forward, full advice would be given and details of the IFA provided. CIB
then asked if Rowanmoor would accept Execution Only business if a client had
declined advice. The Board noted that it would not accept Execution Only business
on cases where the purchase of an overseas property was involved that requiredpension transfers unless the individual could be proved to the satisfaction of the
Board to be a sophisticated investor. [A Rowanmoor director] was asked to advise
CIB of the decision.
[A Rowanmoor director] noted that CIB had also asked the position if they offered
advice to a client at additional cost but that the client had then declined to take
advice, would Rowanmoor take the business as Execution Only. The Board noted
that it would not be prepared to accept business as Execution Only on this basis as it
did not consider this was treating customers fairly. [A Rowanmoor director] to advise
CIB accordingly.
In response to my provisional decision, Rowanmoor says that it was reasonable for it to have 
relied on the assurances given by CIB.  But, given that CIB had already departed from what 
had previously been explained to Rowanmoor as its business model, I disagree. I have also 
taken into account the nature of CIBs assurances and, as explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont think that they were particularly reassuring.
Given the serious nature of Rowanmoors concerns and the high risk of consumer detriment, 
as detailed in my provisional decision, I think that CIBs assurance ought to have called into 
question the motivations of CIB and led Rowanmoor to document the requirement for full 
advice and require explicit assurance from Rowanmoor in writing.
Rowanmoor has confirmed that its provided all relevant documents to this Service, but it has 
not provided any record of the telephone call between Rowanmoors director and CIB  
other than reference to it in the abovementioned board meeting minutes.
Rowanmoor now seeks to rely on that telephone call to evidence that it did take steps to 
seek assurance that CIB was fully advising customers.  In my view, if Rowanmoor intended 
for that assurance to satisfy its regulatory obligations, in particular Principle 2, (to conduct its 
business with due skill, care and diligence), and Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively), Rowanmoor ought to have had 
processes in place to ensure that it was able to evidence the due diligence it had carried out 
on CIB.
Ive also given careful thought as to whether it was reasonable for Rowanmoor to rely on a 
verbal assurance from CIB more generally.  The board meeting minutes say that CIB had 
said that full advice would be given going forward, but in that same call, CIB asked about 
circumstances where Rowanmoor might accept execution-only business.  I consider this 
undermines the credibility of the assurance given by CIB, and ought to have flagged to 
Rowanmoor the likelihood that some of the customers introduced by CIB were not receiving 
regulated advice about TRG - and that there was therefore a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.
The 2009 FSA report makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have in place systems and 
controls which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to 
ensure CIB was providing advice on the underlying investment and to do so in a way which 
adequately safeguarded their clients interests. And I do not think simply asking CIB if it was 
advising customers was sufficient to meet this standard of good practice in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, for the reasons detailed in my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I set out some examples of wider enquiries that I believe 
Rowanmoor should have made in respect of CIBs business model.  These included 
checking with CIB how it came into contact with potential customers, what its arrangements 
with TRG were, whether anyone else was providing information to customers and what 
marketing information was being provided to customers. 
Rowanmoor has questioned the basis for my findings that it ought to have made these 
enquiries.  The rules and regulatory framework set out the overarching obligations for all 
financial businesses  and Ive already set out above what I consider to be the relevant 
considerations in this case.  But I must also consider what those obligations mean in practice 
in the specific context of the facts of this complaint.
 
Given the valid concerns that Rowanmoor had about whether full advice was being given to 
customers by CIB, I consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint to 
expect Rowanmoor to have carried out those wider enquiries in order to meet its regulatory 
obligations.
Finding that large volumes of high-risk investments introduced by CIB was 
anomalous
Ive considered the type and volume of introductions made to Rowanmoor by CIB.  In my 
provisional decision I went into some detail as to why I concluded that 455 introductions of 
this type of business in two years from a small IFA firm was anomalous and should have 
caused concern.  I wont repeat that in full again  but am still persuaded by it.
Rowanmoor has questioned how I could conclude that it was a high volume of introductions 
without further context of whether the 455 were part of a larger body of applications of which 
some were rejected by CIB.  It also explained that the nature of the UK advice market means 
that it is common for a narrow selection of advisers (in this case CIB) to be involved with a 
capacity-limited investment opportunity (such as TRG).
I understand the points put forward by Rowanmoor, and recognise that CIB may have 
rejected some applications, but that does not detract from the number of introductions CIB 
did make to Rowanmoor.  The TRG investment was high-risk and esoteric, so was only 
suitable for a small proportion of investors.
 
Rowanmoor did keep management information about the business it was accepting.  Given 
the volume of applications, and the geographic spread of customers, I think it ought 
reasonably to have had reservations about the ability of CIB to fully advise all clients  and 
the possibility of consumer detriment.
Finding that Rowanmoor failed to check Mr T had been fully advised and its failure to 
request a suitability report
As I made clear in my provisional decision, I do not expect Rowanmoor to have assessed 
the suitability of such a course of action for Mr T  and I accept it could not do that.  But, in 
order to meet the obligations, set by the Principles (and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to 
have recognised this was an unusual proposition, which carried a significant risk of 
consumer detriment. And, as set out in my provisional decision, I think that Rowanmoor did 
know that the kind of business that CIB was introducing was risky. So, it ought to have taken 
particular care in its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr T fairly and act in his best 
interests.
 
In my provisional decision I referred to suitability letters that had been provided to 
Rowanmoor showing that restricted advice had been given  and set out why that should 
have caused alarm.  Rowanmoor has since explained those suitability letters were not 
provided to evidence investment advice, but in the context of a discrete issue to do with fees.  
I cant be certain when those letters were provided to Rowanmoor in relation to the fee 
issues, but irrespective of whether Rowanmoor was reviewing them in relation to fees, or 
otherwise, it would have become clear that some consumers were not being fully advised.As I set out in my provisional decision, even if Rowanmoor wasnt in possession of those 
letters prior to accepting Mr Ts business, I think it would have been fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances involved in these introductions for Rowanmoor to have requested and 
reviewed some letters. I also remain of the view that, if Rowanmoor had also checked the 
position with at least some customers introduced by CIB  as I think it should have done in 
accordance with good industry practice  then this too would have revealed the significant 
failings in the advice process.
Reliance on good industry practice in respect of suitability letters
The FSAs 2009 Report states that requesting copies of suitability letters is an example of 
good industry practice. But Rowanmoor has said the 2009 Report was not prescriptive 
guidance and that it wasnt required to request suitability letters as it was only one example 
of the type of steps it could consider.  Rowanmoor has also expressed the view that no such 
good industry practice existed at that time, and explained it took a number of significant 
other steps to ensure the quality of business introduced and to guard against customer 
detriment.
Given that the 2009 Report was published setting out the findings of a thematic review to 
assess how SIPP operators were complying with FSAs principles and rules, I consider it 
highly relevant.  Although the guidance was not prescriptive, the 2009 Report did state that 
requesting copies of suitability letters is an example of good industry practice. 
Whilst I recognise that requesting suitability letters is only one example of the steps that 
Rowanmoor could have taken to comply with its obligations, I cannot reasonably agree that 
no such good industry practice existed at that time. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, Rowanmoor itself appears to have considered it good practice at one point  as it 
asked for copies of advice in the standard wording of its investment application form.
As Rowanmoor was concerned that consumers werent being fully advised by CIB, I think in 
the circumstances, it would have been good practice to request copies of some suitability 
letters from CIB.  The letters would have provided clear evidence as to whether CIB was fully 
advising customers in line with the agreed process for the introduction of business  giving a 
more certain reassurance than the high-level verbal assurance given by CIB.
Ive considered the steps which Rowanmoor did take to ensure customers were being fully 
advised, and to minimise the risk of detriment. Its says it met with CIB to discuss CIBs 
business and its responsibilities, including its sale process, distribution strategy and the need 
for CIB to provide advice to clients.  But given the concerns Rowanmoor had at an early 
stage, that consumers introduced by CIB werent receiving regulated advice on TRG, and 
Rowanmoors awareness of the involvement of unregulated parties in promoting the high-
risk TRG investment, I remain of the view that Rowanmoor ought to have identified a risk of 
consumer detriment here.
 
Mr T was taking advice on his pension from a business that Rowanmoor knew had 
introduced customers who hadnt received advice on the underlying investment. He was 
transferring from a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme, which may have offered 
important guaranteed benefits, into a SIPP, and then investing that money in an investment 
based overseas.  The chances of the investment being suitable for a significant portion of a 
retail investors pension was very small  and Mr T was investing the entirety of his pension 
provision. Rowanmoor knew from the initial SIPP application that funds were being 
transferred from a final salary scheme, and so it ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
risk of consumer detriment.So, given the relevant factors, Rowanmoor ought to have viewed the application from Mr T 
as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. And it should have been aware that the 
role of the adviser was likely to be a very important one in the circumstances  emphasising 
the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on CIB to independently ensure it had 
been giving advice on the whole transaction.
 
Taking all of this into account, I remain of the view that Rowanmoor didnt do enough to meet 
its regulatory obligations or comply with good industry practice.
TRG investment
The TRG investment is a tangible development which does exist.  Rowanmoor describes it 
as a bricks and mortar investment and says that it is not so especially high risk that advice 
to enter into it should have alerted Rowanmoor to the risk of consumer detriment.  It says the 
risk profile of the investment is a highly relevant consideration when assessing the level of 
due diligence Rowanmoor was required to do.
I acknowledge that the investment Mr T made in TRG is a genuine investment and the 
development does exist.  However, that does not mean it was not high risk, and I believe 
that Rowanmoors description of it as a bricks and mortar investment with a risk profile not 
especially higher than that of equity shareholdings and bonds, downplays the risks 
associated with it.
  
Whilst TRG is a property development and has been built, there are a number of factors 
which affect how the investment is categorised.  For example, it was overseas and didnt 
offer the protection of UK regulation or law, it was off-plan and subject to the possibility of 
currency fluctuations. Most of the investments in TRG were deposit based, with further funds 
required on completion of the property development. So, the risks are heightened not only 
because the properties might not be built, but also because many customers will need to find 
additional cash at some point when the properties are built.
I am satisfied that Rowanmoor was aware of the high risk associated with the kind of 
business that CIB was introducing and that heightened caution needed to be exercised when 
dealing with these kinds of applications, even if there was a regulated advice firm involved. 
This is evident from the minutes of the relevant Rowanmoor board meetings that I 
referenced in my provisional decision.
  
Im aware that Rowanmoor has asked me to consider the due diligence it carried out on TRG 
as part of my review of this complaint.  It may be that Rowanmoor carried out appropriate 
checks on the investment itself, and if it did, it would have known about the features of TRG 
that posed a risk. However, given what Ive said about Rowanmoors due diligence on CIB 
and my conclusion that it failed to comply with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice at the relevant time, I dont think it is necessary for me to also consider 
Rowanmoors due diligence on TRG. Im satisfied that Rowanmoor was not treating Mr T 
fairly or reasonably when it accepted his introduction from CIB.
Summary
Mr T was transferring his pension from a defined-benefit occupational scheme to a SIPP in 
order to make a high-risk esoteric investment.
Rowanmoor ought to have identified there was a possibility that CIB was not providing 
advice on the TRG investment to customers it was introducing  and so Mr T was at risk of 
consumer detriment.  In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Rowanmoor reasonably ought to have undertaken further due diligence in relation to the introductions that CIB was 
making.
If Rowanmoor had taken these steps, it would have established CIB was not providing full 
advice to its customers and there was a risk of consumer detriment.  So, it was not in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry practice for Rowanmoor to 
proceed to accept business from CIB.
 
Is it fair to ask Rownamoor to pay Mr T compensation in the circumstances?
I set out in some detail in my provisional decision why I consider it fair and reasonable to 
direct Rowanmoor to compensate Mr T for his full losses.
Rowanmoor considers it unfair that I am holding it wholly responsible for the losses. It says 
Mr T must be held liable for his own investment decisions and CIB was the regulated party at 
fault.  To ask Rowanmoor to bear the full loss to the exclusion of those parties is unfair.
As Ive made clear, Rowanmoor needed to carry out appropriate due diligence on CIB and 
reach the right conclusions. It failed to do this. Just asking Mr T to sign declarations was 
not an effective way of meeting its obligations, or escaping liability where it failed to meet its 
obligations. In particular, I think Rowanmoor could take no meaningful comfort from the 
declaration stating that Mr T had taken advice in relation to the TRG investment given what 
it knew or ought to have known about CIBs business model. Likewise, when Mr T signed to 
say that he was aware of the inherent risks, I do not consider it to have been fair or 
reasonable for Rowanmoor to conclude that he did so with a full understanding of what this 
meant - even if he had received a suitability letter from CIB  given what Rowanmoor knew, 
or ought to have known about CIBs business model. In fact, I have no reason to doubt Mr 
T when he says he wasnt told about any risks by anyone at all.
Rowanmoor says that its implausible that Mr T didnt understand the risks of his SIPP 
investment in TRG, having self-selected the investment well before Rowanmoors 
involvement. However, I do not agree  I accept that Mr T signed an indemnity, which 
sought to confirm that he was aware the investment was high risk but, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I consider that he did so without a full understanding of what high risk 
meant, as he had already been sold on the idea of the TRG investment, and was assured 
by what he had been told.
 
I accept that another regulated party was involved here - CIB. Rowanmoor says that its 
CIB who is really responsible for Mr Ts losses. But, our Service cant look at a complaint 
against CIB as it was dissolved and no longer exists as a regulated business. To be clear, 
Im not making a finding that Rowanmoor should have assessed the suitability of the 
investment or the SIPP for Mr T. I accept that Rowanmoor had no obligation to give advice 
to Mr T, or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. Im 
looking at Rowanmoors separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
Rowanmoor also says that Mr T would likely have proceeded with the transfer of his pension 
regardless of the actions it took, and CIB could have made an introduction elsewhere.
Rowanmoor also says if it had not accepted business at the outset, CIB would have started 
making introductions to a different provider long before Mr Ts application was made, and 
there is no evidence that other SIPP operators would have refused this business.
I dont find this a compelling argument. As Ive explained, CIBs business model was based 
on submitting large volumes of business through Rowanmoor. If Rowanmoor had refused 
to accept introductions from CIB, I think its likely that CIB would have entered a similar arrangement involving large volumes of business with another SIPP operator. Had it done 
so I think its fair to assume that another SIPP provider wouldnt have processed the 
transaction if it had carried out sufficient due diligence on CIB in accordance with its own 
regulatory responsibilities and good industry practice.
Furthermore, theres no evidence that Mr T was so keen on the TRG investment that he 
would have submitted the application to Rowanmoor via a regulated advice firm other than 
CIB. If he had approached another advice firm, its likely that he would have been told in no 
uncertain terms that he should leave his pension arrangement as it was, and I think he 
would have listened to that advice. Mr T has confirmed that, if Rowanmoor had not 
accepted the transfer and he was made aware of the risks, then he would have left his 
pension where it was.
In any event, those scenarios are hypothetical. I think its fairer to deal with what I 
consider to be the cold facts involved in this case  Mr Ts application from CIB shouldnt 
have been accepted by Rowanmoor. Accepting the application has caused a loss to Mr T 
which I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to ask Rowanmoor 
to compensate him for.
Im satisfied that Mr T would not have continued with the SIPP and investment in TRG, had 
it not been for Rowanmoors failings, and would have remained in his existing pension 
scheme. And, whilst I accept that CIB is responsible for initiating the course of action that 
has led to his loss, I consider that Rowanmoor failed to comply with its own regulatory 
obligations and did not put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity and 
obligation to do so.
Rowanmoor didnt have to carry out an assessment of Mr Ts needs and circumstances in 
order to meet its regulatory requirements, but it did have to treat Mr T fairly under the 
Principles.
I am satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, that it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Rowanmoor should compensate Mr T for the loss he has 
suffered.
In making these findings, I have taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Mr T  including CIB. In my view, in considering what fair 
compensation looks like in this case, it is reasonable to make an award against 
Rowanmoor that requires it to compensate Mr T for the full measure of his loss. CIB was 
reliant on Rowanmoor to facilitate access to Mr Ts pension. So, but for Rowanmoors 
failings, Mr Ts pension transfer would not have occurred in the first place.
As such, I am not asking Rowanmoor to account for loss that goes beyond the 
consequences of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the 
loss in question. That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a 
distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, that fact should not impact on 
Mr Ts right to fair compensation from Rowanmoor for the full amount of his loss.
Mr T has already received some compensation from the FSCS for failings by CIB.  But 
under the terms of the reassignment between Mr T and the FSCS, Mr T is contractually 
bound to repay the FSCS from any compensation he receives from Rowanmoor.  
Rowanmoor says that Mr T made a commercial decision to accept the terms of 
reassignment from the FSCS and any award of compensation shouldnt be predicated 
upon that.However, it was necessary for Mr T to accept the terms of the reassignment set by the 
FSCS in order for him to pursue the balance of his losses.  So, I dont think that was an 
unreasonable thing for him to do and, as he will be required to repay the compensation 
received from the FSCS from any compensation he receives from Rowanmoor, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable for me to not take the reassignment into account.  I 
have set out my thinking on this below.
  
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr T to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Rowanmoors failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr 
Ts SIPP application from CIB.
In light of the above, Rowanmoor should calculate fair compensation by comparing the 
current position to the position Mr T would be in if he had not transferred from his 
existing pension. In summary, Rowanmoor should:
Calculate the loss Mr T has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
Take ownership of the TRG investment if possible.
Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ts pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr T direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
Pay 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Rowanmoor should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in 
further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr T has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the loss 
calculation)
Rowanmoor should calculate redress for Mr Ts NILGOSC pension in line with The 
FCAs pension review guidance in October 2017 (updated March 2021) 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg17-9.pdf using the most recent 
financial assumptions published.
2. Take ownership of the TRG investment
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment 
needs to be removed from the SIPP. To do this, Rowanmoor should calculate an amount it 
is willing to accept as a commercial value for TRG and pay that sum into the SIPP and take 
ownership of the relevant investments. This amount should be taken into account for the 
loss calculation.
If Rowanmoor is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the value of it should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Provided Mr T is compensated in full. Rowanmoor may ask Mr T to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount Mr T may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from any costs in drawing up the undertaking.If Rowanmoor does not take ownership of the of the TRG investment, and it continues to be
held in Mr Ts SIPP there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP.
Mr T would not be responsible for those fees if Rowanmoor had not accepted the transfer 
of his personal pension in to the SIPP. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for Rowanmoor 
to waive any SIPP fees until such time as Mr T can dispose of the TRG investment and 
close the SIPP.
3. Pay compensation to Mr T for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr T has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into his SIPP. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for 
the income tax relief Mr T could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ts marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr T may not be able to pay the compensation into the SIPP. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr T direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr T should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ts marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr T is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
I appreciate that Mr T has been paid some compensation by the FSCS. But, as explained 
in my provisional decision, I dont think I can ignore the terms of the reassignment 
agreement he had to sign as part of his claim to the FSCS. To do so would mean that Mr T 
would not be compensated for Rowanmoors failings  which, as Ive said above, has 
caused his entire loss irrespective of the separate roles and obligations of other parties.
So, I will make no allowance for what has been paid by the FSCS and award Mr T 
compensation for the full loss he has suffered. Mr T is contractually bound by the terms of 
his reassignment from the FSCS to pay back any monies it awarded to him. Mr T has 
confirmed that he understands that he is contractually bound to repay those monies to the 
FSCS and that he will do so. I am satisfied that Mr T will act in accordance with his 
contractual obligations assumed in good faith  and so I am satisfied that no real risk of 
double recovery arises. 
I understand that CIB is dissolved, but if Rowanmoor believes other parties to be wholly or 
partly responsible for the loss, it is free to pursue those other parties. So, compensation 
payable to Mr T should be contingent on the assignment by him to Rowanmoor of any 
rights of action he may have against other parties in relation to his transfer to the SIPP and 
the investments.
  
4. Pay 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr T has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money Mr T cannot afford to lose and its loss has caused him to lose all confidence in pension providers. I consider that a payment of 500 is appropriate to 
compensate for that upset.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Rowanmoor 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint against 
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to 150,000, plus any interest and or costs that I think are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than 150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
The full extent of Mr Ts losses has not yet been calculated (as set out above), but it is 
possible his loss may exceed the 150,000 award limit.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Rowanmoor should pay Mr T the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 150,000. It should also pay any interest 
accrued if the compensation is not paid within 28 days of acceptance of a final decision by 
Mr T.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than 150,000, I recommend that Rowanmoor pays Mr T the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Rowanmoor doesnt have to 
do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr T can accept my decision and go to court for the 
balance. Mr T may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
Ross Hammond
OmbudsmanCOPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited (Rowanmoor) failed in its 
regulatory duties to carry out due diligence when accepting his application for a Self- 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says that Rowanmoor failed to verify the integrity 
of the firm that introduced his application (CIB Life and Pensions Limited (CIB)) and 
should now compensate him for the loss he has suffered as a result of the investment in 
The Resort Group (TRG) he made via the SIPP.
background
The parties
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited
Rowanmoor is a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange 
deals in investments, arrange safeguarding and administration of assets, deal in 
investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a pension scheme and to make 
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
CIB (Life & Pensions) Limited
At the time of the events in this complaint, CIB were authorised by the regulator - the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) - to advise on regulated products and services including giving investment advice 
and arranging deals in investments such as pensions.
In May 2015, CIB went into liquidation, and has since been dissolved.
Real SIPP LLP
RealSIPP were an appointed representative of CIB from April 2010 to June 2015. 
Rowanmoor was told by CIB in May 2010 that CIB had developed RealSIPP to 
be:
 a packager and administrator of SIPPs for all networked developments and
is set-up as an appointed representative of CIB (Life & 
Pensions) Ltd. However, RealSIPP will not be issuing suitability letters a
recommendations as this is done directly by CIB (Life & Pensions) Ltd.
The Resort Group
The Resort Group was founded in 2007. TRG owns a series of luxury resorts in Cape 
Verde. TRG sold luxury hotel rooms to UK consumers, either as whole entities or as 
fractional shares ownership in a company. TRG was not regulated by the financial services 
regulator.
This case involves an investment into TRGs Dunas Beach Resort.
What happened?
Mr T held benefits in a final salary occupational pension scheme which had a cash value of 
around 96,000. He says that in 2011 a friend told him that he had invested in TRG and 
suggested it would be a good investment for Mr T too. So, Mr T went to a presentation about 
TRG at a hotel at which he met two individuals who sold him on the idea of the investment.Mr T says he knew he was investing in hotel rooms, which he thought were in Dubai, and 
that he would receive a lump sum return when he wished to retire and a regular rental 
income every month. He was assured that the investment income would cover all fees and 
he would not need to pay anything else from his personal money. He was shown a 
brochure and told that TRG was a very up and coming investment, and that they had 
many clients.
The individuals he met at the hotel were, Mr T believed, connected to TRG  not CIB. Mr 
T says he had no dealings with CIB at all. One of the individuals helped him complete all 
the paperwork in subsequent meetings. He says he didnt have an opportunity to carefully 
read the documents he signed and cant remember receiving a suitability report.
On 6 July 2011, Mr T signed Rowanmoors SIPP application form. The advising IFA was 
noted as an individual at CIB (Life & Pensions)/RealSIPP LLP with a RealSIPP email 
address.
On 6 August 2011, Mr T signed Rowanmoors property information schedule setting out 
that he wanted to invest in a property at TRGs Dunas Beach resort by making a 65% 
deposit.
Mr Ts Rowanmoor account was opened on 22 August 2011.
On 5 September 2011, Rowanmoor wrote to Mr T about his intention to invest in TRG and 
recommended that he get appropriate legal/professional advice before acquiring the 
property. He was also asked to make the following declaration:
I have read your letter. I understand there are risks inherent in the proposed 
transaction and that Rowanmoor Pensions will not be liable on the basis stated 
above. However I do not wish to appoint legal advisers in this matter.
Mr T signed and returned this letter.
These three documents  the SIPP application form, the property information schedule and 
the September letter appear to be at Mr T signed at the time
of the application to Rowanmoor.
On 10 October 2011, approximately 96,000 was transferred from Mr Ts 
occupational pension scheme with Northern Ireland Local Government Officers 
Superannuation Committee (NILGOSC) into his Rowanmoor SIPP. Approximately 
90,000 was then invested in TRG.
The investment in TRG hasnt performed well at all. Mr T hasnt received the annual returns 
he expected from his investment and it looks like hes unable to sell it either as there is no 
market for it. This is, in part, because there are a number of fees that get deducted from 
any revenue generated by the investment, leaving no income  and there have been 
problems with the title for TRG properties.
In 2017, Mr T made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
about the actions of CIB which had by then gone into default. The FSCS accepted Mr 
Ts claim and calculated his loss at 90,073.28. The FSCS paid Mr T 50,000 in total, 
in line with its maximum award limit at the time.
Following this, Mr T complained to Rowanmoor via a claims management company 
(CMC). The CMC said that Rowanmoor should compensate Mr T for his losses because:Rowanmoor failed to meet its obligations to Mr T, a retail client, and permitted a 
transfer to an unsuitable pension which then facilitated the purchase of an 
unsuitable, high risk, illiquid investment.
Mr T had a low risk profile with little or no investment experience.
Rowanmoor should have had concerns about the applications it received from 
CIB because it involved high volumes of business being introduced by the same 
firm for the same investment.
Rowanmoor rejected Mr Ts complaint. It said it provided an execution only service 
and wasnt responsible for giving advice to Mr T about the SIPP or investment in 
TRG.
Rowanmoor said it had fulfilled its regulatory duties by warning Mr T to seek financial 
advice from a regulated advisor before proceeding and that the investment had risks. 
Rowanmoor also said that it had carried out due diligence on TRG.
Mr T then referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigation
Our investigator looked into the complaint and gathered some further information. 
The pertinent matters can be summarised as follows:
Rowanmoor first accepted business from CIB in June 2009 and continued to do 
so until October 2013.
Rowanmoor checked the regulators database to make sure CIB and the 
individual adviser at CIB named on application forms were appropriately 
regulated to give pensions advice.
There was no introducer agreement in place between Rowanmoor and CIB.
Rowanmoor didnt request any suitability reports from CIB  it says it wasnt 
company practice to do so.
In total, Rowanmoor accepted 1,387 introductions from CIB. This accounted for 
26.90% of all business received by Rowanmoor during 2009-2013.
Mr Ts introduction to Rowanmoor was number 456 out of 1,387 from CIB.
341 schemes introduced by CIB involved one or more occupational transfers. Of 
the 1,387 clients introduced, this is 24.59%.
After completing her investigation, our investigator thought Mr Ts complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, the investigators findings were as follows:
Rowanmoor isnt responsible for giving advice to Mr T. However, it did have a 
responsibility to carry out sufficient due diligence on CIB before accepting 
business from it and the investment in TRG prior to accepting it into the SIPP. 
The investigator set out that this responsibility stemmed from the regulators 
Principles for Businesses and the regulators publications relating to SIPPs.Rowanmoor did carry out some limited due diligence on CIB and kept records of 
the type and volume of introductions it was receiving. But this information should 
have alerted Rowanmoor to the fact that CIB was referring a large number of 
retail clients to open a SIPP in order to invest into one esoteric investment  TRG.
So, by the time of Mr Ts application, Rowanmoor should have carried out further 
checks on CIB, including of its business model and asked to see suitability 
reports.
Had it done so, it would have discovered CIB was not providing clients with 
advice (as she had felt had happened in the case of Mr T). It should also have 
concluded that most, if not all, business introduced by CIB would produce 
obviously unsuitable SIPPs and that there was a high risk of consumer detriment.
The investigator concluded that all this meant that Rowanmoor should have 
stopped accepting business from CIB, long before Mr Ts referral and so should 
compensate Mr T for his losses.
The investigator didnt consider whether the due diligence that Rowanmoor 
conducted on TRG was sufficient as she felt that Rowanmoor should have 
rejected Mr Ts application via CIB in the first place.
Rowanmoors response
Rowanmoor didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In summary, it said:
Rowanmoor provided an execution-only service as a SIPP operator. The scope of 
its duties, including the duty to conduct due diligence prior to Mr Ts investment, 
were not as wide as those the investigator premised her conclusions on.
The investigator had, contrary to the High Court decision in Adams v Options 
SIPP (formerly Carey pensions) [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch), disregarded the nature 
and terms of the contractual relationship between Mr T and Rowanmoor which 
defined the duties to which Rowanmoor was subject, including the 
recommendations and warnings that Rowanmoor had given to him. The 
investigator had imposed on Rowanmoor inappropriately wide obligations, 
including an obligation to assess the quality of the business that it administers 
and to detriment to Mr T arising from the investment choices made by him.
Of the Adams v Options judgement, Rowanmoor said:
oThe Conduct of Business Sourcebook Rules (COBS) comprised some 
rules which apply to execution-only SIPP providers and some which do 
not apply to execution-only SIPP providers. In the judges view, the 
division of obligations imposed by COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of the claimant 
reflects the position that the provider of the SIPP is operating on an 
execution-only basis where the client chooses the underlying 
investment themselves without advice from the SIPP provider.
oThe judge agreed that in ascertaining the scope of the obligations 
imposed by COBS 2.1.1R on the SIPP operator, the starting point is the 
contract between the parties.oThe judge found the 2009 thematic review report and the regulators 
subsequent publications to be of limited relevance when interpreting 
COBS 2.1.1R.
oThe Adams case was pursued by reference to COBS 2.1.1R  whereas 
the investigators view in Mr Ts complaint against Rowanmoor relied 
upon different, but analogous, regulatory provisions  the essential 
principle that emerges from the judgement is that the terms of the 
contract between a SIPP operator and the client are highly relevant in 
determining the SIPP operators duties.
Mr T signed the standard Rowanmoor SIPP application form. The application 
form made clear that Rowanmoor recommended that Mr T should seek financial 
advice from a suitably qualified professional, and that he should seek 
independent financial advice before making any transfers or assignments from 
other pension schemes. CIB was stated to be Mr Ts financial adviser.
Mr T accepted the Terms and Conditions of the SIPP and expressly 
acknowledged and agreed that he was solely responsible for all decisions relating 
to the purchase, retention and sale of the investments forming his personal 
arrangement under the SIPP and that he would not hold Rowanmoor liable for 
any claim in respect of the decisions made by him or his appointed adviser.
Mr T signed the standard Rowanmoor SIPP Property Information Schedule and 
in doing so acknowledged that he had taken advice from a regulated financial 
adviser with regard to the transfer of his pension and had considered the impact 
on any protection he might have.
Rowanmoor wrote to Mr T in September 2011. Rowanmoors letter clearly 
explained the limited, execution-only scope of its role in his SIPP investment, 
namely that it was able to inform him of the eligibility of the TRG investment under 
prevailing pensions legislation but it could not endorse or recommend the 
services of any particular property development company, and it could not advise 
on the suitability of, and risks attached to, the proposed investment. Nor could it 
advise on the complexities of the legal process of acquiring property in Cape 
Verde or in relation to the contractual documentation or the sellers title for the 
acquisition. Rowanmoor strongly recommended that, before acquiring the 
property, Mr T take appropriate legal and other professional advice, but 
requested, if he declined to do so, that he confirm as much in writing to 
Rowanmoor. Mr T signed Rowanmoors letter to acknowledge that he understood 
that there were risks inherent in the proposed transaction and that Rowanmoor 
would not be liable on the basis s T also confirmed that he did not wish to appoint 
legal advisers.
The SIPP Trust Deed contains express exclusions of liability and indemnities 
which are engaged to prevent the imposition upon Rowanmoor of the liability 
which Mr T seeks now to ascribe to it.
So, taking account of the Adams v Options decision and the above contractual 
documents, the investigator failed to respect the true nature of the relationship 
between Rowanmoor and Mr T. The contractual documents delineated 
Rowanmoors role as a limited one as an execution only SIPP operator.
It was wrong for the investigator to have concluded that the nature and volume of 
the business Rowanmoor received from CIB was a relevant consideration given the limited scope of its contractual and regulatory duties and/or should have given 
it cause for concern, such that it should and would have led Rowanmoor to 
decline to accept business from CIB prior to Mr Ts application.
In any event (and insofar as is relevant), the investigator had failed to take proper 
account of the systems and controls that Rowanmoor had in place at the material 
times in relation to introducer due diligence, and which were adequate and 
compliant with the prevailing (and posterior) regulatory regime and Rowanmoors 
limited obligations with regard to introducer and investment due diligence.
Rowanmoor maintained extensive management information for the purpose of, 
amongst other things, identifying potential trends across volumes of business. If 
there were particular issues arising from the management information, then this 
was raised at Rowanmoor group board level, to whom the information was 
available. Rowanmoor also had comprehensive procedures for considering 
potential investments and, in the vast majority of cases, worked with regulated 
financial advisers, like CIB.
Even if the contractual relationship between Rowanmoor and Mr T is disregarded, 
as a matter of regulation, and in accordance with prevailing SIPP operator 
industry practice, Rowanmoor had limited and specific due diligence obligations 
with regard to the business it accepted from CIB.
Rowanmoor complied with its limited regulatory obligations in respect of CIB by 
checking on the regulators register that CIB was regulated.
Rowanmoor did not, and never has, required copies of suitability letters from 
financial advisers as it cannot second guess the suitability of regulated advice 
given. Nothing published by the FSA at the time of Mr Ts application  in 
particular the 2009 Report  imposed, expressly or impliedly, an obligation on a 
SIPP operator to advise on the suitability, or to double-check the suitability, of 
advice given by regulated financial advisers. Rowanmoor had a legitimate 
expectation that financial advisers such as CIB were doing their job properly, and 
it could not be part of Rowanmoors role to verify the appropriateness of their 
advice. So, the investigator was wrong to conclude that Rowanmoor had treated 
Mr T unfairly but not requesting copies of CIB suitability letters.
The investigator was also wrong to say that Rowanmoor had not met with CIB or 
asked questions of its business model. A member of Rowanmoors compliance 
team had met with CIB in 2009 and CIB assured Rowanmoor that full advice 
would be given to clients. So, at the time of Mr Ts investment in TRG, CIB had 
confirmed to Rowanmoor, and Rowanmoor thus understood, that it was providing 
advice on suitability to clients in respect of the TRG investment. It was entitled to 
rely on that understanding and there was nothing to suggest that CIB was not 
fulfilling this assurance.
There was no basis for the investigator to have concluded that Mr T had not 
received a suitability letter from CIB.
Rowanmoor had also carried out sufficient due diligence on the TRG investment. 
Rowanmoor controlled the quality of its SIPP business through its assessment of 
potential investments. Rowanmoor employed specialist teams to perform this 
role. The teams assessed each proposed investment in terms of its structure; 
obtaining good legal title; the regulatory and jurisdictional identity of those running / involved in the investment; money laundering concerns; technical and tax issues 
such as whether there could be a contingent liability and the members 
connection with the proposed investment; and administration, such as the fees to 
be incurred by the member. The results of the specialist teams due diligence 
were then put, initially, to an Investment Approval Committee (IAC) for a decision 
about whether or not to accept such investments and, if so, in what 
circumstances.
An ombudsman had looked at a similar case involving TRG (but not CIB) and 
issued a provisional decision which set out that TRGs Dunas Beach Resort had 
been built and was operating successfully and was neither a scam nor fraudulent. 
The ombudsman had said that Rowanmoor failed to take Cape Verdean legal 
advice on whether the investment could be held in a co-trustee arrangement. But, 
this was a peripheral point and should not detract from his broader conclusion 
that Rowanmoors due diligence on the TRG investment was in all respects 
compliant with its limited regulatory obligations.
Even if Rowanmoors regulatory obligations extended to identifying the risk of 
consumer detriment, by means of an assessment of the nature and volume of the 
business being referred to it, Rowanmoors position is that there was nothing in 
the management information that it collected on CIB and TRG to cause concern 
to Rowanmoor. In circumstances where CIB was a regulated financial adviser 
which had confirmed to Rowanmoor that it was providing advice on suitability to 
clients in respect of the TRG investment, and as TRG was a demonstrably 
legitimate investment (albeit one that might be regarded as nonstandard), there 
was nothing about the nature nor volume of that SIPP business that should have 
alerted Rowanmoor to the potential for consumer detriment, having regard to 
Rowanmoors limited obligations as a SIPP operator.
The true cause of Mr Ts loss was likely to be the advice given to him by CIB and 
the poor performance of the TRG investment. The FSCS had already found fault 
with CIBs advice hence it had paid Mr T some compensation. And Mr T would 
likely have proceeded with the transfer of his pension regardless of the actions 
Rowanmoor took. Had Rowanmoor refused the transfer or stopped accepting 
business from CIB long before Mr Ts application, by the time of Mr Ts 
application, CIB would have arranged to make its introductions to a different SIPP 
provider. There is no evidence that other SIPP operators would have refused this 
business.
The investigator had made no allowance to the compensation to be paid to Mr T 
for the amount he had already received from the FSCS. The investigator said this 
was because Mr T had agreed with the FSCS that if his complaint against 
Rowanmoor is successful he will repay to the FSCS the money hed already 
received.
This wasnt justified as Rowanmoor shouldnt be liable by reason of the 
agreement that Mr T had with the FSCS. And this would effectively absolve CIB 
for everything that had happened.
Rowanmoor also provided a chronology and copies of key correspondence 
relating to CIB  mainly consisting of notes of internal board meetings. Ill refer to 
these in my findings below.
Further information provided by RowanmoorThe case was then passed to me for consideration. After reviewing the evidence and 
submissions, I asked for further information from both parties. The responses and further 
information have been summarised below.
Rowanmoor said that:
As well as TRG, CIB also introduced applications to Rowanmoor for customers 
wishing to invest in another overseas hotel development  Harlequin  and a 
limited number of applications involved other investments. But the vast majority of 
the applications were for investments in TRG.
In May 2009, Rowanmoor did have some concerns that CIB had not given advice 
to clients about Harlequin and was introducing execution only customers to 
Rowanmoor for Family Pension Trusts (a Family Pension Trust is a pension 
wrapper that is similar to a SIPP but which allows more than one person to be a 
member of that scheme). Having identified concerns about CIBs practices, 
Rowanmoor investigated this and raised the matter with CIB in a meeting. There 
are no records of this meeting, but the discussions that took place (most likely at 
the end of July 2009) resulted in Rowanmoor being satisfied that CIB would 
provide full advice to clients thereafter.
In 2013, Rowanmoor contacted CIB for its written confirmation that CIB was 
providing advice to clients on both the SIPP structure and underlying investments  
as per the advice requirements set in the FSAs alert in 2013 - Advising on 
pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. CIB assured Rowanmoor that its process is (and was) 
already beyond the FSA announcement.
Rowanmoors understanding is that CIB and TRG had a commercial relationship 
by which a substantial proportion of individuals wishing to invest in TRG would be 
referred to CIB for the purpose of the provision of financial advice.
Rowanmoor confirmed that it understood that RealSIPPs role in respect of CIB 
and TRG was a  packager and administrator of SIPPs for all networked 
developments and products
All Rowanmoor SIPP applications had a declaration that clients would send 
Rowanmoor a copy of their suitability letters. However, in practice, not all copies of 
suitability letters were sent by clients and none were requested by Rowanmoor. 
Rowanmoor said that CIB did send some copies of suitability letters, and it has 
provided me with an example of one such letter from 2011.
Around 60% of the CIB SIPP applications to Rowanmoor for investment in TRG 
involved a purchase by means of a deposit. Rowanmoor proceeded on the basis 
that it was assured by TRG that loans would be made available to clients to fund 
the balance of the purchase. Rowanmoor believes this was discussed with CIB but 
doesnt have records of these discussions.
Mr Ts application for the TRG investment was on the basis of a full ownership 
structure with a 65% deposit. But in 2014, this was changed to a 50% promissory 
structure for a different apartment at the Dunas Beach resort. His investment was 
valued at 111,050 in 2018.Rowanmoor did review some marketing material used by TRG and CIB  but cant 
confirm the totality of what was reviewed. It doesnt think it reviewed a particular 
document sent to us by Mr Ts CMC relating to the SIPP investment process 
produced by RealSIPP in 2011.
Rowanmoor ceased to accept introductions from CIB in 2013. Rowanmoor isnt 
able to identify precisely why instructions from CIB ceased at that point, although, 
in or around March 2013, the FSA asked CIB to review certain pension transfers 
and CIB asked Rowanmoor to cease transfers then in progress. The FSA 
thereafter restricted some of CIBs activity pending its investigation.
Mr T said that:
He was not aware of CIB and the role it played in his pension transfer. He said 
throughout the process he had no dealings with the firm. Mr T did not recognise the 
name RealSIPP either.
Mr T was not aware of any risks that were associated with the TRG investment and 
this was never discussed by anyone. The brochures he was shown were all very 
positive and gave no indication of any possible risk. Mr T has said that if he had 
any idea that he might not be able to access his pension at retirement he would 
never have gone ahead.
Mr T thought he was paying for a percentage of a property and other investors 
would have a percentage of the property, but he was unaware of the amount or the 
percentage. His Rowanmoor SIPP account ran out of funds some time ago a d he 
has had to pay money into the SIPP. If he had known that he would have to pay 
into the pension at any stage, he would never have gone ahead with the transfer 
and investment as he was not in a position to be able to afford more pension 
payments.
Mr T doesnt recall reading the application documents he signed for the SIPP and 
investment. The paperwork was brought to him by the adviser who usually marked 
where he needed to sign.
Mr T says that if Rowanmoor had refused to accept his application for the SIPP 
and investment in TRG, he would have just kept his pension where it was and not 
transferred it.
Mr T wasnt offered any incentive or payment to transfer his pension or invest in 
TRG, and he had been planning to retire at the age of 60 and says he wouldnt 
have wanted to risk his pension provisions.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair an
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'd like to assure both parties that I've looked at all of their submissions with care. In this 
decision I concentrate on the key arguments and evidence that are material to my 
determination of the complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
What are the relevant considerations?
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems.
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients
and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific 
rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but 
specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice and the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
Ive considered whether Adams v Options means that the Principles should not be taken in
account in deciding this case. And, I find that it doesnt. In Adams v Options, the judge did
not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings 
submitted by Mr Adams.  So, Adams v Options says nothing about the application of the
FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account 
when deciding this complaint.
I know that Rowanmoor says that the application of COBS in Adams v Options serves as 
guide to the application of Principle 6. But its not possible to say that conduct that does not 
amount to a breach of COBS automatically means that the Principles have been satisfied 
or that the conduct amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard 
to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 
6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the 
individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them 
to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be 
addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the 
position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, 
while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP 
operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor 
advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not 
safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc).
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved 
persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear 
disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings 
for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify 
the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that 
they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may 
be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example 
from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as 
a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic 
and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships 
and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such 
as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of 
the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing 
the processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks 
to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, andundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies 
House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept 
investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point 
of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate, to take them into 
account.Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I dont think the fact that the publications, 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of 
this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not 
good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, 
as did the obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
It is also important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non- exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
Another relevant consideration in this complaint is the regulators alert about advisers 
giving advice to consumers on SIPPs without consideration of the underlying investment to 
be held in the SIPP. The regulator issued an alert in 2013 (Advising on pension transfers 
with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP) setting 
out that this type of restricted advice did not meet regulatory requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing 
the advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the 
new pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers 
retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or 
primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may 
be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as 
part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the 
suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is 
given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall 
proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in 
unregulated schemes.
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
set out the regulators concerns about industry practices at the time. Ill explain the impact 
of this on Mr Ts complaint in my findings.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options did not consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.Overall, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Rowanmoor complied 
with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr T), to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Rowanmoor 
could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Rowanmoors contractual obligations
Rowanmoor says that, consistent with the decision in Adams v Options, the nature of its 
obligations must be looked at through the prism of the contractual documents between Mr 
T and Rowanmoor. I dont think the considerations in the Adams v Options case are 
analogous to the circumstances in this complaint, in which Im considering the Principles.
But, notwithstanding that, I have taken into account the contractual documents that 
Rowanmoor refers to and I agree they are relevant in clarifying some aspects of the 
relationship between Rowanmoor and Mr T. I accept that Rowanmoor made it clear to Mr T 
that it was not giving, nor able to give, advice to him and that it played an execution-only 
role in his SIPP investments.
The indemnity Mr T signed sought to confirm that he was aware the investment was high 
risk, had been given advice, and would not hold Rowanmoor responsible for any liability 
resulting from the investment.
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Rowanmoor ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Ts 
application even though he had signed an indemnity. I think there was an imbalance of 
knowledge and Rowanmoor should have taken very little comfort from the indemnity. It had 
already shown concern that CIB was not giving full regulated advice to consumers.
But unlike the situation in the case of Adams v Options where the SIPP provider relied 
upon the indemnity that was signed by the consumer, the circumstances here are different.
Rowanmoor has confirmed its process was to only accept applications on the basis that 
regulated advice had been provided on the underlying investment. This was specifically 
agreed as a requirement by Rowanmoors board and is recorded as such in its board 
minutes and internal email communications from 2009.
In its submissions to this Service, Rowanmoor confirmed:
Of particular note, a member of Rowanmoors risk and compliance team met with a 
representative of CIB in June 2009 to discuss CIBs business and its responsibilities 
(including the need for CIB to provide advice to clients) Rowanmoor accepted 
introductions of investments in TRG on the express understanding that CIB was 
providing advice to the clients concerned.
So, although it says that acceptance of Mr Ts SIPP was on an execution-only basis, its 
own policy was that acceptance of business was conditional upon him having received 
advice.In this case the contractual documents assume that Mr T (and most likely all investors in 
TRG that had been introduced by CIB) had received financial advice. Rowanmoors failure 
to check that financial advice had in fact been received by Mr T is a due diligence issue 
and breach of its own policy.
In the Adams v Carey case, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight said (at para. 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive
But in this case Mr T has confirmed that he was not given any incentive or welcome 
bonus. He had already been sold on the idea of the TRG investment and so I think he 
signed the indemnity without a full understanding of what high risk meant, assured by what 
he was told. This is why Rowanmoor should have been wary of dealing with CIB  as it had 
already introduced business without providing full advice  contrary to what Rowanmoor 
had stipulated.
My view is supported by the fact that many other consumers were not fully advised by 
CIB and accepted risks they say they did not understand. Rowanmoor did not check with 
Mr T whether he had in fact been fully advised.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly.
The contractual documents dont absolve, nor do they attempt to absolve, Rowanmoor of its 
regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when deciding whether to accept or reject
business.
Rowanmoor had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory obligations Ive set 
out in this decision. In my view, asking Mr T to sign an indemnity absolving Rowanmoor of 
all responsibility, and relying on such an indemnity, when it ought to have known Mr Ts 
dealings with CIB were putting him at significant risk was not the fair and reasonable thing 
to do.
What did Rowanmoors obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Rowanmoor was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer/investment is appropriate to deal with/accept. That involves conducting checks  
due diligence  on introducers and investments to make informed decisions about accepting 
business. This obligation was a continuing one.
Rowanmoor also says that checking the FSAs register to ensure that CIB was regulated  
as it did in respect of the SIPP applications of Mr T and other investors referred to it by CIB 
 was sufficient for it to comply with its limited regulatory obligations to conduct introducer 
due diligence. I dont agree. People and organisations should feel reassured that, when 
dealing with regulated advice firms, those firms are operating in line with the regulatory 
rules. But it doesnt follow that that faith can be blind and nothing further needs to be 
checked  especially if there are warning signs that things are not as they should be with 
the advice firm. As set out above, to comply with the Principles, Rowanmoor needed to 
conduct its business with due, skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; and pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Mr T) and treat them fairly. Its obligations and duties in this respect were not prescriptive and 
depended on the nature of the circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.
Despite its submissions, Im satisfied that Rowanmoor itself understood this at the time too 
as it did more than just check that CIB was regulated to give advice. As Ill set out below, 
Rowanmoor spoke with CIB to discuss its business model, kept management information 
about the type and volume of introductions it was making and obtained reassurances 
about the nature of the advice CIB was giving to clients.
Most revealingly in this regard, Rowanmoor recently provided us with an internal 
memorandum from January 2010. The memorandum was sent from the Group 
Compliance and Risk Manager to a Director who was Secretary to the Board and says:
Further to our recent conversation, and previous discussions regarding the FSA 
SIPP Operators Thematic Review, published in September 2009, I have revisited 
the paper in the interests of reassuring the Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Board 
that we meet the requirements of the regulator, and would observe the following 
from the Project Findings and Firms Requirements (Section 2):
We are particularly disappointed that some SIPP operators are behind where we 
would expect all regulated firms to be in the embedding of Treating Customers 
Fairly (TCF), demonstrated by way of management information.
At Rowanmoor Pensions we [sic] aware from our discussions with the regulator that 
they are satisfied with our approach to TCF, and its evidencing through the use of 
our Management Information pack. One particular area that has had a tangible 
impact is the monitoring of the human resource in administration, MI being 
instrumental in ensuring we monitor and apply consistent service levels in the 
interests of fair treatment.
We are concerned by a relatively widespread misunderstanding among SIPP 
operators that they bear little or no responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business 
that they administer, because advice is the responsibility of other parties, for 
example Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs).
The TCF MI report allows senior management to monitor the spread of SIPP 
business on a monthly basis. Our diligence, and commitment to ensuring the quality 
of business, has resulted in the Compliance Manager interviewing our most active 
introducer to discuss the nature, quality and volume of business. CIB Life and 
Pensions Limited of Rochester, Kent, were visited, and were pleased to discuss 
their patronage of Rowanmoor Personal Pensions, understanding as they did our 
obligations under Responsibilities of Providers and Distributor for the Fair 
Treatment of Customers PS07/11 (attached). (my emphasis)
So, long before the time of Mr Ts application in July 2011, Rowanmoor understood and 
accepted its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate checks on 
CIB to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing.
I think its also clear Rowanmoor understood and accepted its obligations meant that it had 
a responsibility to carry out appropriate due diligence on the TRG investment before 
accepting it into Mr Ts SIPP. The minutes of board meetings it has provided and the 
checks it says it conducted of TRG reflect this. So, I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory 
obligations, when conducting its business, Rowanmoor was also required to consider 
whether to accept or reject a particular investment (TRG), with the Principles in mind.What due diligence did Rowanmoor carry out on CIB?
Rowanmoor appear to have carried out the following checks before it accepted business
from CIB:
It checked the FSA register to ensure that CIB was regulated to give financial 
advice at the time of each introduction.
A member of its compliance team spoke with CIB in July 2009 over the telephone 
to make enquiries about whether the clients it was introducing were being 
advised. There is a reference to an interview in the memorandum Ive quoted 
from above, but I think this is actually the same telephone conversation rather 
than a separate event (Ive been provided with no evidence to suggest otherwise).
It maintained management information about the number of introductions being 
made by CIB and discussions were had at various times during board meetings 
about management of risks associated with the overseas property development 
investments that were being introduced.
Rowanmoor says these limited checks were appropriate given that CIB was a regulated 
advice firm. But, given the circumstances involved here, I dont think the above alone was 
reasonable or sufficient to meet Rowanmoors regulatory obligations. Crucially, 
Rowanmoor didnt take appropriate steps or draw reasonable conclusions after having 
reviewed the information available to it.
In summary, my view is that:
Rowanmoor agreed it was a necessary requirement for consumers to be 
fully advised before it accepted business;
Rowanmoor had some reasons to be concerned about CIB  it had been 
introducing execution only business and the advice it had given on some cases 
had been flagged as needing review;
The business it was introducing had anomalous features  large volumes of high-
risk business for overseas property developments;
Unregulated parties were involved in promoting/marketing TRG;
Despite knowing this, Rowanmoor didnt make appropriate checks of CIBs 
business model and unreasonably relied on a verbal assurance that advice was 
being given about the suitability of investing in TRG;
Had Rowanmoor made reasonable checks, it would have realised that the 
introductions from CIB involved a significant risk of consumer detriment as 
customers were not being advised about TRG.
So, Rowanmoor should have ceased to accept introductions from CIB 
before it accepted Mr Ts introduction.
Ill explain this in more detail below  firstly by setting out the circumstances involved in 
the introductions from CIB.Rowanmoor had some early reasons for concern about CIB
As early as April 2009, Rowanmoor identified the need for comprehensive details about 
CIBs business model, despite CIBs regulated status, given the large volume of business it 
was introducing. Rowanmoor wrote to CIB at that time, stating that:
As this is the first time that we have had an Introducer outside [another advice firm] 
with such a large percentage of business, we are likely to be questioned on the point 
by the FSA. This is standard practice.
In order that [we] are able to define clearly to the Regulator our position with CIB, 
it would be useful for one of us to meet [CIB] to explore the nature of the 
relationship and the business being transacted.
A meeting then took place in June 2009. The notes of this meeting say that:
[A director of CIB] was happy to describe the nature of operations, most business 
being generated via agents for overseas property developments. The ability of 
SIPPs to invest in off plan international property has led to CIB exploiting a niche in 
the market, and using a transfer service to create sufficient funds for such 
investment, and with diversification into other areas should there be sufficient 
funds, or a mismatch in risk profile. [A director of CIB] sees there being a 
sustainability in the model in the longer term, and Rowanmoor as the provider of 
choice due to our flexibility of bespoke service.
But by July 2009, Rowanmoor appears to have had some significant concerns about CIB. 
The Rowanmoor board meeting notes from July 2009 record that:
It was agreed that in order to investigate the concerns that CIB appear to be 
transacting significant volumes of Execution Only business, not being a stance that 
the [Rowanmoor] felt comfortable with in relation to the products on offer, [a 
Rowanmoor director] would meet with representatives of CIB at earliest course and 
report to the next [Rowanmoor] meeting scheduled for 3 August 2009 his findings. 
With this additional information the Board felt it would be able to make a reasoned 
decision as to the approach to be taken going forward.
So, from the outset of its relationship with Rowanmoor, CIB had been introducing a large 
percentage of Rowanmoors business and was transacting significant volumes of execution 
only business in relation to an investment that was not usually subject to this process.
Rowanmoor has told us that the investment in question was Harlequin.
I think this ought to have been a red flag for Rowanmoor in its dealings with CIB  and 
seems to have been treated as such by Rowanmoor at the time. It is highly unusual for 
regulated advice firms to be involved in execution only (i.e. non advised) transactions 
involving high risk unregulated overseas property developments and pensions. Thats 
because the risks involved in such transactions are unlikely to be fully understood by most 
people, without obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say that most advice firms 
decline to be involved in such transactions and certainly dont transact this kind of 
business in significant volumes.
So, Rowanmoor was right to treat this as a serious matter and look to meet with CIB. 
Rowanmoor has no direct record of that meeting  which is surprising given that the 
meeting appears to have been critical in Rowanmoors assessment of CIB. But I can see that the next Rowanmoor board meeting in August 2009 records that one of its directors 
had spoken over the phone with CIB. The relevant part of the minutes says that:
[A Rowanmoor director] confirmed that he had had a telephone discussion with 
[CIB] the outcome of which was that CIB confirmed that many cases had had an 
IFA and that going forward, full advice would be given and details of the IFA 
provided. CIB then asked if Rowanmoor would accept Execution Only business if a 
client had declined advice. The Board noted that it would not accept Execution Only 
business on cases where the purchase of an overseas property was involved that 
required pension transfers unless the individual could be proved to the satisfaction 
of the Board to be a sophisticated investor. [A Rowanmoor director] was asked to 
advise CIB of the decision.
[A Rowanmoor director] noted that CIB had also asked the position if they offered
advice to a client at additional cost but that the client had then declined to take 
advice, would Rowanmoor take the business as Execution Only. The Board noted 
that it would not be prepared to accept business as Execution Only on this basis as it 
did not consider this was treating customers fairly. [A Rowanmoor director] to advise 
CIB accordingly.
I have taken the reference to IFA above to mean an adviser at CIB.
Rowanmoor says this is evidence that having identified concerns about CIBs practices, 
Rowanmoor investigated and reasonably satisfied itself that CIB would provide advice to 
clients and was entitled to rely on the assurances provided to it by CIB.
I agree that, in principle, Rowanmoor was entitled to place some reliance on what it was 
being told by CIB and a discussion with CIB was a reasonable starting point. But I dont 
think what CIB told Rowanmoor was particularly reassuring. The limited evidence 
presented in this note seems to me to suggest that CIB agreed to give full advice to 
clients not because it was the right thing to do for the clients, but instead because it was 
what Rowanmoor would accept. I think this is reflected in the fact that CIB said that going 
forward full advice would be given and CIBs questions to Rowanmoor about this all 
appear to be focussed on the circumstances in which Rowanmoor might continue to accept 
execution only business. I think that ought to have called into question the motivations of 
CIB and led Rowanmoor to demonstrate good practice by documenting the requirement for 
full advice and requiring explicit assurance from Rowanmoor in writing.
The same minutes from August 2009 also demonstrate that Rowanmoor had other 
concerns about CIB. It seems that Rowanmoor and Marcus James, a firm that was 
involved in promoting Harlequin, was concerned about the appropriateness of the advice 
being given by CIB in respect of that investment. The minutes say:
[A Rowanmoor director] noted that he had met with Marcus James the firm that 
had put much business through CIB and explained the concerns. The chairman of 
Marcus James  also had concerns around funding and the company had already 
made a decision to only allow those who had 66% of the funding available to 
proceed (with possible exceptions if appropriate contributions were to be made).
As a result of the discussion with [A Rowanmoor director] it was agreed that Pacific, 
an IFA working with Marcus James would review all cases in which CIB had been 
involved, carrying out individual meetings with the aim of establishing the 
appropriateness of the arrangement.
I understand Pacific to be another regulated firm. No evidence has been provided about 
whether the review by Pacific took place and/or whether Rowanmoor was told about what happened in the review. So, another concern had been identified. But when we asked 
Rowanmoor to provide evidence of meetings and correspondence in which the nature and 
extent of the advice from CIB was discussed, no evidence was provided to show it had 
done anything about this or that is was followed up.
In another part of the same minutes, it was noted that:
two cases had recently been received from CIB where CIB had amended the 
application form to reflect they were not advisers. [A Rowanmoor director] noted 
that consideration needed to be given as to whether to accept the business. [A 
Rowanmoor director] noted that CIB had been advised that they were not to alter 
Rowanmoors application form but that this had been disregarded. It was agreed 
that [a Rowanmoor director] would review the cases with [another Rowanmoor 
director] to establish if they were reasonable to accept. [A Rowanmoor director] 
was asked to stress to CIB that Rowanmoor would not accept amended 
application forms.
In another meeting from December 2009, it was noted that CIB hadnt given a client full 
information about Rowanmoors fees and Rowanmoor had subsequently had to reach an 
ad hoc fee arrangement with that client. The notes say that this would be raised by 
Rowanmoor with CIB - but despite requesting details of all communications, no evidence 
about that discussion (and whether it took place) has been provided.
So, I think that, from very early on, Rowanmoor was on notice that CIB, although regulated, 
was not a firm that was doing things in a conventional way. It had been introducing 
execution only business for high risk investments in significant volumes and appeared to be 
keen to still do this. There were also concerns about the appropriateness of the advice it 
was giving, such that another firm was asked to review its work. And CIB had altered some 
application forms despite being warned not to do this. So, CIB was not a firm that was 
following Rowanmoors clear instructions either.
The board meeting from April 2010 records that:
Following the discussions at the Board of Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited 
and the work undertaken by key staff in reviewing the position of CIB/Harlequin an 
Insight/Resort Group, the Board confirmed that it was comfortable with the 
outcome. It was agreed that the matter would be removed as an agenda item.
In the course of our investigation, Rowanmoor has been asked to provide evidence of 
any communications it had relating to any meetings/discussions it had with CIB about its 
business model. No evidence has been produced of any meetings/discussions that took 
place after July 2009. So, it looks like the telephone conversation in July 2009 was 
enough for Rowanmoor to be comfortable with what CIB was doing about the above 
issues.
CIB was introducing applications for a high-risk investment
I will discuss the issue of investment due diligence later in the decision. But, I think its 
appropriate here to point out that the nature of the investments that CIB was introducing 
was anomalous.
The vast bulk of the introductions were for investment in TRG with a limited number in 
Harlequin and a small number in other investments. Both Harlequin and TRG were high 
risk, unregulated overseas property developments. I think its fair to say that such 
investments can generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the population  generally sophisticated and/or high net worth investors. The risks are multiplied where 
further funding is necessary from investors to complete the purchases  as was the case 
with the vast majority of the TRG investments.
I think Rowanmoor should have approached these introductions with caution. I think
Rowanmoor was aware of this at the time too as the board meeting minutes it has provided 
show that Rowanmoor was concerned about accepting these kinds of investments.
The July 2009 minutes record:
That there was an additional Board Meeting of Rowanmoor Personal Pensions 
Limited which was due to be held on the afternoon of 21 July 2009 with the 
intention of reviewing overseas property purchases. [The Chairman of the board] 
noted generally that the Board did not want the SIPP to be used solely for the 
purpose of overseas property purchases
And later that:
[The Chairman of the board] noted the arrangement with both Harlequin and 
Resort Group and the concerns that had started to arise in relation to the 
purchase of overseas property.
The meeting considered four key points:
The fact that such property was acceptable to HMRC as part of a 
pension arrangement.
Whether sufficient funds had been received into the pension wrapper 
to enable purchase of all stages of the arrangement by the client
Albeit that RPP is the product provider, whether the company was 
comfortable with the approach of CIB, the introducing IFA to the majority 
of Harlequin properties.
Ensuring that the internal processes of Rowanmoor are 
appropriately followed.
Most of the investments in TRG were deposit based, with further funds required on 
completion of the property development. So, the risks are heightened not only because the 
properties might not be built, but also because customers will need to find additional cash 
at some point when the properties are built.
So, I think Rowanmoor knew that the kind of business that CIB was introducing was risky 
and that heightened caution needed to be exercised when dealing with these kinds of 
applications, even if there was a regulated advice firm involved.
Concerns about how TRG and Rowanmoor were being promoted
Another issue that Rowanmoor was aware of was the involvement of unregulated parties 
in promoting the high risk TRG investment. Rowanmoor has provided emails showing that 
it asked TRG to ensure that such parties removed references to Rowanmoor in 
promotional material to ensure that it was clear that Rowanmoor was not promoting or 
endorsing TRG.Whilst that was a sensible step for Rowanmoor to take to ensure its role was not conflated 
to advising or recommending TRG, I think that Rowanmoor clearly knew that unregulated 
parties were either giving advice about TRG or that there was a risk of this. An internal 
Rowanmoor email from November 2009 sets out that:
We are concerned about the promotion of pension scheme investments being 
undertaken by businesses which do not operate under the control of the Financial 
Services Authority. Whilst these types of investment are acceptable (subject to the
conditions above), references to Rowanmoor Pensions being made appear to:
1. be intended to illustrate Rowanmoor Pensions endorsement of specific
investments;
2. constitute financial advice.
We are not satisfied with the controls in place to monitor the promotion of these 
types of investment and therefore require all reference to Rowanmoor Pensions to 
be removed from existing promotions. Generic references to the acceptability of 
such investments in SIPP or Family Pension Trust are acceptable but should be 
accompanied by a statement to the effect that independent professional financial 
advice should be taken before undertaking any pension scheme investment.
The reaction of the senior member of staff to this email is, I think, telling.
Lost on this one...
We are looking for wordings their agents can use on their websites and these are 
littered with references to Rowanmoor - they are meant to be generic.
It is also fairly aggressive. If I send this to Resort it will probably sever all links with 
one of our few sources of regular business. [my emphasis]
Other emails show that there were internal concerns (again in November 2009) that 
RealSIPP (CIBs appointed representative) was misrepresenting Rowanmoors role by links 
on its website suggesting that Rowanmoor and RealSIPP were connected:
The link itself is very blatant and looks as if we have an Appointed Rep 
relationship. This needs to be taken down in my view. Suggest realsipp try a more 
subtle approach if they want to reference SIPPView.
In any event very naughty not asking us.
The senior member of staff responds:
leave this with me as it will be better if I deal with it
There is no evidence of how the senior member of staff dealt with the issue or whether it was 
raised with CIB at all.
The high volumes of business that CIB was introducing
I think the volumes of business being introduced by CIB was also anomalous. Its clear 
that Rowanmoor kept a good level of management information about the number and 
nature of introductions that CIB had made. I think this is an example of good practice 
identified in the 2009 report which said:Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
But I dont think simply keeping records without scrutinising that information is reasonable. 
As highlighted in the 2009 report, the reason why the records are important is so that 
potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
By the time of Mr Ts application, CIB had introduced 455 applications in just two years. I 
think that Rowanmoor should have looked at this and been concerned that such a high 
volume of introductions, relating almost exclusively to non-mainstream unregulated 
investments was unusual  particularly from a small IFA business. And it should have 
considered how such a small business was able to meet regulatory standards and ensure 
the investments were suitable for such a high volume of customers. Mr T for example, was 
living in Northern Ireland. Rowanmoor should have been querying how CIB, a firm based 
in Kent with no more than 10 advisers at any time during the relevant period, was 
managing to give suitable advice to clients across the country.
This concern ought to have been even greater where a final salary scheme was involved, 
as in Mr Ts case. COBS 19.1.6G states:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interest.
Whilst I acknowledge this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser 
when determining suitability of a pension transfer, it emphasises the regulators concern 
about the potential detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer to. Given the 
nature of its business and regulatory status Id expect Rowanmoor to have been familiar 
with the guidance contained in COBS  even if it didnt apply directly to it.
So, I think Rowanmoor ought to have been aware that the chances of the introduction of 
such a large volume of applications, including Mr Ts business, resulting in a suitable SIPP 
were very small.
Overall, I think the introductions from CIB involved anomalous features and Rowanmoor 
knew or ought to have identified and acted on this. It certainly knew that CIB had 
introduced execution only business in significant volumes and there was a concern about 
the advice it was giving. It also knew there were unregulated parties involved in promoting 
the investment and RealSIPP was misrepresenting its relationship with Rowanmoor.
So, I need to consider whether the steps Rowanmoor took in reaction to these 
circumstances were compliant with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
What should Rowanmoor have done in the circumstances?
I think, knowing all of the above, Rowanmoor - as part of its due diligence on CIB - ought to 
have found out more about how CIB was operating well before Mr Ts application. I think 
that given the concerns Rowanmoor had about introductions from CIB from the outset, it 
would have been fair and reasonable to expect, in-line with its regulatory obligations, for it 
to have made some very specific enquiries and obtained information about CIBs business 
model.As set out above, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance gave an example of 
good practice as:
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments 
they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that 
they are appropriate to deal with.
I think Rowanmoor, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations, should have 
checked with CIB about how it came into contact with potential customers, what its 
arrangements with TRG were, what exactly RealSIPP was doing as the administrator for 
the packages, how and why retail customers were interested in making these 
investments, whether anyone else was providing information to customers, how it was 
able to meet with or speak with all customers, and what marketing material was being 
provided to customers. I think it also would have been good practice to have a written 
agreement with CIB governing the relationship, and clarifying respective responsibilities.
The 2009 Thematic Review says that an example of good practice suggested to firms was 
to have in place Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business. Given the 
importance of the requirement for consumers to have been given advice, it would have 
been good practice for Rowanmoor to include that obligation within the Terms of Business 
agreed with CIB.
I know that Rowanmoor did speak with CIB in July 2009. I think that was good practice and 
a reasonable starting point. However, given the absence of a contemporaneous note, I 
cant be sure of the breadth or detail of that discussion. So, I dont know what was said by 
CIB about its business model. Nevertheless, I accept that its possible that CIB gave some 
assurances to Rowanmoor.
But Ive seen no evidence that Rowanmoor made the type of wider enquiries Ive set out 
above. And, in any event, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Rowanmoor to rely on 
the verbal reassurance by CIB. Given what Ive said about the circumstances of these 
introductions, I think Rowanmoor should have treated any verbal assurance from CIB with a 
degree of caution and satisfied itself by reference to independent evidence that CIB was 
not introducing SIPPs with a significant risk of consumer detriment. At the very least, 
especially in light of the above concerns that Rowanmoor did have, it should have checked 
that any verbal assurances by CIB that customers would receive regulated advice about 
TRG were actually acted on by CIB. If such checks revealed that the verbal assurances 
were not true, it should have ended the relationship or challenged CIB further.
I also cant ignore that there appears to have been a strategic relationship between CIB, 
TRG and Rowanmoor. The evidence that Rowanmoor has provided shows that it was in 
regular contact with TRG and CIB about the submission of large volumes of business, that 
Rowanmoor was the SIPP operator of choice in CIB/TRGs business plan (there is 
reference to Rowanmoor having an exclusive relationship with TRG) and TRG was very 
committed to supporting Rowanmoor.
So, it was never envisaged that this would be business submitted to Rowanmoor by CIB in 
a normal organic way as might happen with other small advice firms. From the outset, 
Rowanmoor knew that CIB would be sending it through high-risk TRG business on a large 
scale. So, I think there was a heightened need for Rowanmoor to be satisfied that there 
wasnt a significant risk of consumer detriment  not just rely on one-off or even occasional 
verbal assurances.Instead, my view is that concerns and risks associated with the business CIB was 
introducing were either raised or known about by Rowanmoor - but no more than lip 
service was paid by Rowanmoor to investigate those matters in order to avoid (to quote 
the Rowanmoor email above) severing all links to one of Rowanmoors few regular 
sources of business.
So, what practical things should it have done? Ive already mentioned that I think putting in 
place documented Terms of Business would have been a good step. Another obvious way 
that Rowanmoor could have satisfied itself about the nature of the advice that CIB giving 
was to request copies of at least some suitability letters.
Rowanmoor says that it didnt request copies of suitability letters from financial advisers as 
it cant second guess the suitability of regulated advice and wasnt qualified to do so. But 
Im not saying that Rowanmoor should have assessed the suitability of the advice or that it 
had to ensure that the SIPP and investment were suitable for Mr T. I agree that this wasnt 
its role. However, I think sight of the suitability reports could have provided Rowanmoor 
with some insight into CIBs business model and assurance that advice was being given by 
CIB about both the SIPP and the investment in TRG.
Im strengthened in my view by the fact that the 2009 report specifically said that an example 
of good practice was:
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
I can also see from the investment application form that, as standard wording, 
Rowanmoor did ask for customers, including Mr T, to provide copies of the advice about 
the investment. The form asked customers to confirm that:
I have taken written advice on the suitability of the investment, a copy of which is 
provided.
Rowanmoor says that this was because the form had been adapted from an older 
application process for a different product. That may well be the case. But I think this still 
shows that Rowanmoor considered it good practice to ask for copies of the advice that 
customers had received. And I think it was good practice  particularly in circumstances
such as this.
Importantly, regardless of whether or not it should have requested, or did request, copies of 
suitability letters, Rowanmoor has confirmed that it did in fact receive copies of suitability 
letters from CIB. It has said that it was provided with copies of suitability reports from CIB in 
respect of at least some clients (and provided an example of one such letter) but was unable 
to confirm that advice reports were provided in respect of all or the majority of clients. So, 
having received copies of some suitability letters, I think Rowanmoor undoubtedly needed to 
take account of what the letters exhibited, given that it ought to have been aware  and 
seemingly was aware  of the risk of consumer detriment here. Ill discuss this further below.
I also think it would have been reasonable, before Mr Ts application, to have at least 
contacted some customers directly. The 2009 report said that:
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could 
then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the 
member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, 
there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are 
unsuitable or detrimental to clients. (my emphasis)
Given the concerns that Rowanmoor had about CIB introducing execution only business 
and the volumes of business being introduced (i.e. after analysing the management 
information available to it), I think it would have been reasonable (and good practice) for 
Rowanmoor to speak to some customers and enquire about the nature of the advice that 
they had been given and to ensure that the customer understood the risks. Theres no 
evidence that it did this.
So, overall, whilst Rowanmoor did take some limited steps to conduct due diligence on CIB, I 
dont think it did everything it needed to do to meet its regulatory obligations in the 
circumstances or comply with good industry practice at the relevant time.
What would Rowanmoor have discovered if it had carried out appropriate due
diligence?
I think if Rowanmoor had carried out the due diligence Ive set out above, it would have 
discovered that most if not all customers introduced by CIB had not received regulated 
advice about TRG from CIB or anyone else. It would have identified its own requirements 
for accepting business were not being met, and should have known there was a significant 
risk of consumer detriment as consumers were transferring/switching their existing pension 
schemes to invest entirely in TRG without the benefit of regulated advice.
Rowanmoor knew that RealSIPP had a role as Administrator and Packager of the 
Rowanmoor SIPP. But I dont think it was clear what this role involved. If Rowanmoor had 
asked for details about this, it would have realised that RealSIPP, on behalf of CIB and TRG, 
effectively marketed the Rowanmoor SIPP to customers as a means to make the TRG 
investment. Knowing this, Rowanmoor should have looked at how the SIPP was being 
marketed.
As set out above, Mr Ts CMC has provided us with the marketing material used by 
RealSIPP. Its a 20-page document headed with the TRG logo and titled Self Invested 
Personal Pension Package. Mr T himself has no recollection of the involvement of 
RealSIPP or indeed CIB at all. But I have no reason to doubt that the document weve 
been provided wasnt used generally by RealSIPP and CIB.
The following are some extracts from the document:
You have been provided this pack because you expressed an interest in purchasing
a Resort Group Property under a special pension structure, generally referred to as a 
Self Invested Personal Pension Plan. In conjunction with ourselves, The Resort 
Group and our Pension Administrators have created an exclusive package to allow 
such investments to be made.
.[On SIPPS] It is important to remember that this type of pension plan is a bespoke 
arrangement and thus should only be used by persons and individuals who are fully 
aware of its benefits and restrictions. Real SIPP LLP does not provide financial 
advice. Our Partner, C.I.B (Life & Pensions) are able to advice you on the suitability 
and use of this pension scheme to meet your requirements. You should however be 
aware that your chosen property investment is not regulated under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act (2000) and thus you will not be protected by any 
legislation surrounding normal investments. Neither Real SIPP LLP or C.I.B (Life 
& Pensions) are able to make any recommendations as to the personal suitability of 
your chosen property investment for your own financial circumstances.
This booklet gives you important information about the exclusive property and 
pension arrangements and is designed to answer any questions you may have.
If after reading this booklet, and the associated information, you wish to proceed 
and use this SIPP to facilitate your property investment, please contact us for an 
application pack. This will contain all the necessary forms to establish your 
scheme, set up any payments and commence the process of purchasing your 
property.
If you have any doubts about whether this pension plan is suited to your needs or 
is affordable or about the investment risks you should seek investment advice.
However, you should be aware that you might have to pay for this advice. Our 
partner, C.I.B (Life & Pensions) is able to provide such advice as part of our overall 
process.
The document then goes on to explain what a SIPP is, some benefits and some of the 
risks associated with them. And then:
If you have existing pension arrangements and you wish to consider transferring 
these into the SIPP we arrange for our partner, CIB (Life & Pensions) Ltd, to provide 
you with advice on the suitability of such a transfer to a SIPP for the purposes of 
enabling your property investment. This initial advice will be provided free of charge 
as part of their normal process. If you require additional advice, our partners CIB 
(Life & Pensions) Ltd are more than happy to provide this under their normal terms 
and conditions. Alternatively you can seek advice from another suitably qualified 
company, but you should be aware that you may have to pay for this advice. A 
suitably qualified adviser can be found can be found by searching your postcode on 
www.unbiased.co.uk.

RealSIPP LLP asks that you consider whether the plan is appropriate for you, given 
your level of knowledge and experience of investments and your understanding of 
the risks involved. In particular you should study carefully the Property and 
Purchase Information provided to you by The Resort Group, and the Key Features 
Document provided by Rowanmoor Pensions. This includes full details of the 
investment risks relevant to the plan and, where applicable, your rights to cancel.
RealSIPP LLP does not give advice to The Resort Group clients with regards to 
the property package and the investment options within it. Our partner, C.I.B (Life 
& Pensions) Ltd restricts its advice to the suitability of a SIPP product to meet
your needs from the information you supply to them on your Client Information form. 
If you have any further doubts as to whether this pension plan is suited to your 
needs or is affordable, or about the investment risks you should seekexpert advice. However, you should be aware that you might have to pay for 
this advice.
In another section of the document, talking about the nature of the SIPP contract 
with Rowanmoor that would be used for the investment, it says:
You should note that you have 30 days in which to cancel this contract if you 
change your mind. However, due to the timescales required by the developer, you 
consider waiving this right as Rowanmoor Pensions cannot begin to register and 
process your scheme until the period is complete.
Rowanmoor says its unlikely that it saw this document at the time, but, as Ive said above, I 
think this is exactly the kind of document that I think Rowanmoor should have asked CIB to 
provide as part of its due diligence to understand what role RealSIPP was playing and what 
marketing information CIB and RealSIPP were providing to customers. I have no reason to 
doubt that CIB would have provided this document had it been asked to do so. Alternatively, 
if Rowanmoor had made reasonable enquiries about RealSIPP, I think those enquiries 
would have exposed similar details about the business model, even if they didnt reveal the 
detriment itself.  So, Rowanmoor ought to have identified the following risks of consumer 
deriment:
It looks like customers had already been sold on the idea of the TRG 
investment, before the involvement of any regulated parties - just as Mr T has 
told us he had been.
RealSIPP was providing documents to customers purportedly not containing any 
advice. But it expected customers to decide for themselves whether to proceed 
with the investment in TRG via a SIPP based on the information contained in the 
document.
CIB would be involved in the application process, but any advice would be 
restricted to the suitability of the SIPP. CIB would not give advice about the 
personal suitability of the TRG investment to customers.
CIB was not speaking with or meeting customers but basing its restricted 
advice about the SIPP purely on a Client Information form.
Customers were being potentially dissuaded from seeking independent advice 
with warnings that this might cost them more.
Customers were being encouraged to waive their cancellation rights.
Each of these matters in isolation are very serious, but cumulatively demonstrate CIB had a 
complete disregard for customers best interests and was not meeting many of its regulatory
obligations otherwise.
I have no doubt that Rowanmoor may say that it did not know that this was how CIB 
operated and that its unreasonable for me to draw conclusions about what it should have 
done based on a document it believes it did not see at the time. Leaving aside the fact that 
I think it ought to have seen this document or discovered similar details about the business 
model, it seems clear that Rowanmoor did see some of the suitability letters produced by 
CIB. It has sent us one such letter as an example of what it was provided.Pausing for a moment here, I know that Mr T says he wasnt provided with a suitability letter 
from CIB or anyone else. That may well be the case and again might evidence the poor 
practices of CIB in providing advice. But it is possible that one was provided to Mr T and has 
been misplaced or lost. Certainly, in other cases Ive seen, CIB did produce suitability letters 
for customers. Whether Mr T was provided with a letter isnt material to my findings here.
What I consider to be important is what Rowanmoor knew or ought to have known about CIB 
generally by the time of his application including in sample suitability letters it was sent  not 
what was set out in the specific advice to Mr T.
And looking at the example suitability letter it has provided, I think some of the alarming 
features of the RealSIPP document are evident from the advice letter.
The letter, dated July 2011 (around the same time as Mr Ts application), says:
You wish to purchase an offshore/offplan investment property within a registered 
pension scheme environment
So, this should have caused Rowanmoor to be concerned that there was a possibility that 
unregulated parties were involved in selling the idea of the TRG investment to customers 
prior to the involvement of CIB.
More obviously, the letter went on to recommend the Rowanmoor SIPP for this 
offshore/offplan investment property  but without any assessment of the investment itself. 
Indeed, nowhere in the letter is the investment (I assume it was TRG) even named. The 
letter said that:
Whenever possible, we would wish to carry out a complete financial review, but at 
your explicit request, our advice is restricted to the consideration of establishing a 
Self Invested Personal Pension to allow you to invest in the offshore development 
of your choice. Should you wish us to consider any other areas, we would be very 
happy to provide further advice, in accordance with the costs and charges laid out 
in the client agreement.
I have seen a number of other CIB suitability letters and all are identical in restricting the 
advice to the SIPP only without any assessment of the underlying investment in TRG. This 
mirrors what is set out as the general business model in the RealSIPP document Ive 
mentioned above. So, I think it is probable that most, if not all, of the suitability letters that 
CIB provided to customers said the same thing, including the other letters sent to 
Rowanmoor by CIB. I invite Rowanmoor to tell me if that is wrong.
Several of the suitability letters Ive seen show that CIB advised consumers that:
We do not to believe that the use of a SIPP package matches your attitude to 
investment risk as confirmed in the fact find, nor will it best meet your agreed 
objectives and you are not in a position to give up your occupational benefits
This doesnt change my view about CIBs approach to giving advice. The customers which 
CIB advised in this way still went on to open SIPPs with Rowanmoor and make 
investments in TRG. So, Im not sure that the suitability letters reflect what the customers 
were really told. In any event, its clear to me that the real issue here is the lack of 
regulated advice about the TRG investment and that consumers were highly unlikely to be 
making properly informed decisions. I think Rowanmoor should have realised this too 
whether or not some of the letters they received from CIB advised customers that the SIPP 
package wasnt suitable.As Ive highlighted earlier in this decision, the regulator issued an alert in 2013 setting out 
that this type of restricted advice did not meet regulatory requirements. It said the 
provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of the suitability of the overall 
proposition, that is, the wrapper (here the SIPP) and the expected underlying investments 
in unregulated schemes (TRG). To be clear, this was not a new expectation and I would 
expect this to be something that everyone involved in the pensions industry would already 
have been aware of. Indeed, Im satisfied that Rowanmoor was aware of this at the time 
and knew this to be a serious matter as it wrote to CIB in January 2013 after the regulators 
alert saying that:
We have historically pointed out to intermediaries that if they advise on the 
establishment of the SIPP, they must also advice [sic] on the underlying investment 
strategy. The FSA Alert not only confirmed this, but also places upon Rowanmoor 
Personal Pensions Limited, as SIPP operator, an obligation to whistle blow should 
we see examples where we believe such advice has not been given.
Im aware that the Rowanmoor board meeting notes from August 2009 show that CIB had 
reassured Rowanmoors compliance director in a telephone conversation that CIB would 
be giving full advice going forward. Ive referred to this above. Im also aware that in 
response to Rowanmoors letter in 2013, CIB provided written assurance to Rowanmoor 
that its process is (and was) already beyond the FSA announcement.
But, as Ive explained above, I dont think it was reasonable for Rowanmoor to rely on 
verbal assurances given by CIB in 2009. I think at best, the verbal assurances were a 
starting point  but only alongside other checks. And if it did rely on the verbal assurances, 
it should have been alarmed when it later saw suitability letters that clearly contradicted 
what it was told. Put simply, Rowanmoor should have known that CIB wasnt being truthful 
about this very serious matter.
So, although it wasnt the party that was giving advice here, as a regulated party, I think 
Rowanmoor ought to have been very concerned that there was evidence that CIBs 
business model involved the introduction of very large numbers of customers who were 
clearly receiving advice about the SIPP but not TRG. This was raised as a concern by 
Rowanmoors board in 2009 and accepting business where full advice had not been given 
went against its own agreed policy.
To reiterate, it seems that Rowanmoor was sent at least some suitability letters by CIB and 
I think all will have demonstrated that CIB was restricting its advice to the SIPP and not 
TRG. But even if Rowanmoor wasnt sent suitability letters by CIB, I think it would have 
been fair and reasonable in the circumstances involved in these introductions for 
Rowanmoor to have requested and reviewed some letters.
If Rowanmoor had also checked the position with at least some customers introduced by
CIB (as I think it should have done in accordance with good industry practice), I think that 
this too would have revealed the significant failures in the advice process. For example, if Mr 
T had been contacted by Rowanmoor, I think its very likely that he would have confirmed 
that he had not been advised by CIB about TRG. In fact, he would probably have told 
Rowanmoor that he had no idea who CIB was at all. Given the evidenced practices of CIB, I 
think its likely that other customers would have said the same if Rowanmoor had contacted 
them before it accepted Mr Ts application.
Having discovered this, what should Rowanmoor have concluded?
Despite CIB being a regulated firm, Rowanmoor should have concluded that customers 
introduced by CIB were likely being sold on the idea of the TRG investment by unregulated parties and, most importantly, not receiving advice about the TRG investment 
from CIB. The applications were being introduced by CIB in high volumes and it was likely 
that most of these applications would result in unsuitable SIPPs. As such, Rowanmoor 
should have concluded that it was not in accordance with its regulatory obligations, nor its 
own process requirements to accept introductions from CIB. I think its reasonable to say 
that Rowanmoor should have arrived at this conclusion long before it accepted Mr Ts 
application  some two years after it first accepted applications from CIB - and where 
concerns had been raised about the business practices of CIB).
The fact that Rowanmoor was not authorised to give advice didnt preclude it from meeting 
its regulatory obligations by thinking carefully about the quality of the business it was 
accepting. Declining to accept business doesnt amount to providing advice  and 
Rowanmoor could have declined to accept Mr Ts application for a SIPP without providing 
investment advice.
As such, Rowanmoor didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control 
its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr T fairly by accepting his application from CIB. To my 
mind, Rowanmoor didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the 
relevant time, and allowed Mr T to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result. I 
therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that 
Rowanmoor should not have accepted Mr Ts application from CIB.
What about Rowanmoors due diligence on the TRG investment?
Rowanmoor had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether an 
investment itself is acceptable for inclusion into a SIPP. That is consistent with the 
Principles for Businesses and the regulators publications as set out above in the 
background section of my decision. It is also consistent with HMRC Rules that govern 
what investments can be held in a SIPP.
I accept that the TRG investment doesnt appear to be fraudulent or a scam. The 
development has in fact been built and is used by large holiday tour companies. But this 
doesnt mean that Rowanmoor did all the checks it needed to do. In fact, it appears to 
accept that independent local Cape Verdean legal advice wasnt obtained about the trust 
structure for holding individual properties in SIPPs.
However, given what Ive said about Rownmoors due diligence on CIB and my conclusion 
that it failed to comply with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice at the 
relevant time, I dont think it is necessary for me to also consider Rowanmoors due 
diligence on TRG at this stage. Im satisfied that Rowanmoor was not treating Mr T fairly or 
reasonably when it accepted his introduction from CIB, so I have not gone on to consider 
the due diligence it may have carried out on the TRG investment and whether this was 
sufficient to meet its regulatory obligations. As such, I dont make any findings about this.
Is it fair for Rowanmoor to compensate Mr T as a result of its failings?
I acknowledge that the Rowanmoor SIPP application form recommended that Mr T take 
independent financial advice and that he signed the transfer in application form 
acknowledging that he had taken advice from a regulated financial adviser about this 
investment. He also signed a letter saying that he knew there were inherent risks involved in 
these transactions and would not pursue Rowanmoor for losses.
But, I dont think that its fair and reasonable that Rowanmoor should have no responsibility 
for Mr Ts losses simply because he signed the documents he did. As Ive highlighted 
earlier, Rowanmoors regulatory obligations meant that it needed to consider whether it was acting fairly in accepting Mr Ts introduction from CIB. This is different from providing 
investment advice. Rowanmoor needed to consider whether, in all the circumstances 
accepting the introduction from CIB was consistent with that duty.
As Ive made clear, Rowanmoor needed to carry out appropriate due diligence on CIB and 
reach the right conclusions. It failed to do this. Just asking Mr T to sign declarations was 
not an effective way of meeting its obligations, or escaping liability where it failed to meet its 
obligations. In particular, I think Rowanmoor could take no meaningful comfort from the 
declaration stating that Mr T had taken advice in relation to the TRG investment given what 
it knew or ought to have known about CIBs business model. Likewise, when Mr T signed to 
say that he was aware of the inherent risks, I do not consider it to have been fair or 
reasonable for Rowanmoor to conclude that he did so with a full understanding of what this 
meant - even if he had received a suitability letter from CIB  given what Rowanmoor knew, 
or ought to have known about CIBs business model. In fact, I have no reason to doubt Mr 
T when he says he wasnt told about any risks by anyone at all.
I accept that another regulated party was involved here - CIB. Rowanmoor says that its 
CIB who is really responsible for Mr Ts losses. But, our Service cant look at a complaint 
against CIB as it was dissolved and no longer exists as a regulated business. To be clear, 
Im not making a finding that Rowanmoor should have assessed the suitability of the 
investment or the SIPP for Mr T. I accept that Rowanmoor had no obligation to give advice 
to Mr T, or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. Im 
looking at Rowanmoors separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
Rowanmoor also says that Mr T would likely have proceeded with the transfer of his pension 
regardless of the actions it took, and CIB could have made an introduction elsewhere.
Rowanmoor also says if it had not accepted business at the outset, CIB would have started 
making introductions to a different provider long before Mr Ts application was made, and 
there is no evidence that other SIPP operators would have refused this business.
I dont find this a compelling argument. As Ive explained, CIBs business model was based 
on submitting large volumes of business through Rowanmoor. If Rowanmoor had refused 
to accept introductions from CIB, I think its likely that CIB would have entered a similar 
arrangement involving large volumes of business with another SIPP operator. Had it done 
so I think its fair to assume that another SIPP provider wouldnt have processed the 
transaction if it had carried out sufficient due diligence on CIB in accordance with its own 
regulatory responsibilities and good industry practice.
Furthermore, theres no evidence that Mr T was so keen on the TRG investment that he 
would have submitted the application to Rowanmoor via a regulated advice firm other than 
CIB. If he had approached another advice firm, its likely that he would have been told in no 
uncertain terms that he should leave his pension arrangement as it was, and I think he 
would have listened to that advice. Mr T has confirmed that if Rowanmoor had not 
accepted the transfer and he was made aware of the risks, then he would have left his 
pension where it was.
In any event, those scenarios are hypothetical. I think its fairer to deal with what I 
consider to be the cold facts involved in this case  Mr Ts application from CIB shouldnt 
have been accepted by Rowanmoor. Accepting the application has caused a loss to Mr T 
which I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to ask Rowanmoor 
to compensate him for.
Im satisfied that Mr T would not have continued with the SIPP and investment in TRG, had 
it not been for Rowanmoors failings, and would have remained in his existing pension scheme. And, whilst I accept that CIB is responsible for initiating the course of action that 
has led to his loss, I consider that Rowanmoor failed to comply with its own regulatory 
obligations and did not put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity and 
obligation to do so.
Rowanmoor didnt have to carry out an assessment of Mr Ts needs and circumstances in 
order to meet its regulatory requirements, but it did have to treat Mr T fairly under the 
Principles.
I am satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, that it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Rowanmoor should compensate Mr T for the loss he has 
suffered.
In making these findings, I have taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Mr T  including CIB. In my view, in considering what fair 
compensation looks like in this case, it is reasonable to make an award against 
Rowanmoor that requires it to compensate Mr T for the full measure of his loss. CIB was 
reliant on Rowanmoor to facilitate access to Mr Ts pension. So, but for Rowanmoors 
failings, Mr Ts pension transfer would not have occurred in the first place.
As such, I am not asking Rowanmoor to account for loss that goes beyond the 
consequences of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the 
loss in question. That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a 
distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, that fact should not impact on 
Mr Ts right to fair compensation from Rowanmoor for the full amount of his loss.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances of this case, it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Rowanmoor 
should not have accepted Mr Ts application from CIB. For the reasons I have set out, I also 
think it is fair to ask Rowanmoor to compensate Mr T for the loss he has suffered.
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Options judgment but also
bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr T to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Rowanmoors failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr 
Ts SIPP application from CIB.
In light of the above, Rowanmoor should calculate fair compensation by comparing the 
current position to the position Mr T would be in if he had not transferred from his 
existing pension. In summary, Rowanmoor should:
Calculate the loss Mr T has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
Take ownership of the TRG investment if possible.
Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ts pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr T direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.Pay 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Rowanmoor should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in 
further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr T has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the loss 
calculation)
Rowanmoor should calculate redress for Mr Ts NILGOSC pension in line with The 
FCAs pension review guidance in October 2017 
(https: //www.fca.org.uk/publicat ion/finalised- guidance/fg17-9.pdf) using the most recent 
financial assumptions published.
2. Take ownership of the TRG investment
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment 
needs to be removed from the SIPP. To do this, Rowanmoor should calculate an amount it 
is willing to accept as a commercial value for TRG and pay that sum into the SIPP and take 
ownership of the relevant investments. This amount should be taken into account for the 
loss calculation.
If Rowanmoor is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the value of it should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Provided Mr T is compensated in full. Rowanmoor may ask Mr T to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount Mr T may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If Rowanmoor does not take ownership of the of the TRG investment, and it continues to be
held in Mr Ts SIPP there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP.
Mr T would not be responsible for those fees if Rowanmoor had not accepted the transfer 
of his personal pension in to the SIPP. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for Rowanmoor 
to waive any SIPP fees until such time as Mr T can dispose of the TRG investment and 
close the SIPP.
3. Pay compensation to Mr T for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr T has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into his SIPP. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for 
the income tax relief Mr T could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ts marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr T may not be able to pay the compensation into the SIPP. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr T direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr T should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ts marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr T is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
I appreciate that Mr T has been paid some compensation by the FSCS. But, like the 
investigator before me, I dont think I can ignore the terms of the reassignment agreement 
he had to sign as part of his claim to the FSCS. To do so would mean that Mr T would not 
be compensated for Rowanmoors failings  which, as Ive said above, has caused his 
entire loss irrespective of the separate roles and obligations of other parties.
So, I will make no allowance for what has been paid by the FSCS and award Mr T 
compensation for the full loss he has suffered. He will not benefit from double-recovery as 
a term of his reassignment from the FSCS was that he will need to pay back any monies it 
awarded to him.
If Rowanmoor believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it is free 
to pursue those other parties. So compensation payable to Mr T should be contingent on 
the assignment by him to Rowanmoor of any rights of action he may have against other 
parties in relation to his transfer to the SIPP and the investments.
4. Pay 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr T has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money Mr T cannot afford to lose and its loss has caused him to lose all 
confidence in pension providers. I consider that a payment of 500 is appropriate to 
compensate for that upset.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Rowanmoor 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
my provisional decision
For the reasons given, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint against 
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to 150,000, plus any interest and or costs that I think are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than 150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
The full extent of Mr Ts losses have not yet been calculated (as set out above), but it is 
possible his loss may exceed the 150,000 award limit.
Decision and award: I provisionally uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Rowanmoor should pay Mr T the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 150,000. It should also pay any 
interest accrued if the compensation is not paid within 28 days of acceptance of a final 
decision by Mr T.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than 150,000, I recommend that Rowanmoor pays Mr T the balance.This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Rowanmoor doesnt have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr T can accept my decision and go to court for 
the balance. Mr T may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
I now invite responses from the parties.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman