DRN-4196750
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Soteria Insurance Limited handled his claim for subsidence on his 
home insurance. 
What happened
Mr L had home insurance that was underwritten by Soteria. In September 2019 he made a 
claim after he noticed cracks around the rear of his property. 
Soteria accepted the claim and after site investigations, identified the cause of the 
subsidence as a tree owned by Mr Ls neighbour. This was removed in June 2020.
After this Soteria assessed the damage again and concluded that some of it was due to 
wear and tear, rather than subsidence. It only agreed to cover repairs to the utility room and 
said damage to the conservatory style roof of the kitchen and upstairs rooms werent 
subsidence related.  
Unhappy with this, Mr L instructed his own expert to review the damage. They produced a 
report that concluded the damage was likely due to subsidence and that there should be 
further pruning of surrounding vegetation before monitoring is carried out to check stability. 
Following the report Soteria agreed to cover the concrete courtyard area and a broken utility 
room window. It also said it would carry out further monitoring. However it said it wouldnt 
cover the roof of the kitchen or the cracks in the upstairs of the building. 
Mr L made a complaint. He said Soteria had originally said it would cover all the damage and 
then reneged on that later in the claim. He also said the claim had taken a long time to 
progress which had impacted his career as he had intended to move, in order to complete a 
training course.
Soteria agreed it had caused some delays to the claim and offered £750 compensation to 
apologise for these. However it maintained its position on the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr L 
brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the damage to the 
kitchen area should be covered as the evidence available suggested this was most likely 
caused by subsidence. However she thought Soteria had acted fairly by declining the 
damage to the upstairs bathroom, but this should be reassessed after further monitoring. 
She also thought Soterias offer of £750 compensation was fair in the circumstances so 
didnt ask it to pay anything more. 
Soteria didnt agree with our investigators outcome. It said its expert had concluded the 
damage to the kitchen was due to wear and tear and Mr Ls report wasnt persuasive as it 
was based on only a limited inspection. Its said it was carrying out further monitoring as 
recommended in Mr Ls report and if this showed that the damage was caused by 
subsidence it would cover it then. 
Mr L accepted our investigators outcome, although he thought more compensation was due 
because of the impact the claim had had on the training he intended to partake in, which had 
an impact on his career. 
Soteria asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, it is first for the insured to show that there is an insured 
peril  something thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the 
claim or show that an exclusion applies.
Here, Soteria has accepted that there is an insured peril  subsidence. And has agreed to 
cover some of the repairs to the damage to Mr Ls property. However it hasnt agreed to 
cover all areas, I need to decide if its acted fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ls 
claim.
The cracking at Mr Ls property occurred in the kitchen, utility room and two rooms upstairs. 
As well as the external driveway. Soteria agreed that most of the damage to the kitchen and 
utility area downstairs was caused by subsidence. However it said the conservatory style 
roof of the kitchen was damaged due to wear and tear rather than subsidence and this was 
excluded under the policy. 
Ive considered whether this was a fair conclusion based on the evidence and I dont think 
Soteria has done enough to show the exclusion would apply. 
The report from Soterias loss adjuster states as follows:
As discussed following site visit we can confirm there is no subsidence damage to the 
conservatory roof, as per photographic evidence the damage has been caused due to 
gradually operating cause (W&T, and lack of maintenance)
Accompanying these comments are a number of photos of the roof. However there are no 
obvious signs of wear and tear. The roof looks to be in a good overall condition with no 
major signs of deterioration. There are some areas where moss and other plant debris has 
fallen on to the roof, but nothing to show that it hasnt been maintained. 
Further, Mr L had a home buyer report completed in 2018, just a year before the subsidence 
issue was noticed. This comments on the roof covering directly and states:
The single storey section to the rear has a uPVC fascia which appears to be in generally 
satisfactory condition.
So if there was wear and tear, it would have developed in the year from 2018 to 2019 which 
seems unlikely, considering the nature of that kind of damage. 
Additionally, Mr Ls own report also comments on the roof:
The roof of UPVC construction with twin wall sheeted panels has obviously suffered some 
distortion as a result of movement and the panels are leaking. There is some rainwater 
ingress along the gutter, but no defect of the conservatory construction was noted therefore 
we need to consider that this is due to movement.Based on all the evidence, I think its most likely that the damaged to the conservatory style 
roof of the kitchen was caused by subsidence. Soteria hasnt done enough to show that the 
damage was due to wear and tear and Mr Ls own expert concludes the damage is due to 
distortion from the movement. 
Further the damaged roof is in close proximity to the areas of damage that Soteira has 
accepted as subsidence, and therefore it seems likely the roof would also be affected. For 
these reasons, I agree with our investigator that Soteria should cover Mr Ls claim for the 
conservatory style roof as part of his subsidence claim and include the repair as part of the 
settlement. 
Ive also considered the damage to the upstairs rooms that Soteria has said isnt caused by 
subsidence. Soterias loss adjuster has said that due to the position of the cracks and the 
distance from the source of the subsidence, these are unlikely to be linked. And Mr Ls report 
makes no comment on the cause of these cracks, other than to note their position in the 
building and that they are likely to be historic. Based on this, I dont think theres enough 
evidence to suggest that the cracks in the upstairs building are linked to the subsidence. So I 
think Soteria has acted fairly by not including these as part of the claim.
However should any additional evidence arise that suggests it is linked following the 
monitoring or investigations then Id expect Soteria to consider this further. 
Compensation
Soteria has agreed the claim hasnt progressed as well as it should have and its offered 
£750 compensation to make up for this. 
Mr L made the claim in September 2019. While there was a small delay to begin with in 
arranging the temporary repairs, the claim largely progressed as Id expect until the tree was 
removed in June 2020. 
However after this, it was a further two years before any meaningful progress was made. 
And during this time, Mr L contacted Soteria on a number of occasions and didnt receive a 
response. Due to Soterias inaction, Mr L decided to instruct his own expert to review the 
damage to his property. Which he paid £1,500 for at the time. While Im pleased to see 
Soteria has now reimbursed Mr L for this amount it would have been inconvenient for him to 
do so at the time. 
Mr L has explained that due to the delay to the claim, he has had to change his plans for a 
period of training he was undertaking as part of his career. And was forced to stay in the 
location of the property rather than to move to a new house in order to train in an area he 
thought more desirable. 
While I dont doubt the time it has taken to resolve the claim has had an impact on Mr Ls 
plans, I consider the consequences of this to be too remote to hold Soteria responsible for. 
This is because it isnt possible to know exactly what would have happened had Soteria 
progressed the claim promptly or what the lasting impact would have been. I understand Mr 
L was still able to carry out the training in the area of the property, just not in the location he 
wished to. So its difficult to calculate the impact of this.
Further, subsidence claims are lengthy by nature, and not all of the delays can be attributed 
to Soterias actions. Even if Soteria had moved matters on more promptly, its likely it still 
would have taken some time for the house to be stabilised and repaired. So this may have 
still had an impact on Mr Ls training. For these reasons, I think Soterias offer of £750 compensation is fair in the circumstances 
and is in line with what I would have asked it to pay if it hadnt made an offer. So I wont ask 
it to pay any additional compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Soteria Insurance Limited to 
include the damage to the kitchen ceiling as part of Mr Ls claim for subsidence, and settle it 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman