DRN-3804892
The complaint
Mr P complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly cancelled his home
appliance cover.
What happened
Mr P had an add-on to his bank account. For a £6 fee each month he could - amongst other
things - register home appliances with D&G. The appliances, according to the banks product
information, would need to be new, purchased by Mr P, and registered with D&G within 90
days of purchase. Registered appliances would be covered, with a policy set up for each
appliance. Each policy would provide an extended warranty, and accidental damage cover.
In 2022 D&G decided to cancel Mr Ps home appliance cover. It said, in summary, that it had
undertaken a review and found claims from Mr P had been too frequent and unlikely to have
been coincidental or unintentional. Mr P responded to say there were a lot of claims because
of his specific circumstances at home. D&G considered this. It didnt change its decision to
cancel the cover, but it did agree to honour outstanding claims.
Mr P didnt think hed been treated fairly, so he asked our service for an independent review.
He said it would cost him nearly £2,000 a year to purchase cover from elsewhere. He
wanted his policies reinstated. The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He
recommended D&G consider some claims and pay Mr P £150 compensation. D&G paid the
compensation but issues around claims persisted. The complaint is with me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To cancel Mr Ps cover D&G has relied on the following terms:
Our right to cancel and termination of your policy
2. If you fail to comply with certain conditions and obligations (see Important
conditions and obligations above) we may terminate your Policy and we wont
provide any further services to you under the Policy.
Important conditions and obligations
Conditions
The following conditions apply to Home Essentials and Appliance Cover and to each
of your Policies:
-You must provide us with any information that we request when you apply 
for the Policy. All information you give must not be false, exaggerated or 
misleading;
The banks product information says:
Fraud
The Extended Warranty Cover will not be valid if a) any information you give us is
false, exaggerated, or misleading; or b) any relevant information is omitted.
I find these terms reasonable given the nature of an insurance contract. What I must 
decide, therefore, is whether D&G applied them fairly. To explain its decision D&G 
has provided information demonstrating Mr Ps appliance registration and claims 
history.
The claim which led to D&Gs review was for an iPhone. Mobile phones arent 
covered by this insurance contract. And Im satisfied the terms of the policy clearly 
explain this. As I understand it, when Mr P registered the phone, he selected that the 
appliance was an iPad. There was no option for Mr P to select for a mobile phone  
given the policy doesnt cover these. And when prompted to include the model 
number, he typed in Apple I ph one 8, seemingly using spaces to achieve the 
format required. D&G say Mr P gave false and/or misleading information here and 
consider Mr P was attempting to gain a benefit on the cover to which he wasnt 
entitled. I find D&G came to a fair and reasonable conclusion here. When D&G 
cancels one of Mr Ps policies for an issue like this, I consider it reasonable for it to 
cancel the other policies he holds  namely, the policies he had for other appliances.
Keeping with Apple goods, the registration and claims history shows when Mr P 
made a claim for accidental damage to his iPad (he says he ran over it with his car), 
he was unable to show proof of purchase. And on the date this iPad was registered, 
Mr P also registered three other iPads and an iPod. And hed registered another iPad 
the previous day, another iPod a week earlier, and two iPods the week before that. In 
all, nine iPad/iPods were registered in less than two weeks.
Other things from the appliance registration and claims history, which D&G has 
drawn to my attention, include, but arent limited to:
- Between January 2019 and February 2022 Mr P registered over 100 
appliances and made over 50 claims for accidental damage.
- Mr P registered 15 TVs in about an 18-month period, including:
ofour TVs on 11 February 2020
osix TVs on 18 September 2021
- Between 18 September 2021 and 21 October 2021 - about a month - Mr 
P registered 61 items with a combined declared value of about £21,000. 
This included, but isnt limited to:
osix TVs and nine iPads/iPods as set out above
ofour laptops
otwo computer/computer equipment
ofour vacuum cleaners
otwo washing machines
otwo dryers
otwo dishwashers
otwo ovensofour ebook readers
othree games consoles
osix audio systems/equipment
otwo DVD players
otwo home cinema systems
D&G has provided some further commentary. It says Mr P has been registering 
appliances for which he cannot provide proof of purchase (such as with the iPad, 
and on other occasions). It says this is in breach of the eligibility criteria. D&G says 
the accidental damage claims have often been close to policy inception, with 13 
being within three months of inception and nine being within 30 days of inception. It 
says this is unusual.
To sum up, D&G argues Mr P has provided false, exaggerated or misleading 
information  namely, with the way he registered the iPad. And it considers the 
appliance registration and claims history cumulatively demonstrates acts which are 
coordinated and not merely coincidental, which goes against the purpose of this type 
of insurance contract.
I find, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, D&G has acted fairly and 
reasonably. I find it was reasonable for D&G to consider the iPad registration a clear 
example of false and/or misleading information being provided. And I find it 
reasonable for D&G to consider the appliance registration and claims history - even 
with the backdrop of what Mr P has said about his home life - to unlikely represent 
the cover being used solely for genuine appliances and accidents, given Mr P would 
unlikely purchase appliances in the numbers, types and timings the registrations 
indicate, or that accidents would so frequently require a claim to be made.
I accept Mr P will be disappointed, but my provisional decision is that I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
D&G accepted my provisional decision. Mr P didnt. He said, in summary, that D&G 
registered the iPhone as an iPad, not him. That D&G often registered items incorrectly. That 
there were often duplicate items registered because of errors on D&Gs website or were the 
result of items being replaced following claims. Mr P set out his family circumstances and 
general dissatisfaction with how registrations and claims were handled and recorded. Mr P 
also questioned the validity of D&Gs records.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says D&G registered the iPhone as an iPad. Im not persuaded thats the case. I say 
this because I have seen a screenshot of the registration system which shows it was keyed 
by a web user, which would be Mr P. And I find it unlikely a D&G call handler would 
knowingly register an item which wasnt covered and enter the model number in the way it 
was entered. As I set out in my provisional decision, this registration was enough on its own 
for D&G to fairly decide to cancel Mr Ps other policies.  
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me D&Gs registration phone line routinely registered items incorrectly as Mr P suggests. Nor have I seen evidence of duplications 
through repeated website errors, and I note items registered as the same type on the same 
day often have different declared values. While I accept replacement items and Mr Ps family 
circumstances might explain a higher-than-expected number of items, I dont consider those 
enough to explain the volume of items registered in such short time periods.
Mr P questions D&Gs records. As its provided his appliance registration and claims history 
in an excel format, he says it could have input what it wanted. I accept his point. But Im 
satisfied I can rely on the information. I say this because D&G says the information was 
compiled as part of its review. I can understand why that would be the case. Given the 
volume of registrations and claims it would be difficult to assess the whole without compiling 
a summary. Mr P hasnt shown anything in the information D&G has provided is false. And 
given D&Gs legal and regulatory requirements around the provision of information, I find it 
unlikely it knowingly input false information.
I still find, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, D&G has acted fairly and 
reasonably. It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman