DRN-2909458
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) failed to progress his claim for potential 
mis-selling of payment protection insurance (PPI). Hes also unhappy that they didnt keep 
him properly updated about the progress of his claim. 
What happened
Mr L believed he may have been mis-sold PPI by a bank  Ill refer to them as Bank B. On 
20 May 2019 Mr L signed a letter of authority, allowing TCG to make a PPI claim against 
Bank B on his behalf.
On 1 August 2019 Mr L emailed TCG for an update. They replied saying theyd chased Bank 
B and were awaiting an update.
 
TCG sent a request to Bank B on 5 August 2019, asking whether any of Mr Ls accounts had 
included PPI. Bank B responded to TCG on 2 January 2020, saying PPI may have been 
included on a loan account Mr L had previously held with them. 
Mr L emailed TCG on 2 February 2020, asking for an update. They replied, saying they were 
awaiting a further update from Bank B. Mr L says he opted out of TCGs marketing emails on 
14 February 2020, but he assumed hed still receive updates about his claim.
On 18 May 2020 Mr L again emailed TCG for an update. They replied, saying the initial 
response from Bank B indicated he may have had PPI and that theyd requested further 
information about this. They asked if hed like to opt back in to email communications  Mr L 
agreed. 
Mr L emailed TCG on 14 October 2020, again asking for an update on his claim. They 
replied saying it was now too late to process any new mis-sold PPI claims, because the 
deadline was 29 August 2019.
 
Mr L complained. TCG accepted that, although theyd submitted an initial enquiry to Bank B 
before the PPI deadline, they hadnt asked him for further information they needed to 
progress things. They said the update they gave him in May 2020 was incorrect. They said 
they shouldve told him his claim was no longer progressing and that he couldnt opt back in 
to email contact. They awarded him £250 in compensation for their failure to progress his 
claim. They awarded a further £100 compensation for the incorrect information theyd given 
him in May 2020 and their failure to confirm his claim wouldnt be progressing.
Our investigator felt she couldnt say for certain that Mr L had lost out financially as a result 
of TCGs failure to progress his claim. She thought £350 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the loss of opportunity, poor service and the distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigators view. He said TCG had offered compensation for 
issuing an incorrect email in May 2020, but they hadnt offered him anything for a similar 
incorrect email sent in February 2020. Mr L felt his claim could probably have been pursued 
if theyd properly checked the situation before sending that email. 
Our investigator went back to Bank B for more information about the loan theyd previously 
said may have had PPI attached. In response, Bank B provided a copy of an internal 
statement showing Mr L hadnt been sold PPI with that loan.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
It isnt disputed that TCG made mistakes  and failed to progress Mr Ls claim before the 
deadline. I appreciate how upsetting and frustrating it must have been for Mr L to be told 
hed missed the opportunity to claim for mis-sold PPI. Especially when hed chased TCG 
several times and received assurances that the relevant enquiries were being made. 
TCG sent Mr L a cheque for £350 to compensate him for their errors. Mr L doesnt think this 
is enough to recognise the amount of money he might have received if theyd progressed his 
claim properly, so weve looked into this for him.
In response to TCGs initial request, Bank B replied saying one of Mr Ls loan accounts may 
have had PPI attached. TCG accept that they shouldve made further enquiries about this. 
The evidence Bank B have now provided to our investigator shows no PPI was attached to 
the loan. Bank B have also said that, even though the official claims deadline has now 
passed, theyd nevertheless consider accepting a complaint from Mr L if he believes he was 
in fact sold PPI. Mr L has told us that he doesnt have any supporting paperwork that might 
suggest PPI was attached to the loan. 
As Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr L might have been sold PPI, Im unable to say he 
lost out financially due to TCGs errors. Ill move on to consider the trouble and upset hes 
been caused. Mr L doesnt think hes been adequately compensated for the stress, anxiety 
and strain he suffered. He feels TCGs response to his complaint and offer of compensation 
only acknowledged the incorrect update to him in May 2020, when in fact theyd also given 
him incorrect information in February 2020. Ive considered the points hes made about this.
The evidence Ive seen confirms TCG sent Mr L emails on 2 February and 20 May 2020 
advising him that they were still awaiting information from Bank B. And that this wasnt 
accurate, because in fact they hadnt followed up on information Bank B sent them on 2 
January 2020. I can understand Mr Ls frustration at TCG twice failing to notice his claim 
hadnt been progressed  despite him emailing them for updates. I can see this has added to 
the upset hes felt about his claim not being progressed. Ive taken that into account when 
considering the amount of compensation appropriate here.
 
TCG operate on a no win no fee basis. As they failed to progress his claim, Mr L will pay 
nothing for their services. In addition to the £250 compensation for failing to progress his 
claim, they awarded Mr L £100 for their incorrect email sent on 20 May 2020 and 
subsequent delay in confirming that his claim wouldnt be progressed any further. I think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I dont consider it appropriate for me to direct 
TCG to do anything more. 
I said I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I invited the parties to make any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further comments in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about the Claims Guys Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman