DRN-3417742
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr C with a loan for £1,800.00 in September 2015. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £107. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
Mr Cs complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr C with his loan. 
Avant Credit disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr C could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Avant Credit may argue that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a light touch 
assessment would have been proportionate here. But Im mindful that Mr C had a very low 
income  an annual income less than the personal allowance before income tax is due - and 
the credit search information Avant Credit has itself provided suggests that Mr C had existing 
defaults on his credit file.  
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr Cs expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr C was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also found out why 
this was the case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown Avant Credit that Mr Cs existing precarious financial position was 
because he was struggling. So Im persuaded by what Mr C has said about already being in 
a difficult financial position at the time. 
And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out about   
Mr Cs income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown 
Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan. As Avant Credit provided Mr C with this 
loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr C ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr C lost out because of what Avant Credit did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr C by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr C made, whether to Avant Credit or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,800.00 originally lent. If 
Mr C has already repaid more than £1,800.00 then Avant Credit should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr C to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Cs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-
party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account 
and its the case that Mr C is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman