DRN-2684996
The complaint
Mr K complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited initially declined his 
pet insurance claim and that it took too long to reconsider its decision. My references to 
Red Sands include its agents.  
What happened
Mr K had pet insurance policy for his cat, insured by Red Sands. The policy covered 
conditions for 365 days after the condition was first noted by Mr K or his vet, subject to the 
policy terms and limits.
On 24 May 2020 Mr Ks cat was taken to an emergency vet with symptoms of a blocked 
bladder and he had an emergency bladder drain. Mr K presumed the cost would be covered 
by the policy. He called his usual vet several times over the next week as his cat was still 
unwell but he was concerned about costs and decided to monitor the situation. Mr Ks cats 
urination problems continued and he was seen by the vet on 2 June 2020.
Red Sands received a pre-authorisation claim from the vet on the 2 June 2020 for the 
condition Blocked Bladder/FLUTD (Feline Lower Urinary Tract Disease) and a claim for the 
vet costs already incurred.
Red Sands rejected the claims on 3 June. It said the vet records showed that Mr Ks cat had 
cystitis and/or urination problems in 2017 so more than 365 days had passed since the vet 
first noted the problem and there was no cover for the 2020 claims.
Mr K told Red Sands his cat had never been treated for, or had any history of, urinary 
conditions but it was something he had mentioned to the vet in 2017 after doing his own 
research. Mr K sent Red Sands old invoices of vet treatment which he said showed the cat 
hadnt been treated previously for a urinary condition.
Red Sands maintained its decision and Mr K complained to it on 4 June 2020.
On 19 June 2020 Red Sands wrote to Mr K that on further consideration it would pay the 
claim. It also said he should submit any costs hed incurred for the treatment he asked to be 
pre-authorised for it to assess.
Sadly, two days previously Mr Ks cat had been put to sleep. Mr K told us his cats condition 
deteriorated and he couldnt afford the recommended treatment.
Mr K complained to us. In summary he says Red Sands should never have declined the 
claims and should have assessed the additional information and changed its decision much 
sooner. He believes strongly that Red Sands actions led to the unnecessary death of his cat 
and he wants compensation for his distress.
Our investigator said Red Sands hadnt been fair in applying the 365 days cover exclusion 
so it should pay compensation. But he thought Red Sands responded to Mr Ks complaint in 
a reasonable timescale as it was unaware of the severity of the cats declining health. He 
recommended Red Sands pay £300 compensation for Mr K distress and inconvenience it 
caused.
Red Sands accepted the compensation recommendation. Mr K doesnt accept and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. He said Red Sands should have known the seriousness of his cats 
condition from the pre-authorisation claim treatment. He also believes Red Sands was 
deliberately not applying the 365 days exclusion cover in line with our usual fair and 
reasonable approach so it could avoid paying the claims. He thinks Red Sands frequently 
doesnt apply our approach to that exclusion on consumers claim. He asked for much higher 
exemplary and punitive compensation against Red Sands and for us to refer it to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to investigate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen all the detailed information Mr Ks provided and have taken it into account in 
making my decision. Im going to focus on the main points as to why I made my decision, so 
I wont be responding to all the points hes raised.
I partly uphold this complaint. I dont think Red Sands fairly and reasonably applied the 
365 days cover exclusion to decline the claims. But I dont think Red Sands unreasonably 
delayed in telling Mr K about its change of decision. I think the £300 compensation for Mr Ks 
distress and inconvenience which Red Sands has now offered is a reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The claims
The policy is clear that its time limited cover and that the policy covers vet treatment for 
365 days after the condition is first noted by Mr K or his vet.
Mr Ks cats vet notes of January 2017 says: 
O. called to make an appointment for tomorrow afternoon as (cats name) is not 
himself and is urinating around the house. Advised to monitor that (cats name) is still 
passing urine and call if anything changes before their appointment
The vet notes of October 2017 say:
using cont food for cats with urinary tract probs, had cystitis before.
Ive seen what Mr K says about the other potential causes of urination. But I think 
Red Sands can reasonably believe vet notes to be accurate unless the vet confirms 
otherwise or there is very strong evidence to show the vet notes are incorrect. On the basis 
of the vet notes Red Sands could reasonably believe that Mr Ks cat had urinary 
problems/cystitis in 2017 or before.
Ive seen the general medical evidence that Mr K has provided about related conditions. But 
Red Sands consultant vets evidence is that there is a causal link between cystitis and a 
blocked balder, which Red Sands could reasonably rely on. Given the policy definition of 
condition on a strict interpretation of the policy exclusion Red Sands could decline the 
claims on the basis that the 365 days cover for the condition had passed by the time of Mr K 
claimed for treatment in 2020.
Even if there wasnt a causal link between cystitis and a blocked balder, on the basis that Red Sands reasonably believed from the vet notes the cat had urinary problems/cystitis it 
added a policy exclusion for claims with respect to the urinary system with effect from 
29 January 2018. That was in line with its underwriting guidance and on the evidence 
Red Sands initially had it could have tried to use that exclusion to decline the claims.
On a strict interpretation of the policy terms Red Sands could apply the 365 days cover 
exclusion to decline Mr Ks claims. However, I can step outside the strict interpretation to 
consider what is fair. On a fair and reasonable basis we generally say its fair for an insurer 
to start the 365 days time limited cover from when the consumer could have made a claim 
on their policy. This is usually when a vet recommends some sort of investigation or 
treatment for clinical signs shown by the pet. 
After Red Sands declined the claims Mr K provided further information about the 
circumstances of the 2017 vet notes and invoices to show his cat hadnt been treated for any 
urinary problem. Theres nothing in the vet notes from 2017 to suggest the vet 
recommended Mr Ks cat be treated or tested for urinary problems.
So I dont think Red Sands fairly and reasonably applied the 365 days cover exclusion to 
Mr Ks 2020 claims. 
Red Sands letter of 19 June 2020 notes that Mr Ks cat hadnt had any previous treatment 
for urinary problems. It also accepted Mr Ks explanation about why the 2017 vet notes didnt 
show the true situation, without further input from the vet, which was reasonable of 
Red Sands..
Did Red Sands unreasonably delay in changing its decision
The claims were submitted on 2 June and declined on 3 June 2020. Mr K provided further 
information on 3 and 4 June and complained on 4 June. Red Sands change of decision was 
on 19 June. Unfortunately that was too late as Mr Ks cat had already been put to sleep. 
That must have been very difficult for Mr K. But I dont think Red Sands unreasonably 
delayed in changing decision.
Our investigator explained, for context, that once a consumer has complained the relevant 
rules means a business has eight weeks to issue a final response letter before a consumer 
can refer to us. Red Sands reviewed the evidence and gave its decision much quicker than 
eight weeks.
Mr Ks vet pre-authorisation claim was for a treatment of a serious condition. I take Mr Ks 
point that the pre-authorisation claim for a blocked bladder should have alerted Red Sands 
that his cat had a potentially life threatening condition. Mr K says he hadnt understood his 
pets decline would be so rapid and the onus shouldnt be on him to have told Red Sands 
about his cats deteriorating health when it should have known how the condition would  
progress.
But the last vet notes Red Sands has are dated 2 June when catheterisation and further 
tests were being advised by the vet. Ive no evidence that Red Sands was updated about 
Mr Ks cats condition. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say Red Sands should 
have known Mr Ks cats condition had deteriorated to the extent that he needed to be put to 
sleep as Mr K hadnt been able to pay for treatment.Compensation and other matters 
Mr K has told us the impact of his cats death on him, which Im sorry to hear. I understand 
its very distressing when a loved pet who is a member of the family passes away.
Red Sands unfairly initially used the 365 days cover exclusion. Mr K says it deliberately mis-
used the exclusion, knowing from past decisions that the exclusion shouldnt have been 
relied on, but Ive seen no evidence to show this. We do discuss issues with insurers if there 
is evidence of recurring themes and can refer issues to the regulator, the FCA, where 
appropriate. But for the purposes of this decision Im only considering the circumstances of 
this particular complaint and Ive seen no evidence of deliberate mis-use of the exclusion.
We dont award compensation on an exemplary or punitive basis. Matters I consider when 
making an award for compensation for distress and inconvenience include what the 
business did unfairly, what it did to try to put that right as well as the impact on the 
consumer. Taking into account what Ive said above I think the £300 compensation 
Red Sands has now offered is a reasonable amount.
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay Mr K £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
to pay Mr K £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience, as its now offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman