DRN-3292160
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as R, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc unfairly 
transferred it to its Global Restructuring Group (GRG) and then mistreated them. The 
partners also complain about the banks poor communication, particularly in relation to the 
partnerships eligibility for the banks Interest Rate Hedging Products (IRHP) review 
scheme. 
This complaint has been referred to us by the partners legal representative. For ease of 
reading, I'll refer to all actions and comments of the representative as being those of R.  
What happened
R was formed to invest in property. In 2004, the partnership took out a short term loan for 
£470,000 to refinance the purchase of a residential property, which Ill call A. It also 
borrowed £990,000 over 15 years to buy a commercial property, which Ill call B. 
In 2005, RBS sold the partnership an interest rate swap with a notional amount of £1.5m and 
a ten year term. 
In 2006, both loans were converted to interest-only short term loans. The loans were 
renewed in 2007 and 2008. 
By 2009, the bank was no longer willing to continue renewing the loans on the same basis. 
RBS transferred the borrowing, together with some linked connections, to a Specialised 
Relationship Manager (RM). In January 2010, the bank transferred R again, this time to 
GRG. 
Between 2010 and 2013, the loans werent renewed but the partnership continued to service 
interest. The partners and GRG RMs were in regular touch about restructuring/repayment 
proposals. 
In 2011, the partners began legal proceedings against the bank for mis-sale of the swap. 
In April 2012, R sold one of the flats in A, with the proceeds used to reduce the banks debt.  
In June 2012, it was announced that RBS had agreed with the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA  now Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) that it would review its sales of swaps to 
small businesses. 
In December 2012, the partners legal claim was dismissed in the High Court. 
In July 2013, the partners sold B. They used part of the proceeds to pay the break costs to 
end the swap. 
In 2014, the bank completed its review of the partners swap under its IRHP review scheme. 
It offered redress of around £302,000 on the basis that R would have taken an alternative 
swap, for a shorter term, instead. The partners accepted this compensation. 
The partnership went on to make a consequential loss claim under the IRHP review. The 
claim included the losses on the properties sold. In 2016, the bank only agreed to pay a 
small amount of this claim and the partners referred it to our service to review. 
In Jun 2019, an ombudsman issued a decision on the swap consequential loss claim. He 
didnt uphold it, principally because he wasnt persuaded that the losses claimed stemmed 
from the mis-sold swap. 
In the meantime, in 2017, the partners made a complaint to the banks voluntary GRG 
complaint scheme. The bank upheld one part of the complaint, regarding communication. It 
acknowledged this had been poor and offered compensation of £5,000. The partners didnt 
accept this and appealed to the Independent Third Party, which didnt alter the banks 
outcome. They then referred their GRG complaint to our service, making the following 
points:
 The bank shouldnt have transferred the partnership to GRG
 The bank pressured the partnership into selling properties at low values
 The bank failed to apply good turnaround practices in its treatment of the partnership
 The bank failed to tell the partners that they were included in the IRHP review, a 
review which brought with it an undertaking not to foreclose or adversely vary lending 
facilities 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 August 2021. My findings on jurisdiction were accepted 
by both parties so I wont repeat them here. On the merits of the complaint, I made the 
following provisional findings:
I thought the bank was entitled to transfer the partnership to GRG, even if this 
decision was influenced by a fundamental change in attitude on the part of the 
bank.
I was minded to think the banks offer of £5,000 for its poor communication was fair.
I thought there was evidence that the bank had put forward restructuring proposals 
and tried to find a mutually acceptable way forward. 
There was nothing in writing that I thought constituted bullying or unfair pressure.
I thought the bank showed forbearance over the three years following the transfer to 
GRG. The bank never made formal demand. 
The partners proposed the sale of B. I hadnt seen an evidence that it was other than 
their own idea and theyd reached the conclusion it was the best way forward.
On the subject of the communication about the IRHP review, I said there was no 
dispute that the partners knew of the reviews existence, and of the accompanying 
undertaking not to foreclose or adversely vary lending facilities  but that didnt 
mean that they knew that their swap was definitely in scope. 
I thought the partners didnt know it was in scope as at 4 July 2013, because one of 
them wrote to the bank asking about it on that date. 
I provisionally found that it was the banks standard practice to send out letters 
informing customers that their swaps were in scope. It had clearly intended to do so 
in Rs case, but had misaddressed the letter. 
Even if R had been told their swap was in scope, there was a separate stage of the 
IRHP review, which was the sophistication test. I thought the evidence showed the 
bank carried this out in August 2013, deeming the partners unsophisticated.
My provisional conclusion was that, if the bank had communicated fairly about the 
swap, the partners would have known there was a pending sophistication test 
stage. They expected to fail this stage, given the outcome of their court case. So I 
was minded to think they wouldnt have delayed the property sale on this account. The evidence also indicates that the partners were under financial strain by 2013. 
The undertaking that went with the IRHP review wouldnt have removed any of this 
financial pressure. I provisionally found that a large part of their motivation for the 
sale of B was not the fear of foreclosure but ongoing financial hardship. 
All the partners communications with the bank around this time suggest that they 
were keen to proceed with the sale, and indeed, frustrated with the bank for being 
slow to respond. 
Finally, I said that, although the partnership asked the question about the swaps 
review in June, and again the day before the sale, there was no particular urgency in 
the tone of their enquiry. I thought the partners would have pursued an answer far 
more persistently if they were likely to choose to sell or not depending on what they 
were told. 
For all the reasons above, I thought that, by 2013, the partners had decided that the 
best way forward for them was the sale of their principal asset, B. And I thought they 
would have chosen this course of action even if the bank had informed them that 
their swap would be reviewed.
The bank accepted my provisional decision. R didnt. The partners made the following 
points, in summary:
The ombudsman who made the previous swaps decision said that the property sales 
were made under pressure. I hadnt taken this into account and hadnt explained 
why Id reached a fundamentally different conclusion on the same evidence.  
They were prepared to accept the banks offer of £5,000 for poor communication. 
Given that their losses didnt directly flow from the transfer to GRG, they were 
prepared to accept my findings about the transfer.
They didnt agree that the sale of B was a strategy theyd suggested themselves, 
absent of any pressure by the bank, and were entirely happy with.
My conclusion that, if the next communication following the January 2013 meeting 
was about the sale of B, then this meant that the partners had voluntarily agreed to 
the sale, was incorrect.
It wasnt factually correct to say that they were reassured that the bank wouldnt pull 
the rug from under them. In fact, the banks record of the 11 January 2013 meeting 
said (about the pull the rug comment) this is not accurate and that the RM had 
confirmed this in a telephone conversation with one of the partners. This showed that 
the bank refused to give any assurances. 
They were under additional pressure because of the existence of cross-default 
clauses between their swap and other swaps with other connected parties. In 
particular, the partners were very concerned for the position of a retired couple, with 
whom they had another partnership with a linked swap.
There was concern throughout the wider group of partnerships that Rs relationship 
with RBS was extremely precarious following the court case. The fear was that, 
unless action against them was avoided, then the whole group could face 
enforcement action.  
The partnership was aware of the swaps review and the undertaking not to foreclose 
that went with it. But the partners thought that the bank wouldnt allow them to 
participate, because of their previous litigation.
If they had known their swap was in scope for the IRHP review, they would have 
assumed they would pass the sophistication test, because other businesses with 
which they were involved had already been accepted as unsophisticated. 
R first received confirmation it was in the review on 1 October 2013.
It would have been easy for the bank to communicate clearly and fairly about the 
swap. The meeting on 11 January 2013 would have provided one opportunity for this, 
but instead, the bank added to the partners concerns.The email dated 19 June 2013 didnt show R would have gone ahead with the sale of 
B anyway. It was written in the context of the partners understanding that they 
wouldnt be included in the swaps review.
There is a lengthy run-up to the sale of a large commercial property and the partners 
didnt agree that they ought to have been persistently asking if they were included in 
the IRHP review during this process. 
The bank ought to be held responsible for its failure to communicate, rather than able 
to escape liability by expecting their customers to chase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the partners, but I havent been persuaded to 
change my provisional view. Ill explain why below. 
R has argued that I came to a fundamentally different conclusion from my ombudsman 
colleague, who issued the earlier swaps decision. But I dont consider that my conclusions 
were fundamentally different. I think its very clear that the bank wanted the debt repaid. 
After all, it had stopped renewing its lending several years before. I dont doubt that RBS 
was regularly stating its desire for repayment during the years between 2010 and 2013. I 
think its also likely that it had set out the consequences of not paying, such as enforcement 
action. I think this is the kind of pressure to which my colleague was referring  and I dont 
think it was unreasonable in the circumstances here. 
However, I havent been persuaded that there was undue pressure. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the bank was entitled to ask for its money back, in the 
absence of a contractual commitment to lend. And I think it was reasonable for it to express 
its views clearly and unequivocally on that subject. There were limited options to achieve 
repayment other than property sales. But the bank did continue to provide interest-only 
lending for some time while various sale options were explored. I havent found any 
evidence that the bank behaved unprofessionally whilst this was happening. 
I acknowledge the partners comments about the additional pressure they felt due to their 
connected borrowing arrangement with an elderly couple. I understand that they were 
worried that the cross-default clauses in the swap agreements would drag the other couple 
down with them if the bank foreclosed. I can see that this may have increased the pressure 
they put on themselves, but I havent seen that the bank was using it to put pressure on 
them (indeed, the bank may have known that there was ring-fencing in place, although the 
partners werent sure of this at the time). I dont think the cross-default clauses affect my 
decision about either the banks treatment of the partners or its communication failures.
I can see from the tone of one of the partners emails, that he was worried about what action 
the bank would take following the failure of the partnerships court case. The phrase pull the 
rug from under them was first used in one of his emails. But I havent seen any evidence of 
any specific action on the part of the bank that prompted this. It was R who was asking the 
bank about their stance post-court case, not the bank demanding or even asking for the 
partnerships repayment proposals. R's pull the rug email was followed by the 11 January 2013 meeting. I have seen two sets 
of redacted notes of this meeting from the bank and it is difficult to draw clear conclusions 
from these. The partners have argued that the meeting did nothing but put more pressure on 
them  the bank refused to confirm it wouldnt pull the rug and did confirm the existence of 
the cross-default clauses. But Im not convinced the banks notes support this interpretation.  
Part of one of the notes says:
[] noted in her telephone call with [a partner] this week [a partner] had subsequently 
following this by email to note that the bank had agreed not to pull the rug from under 
them. [The RM] noted that this was not accurate
I am invited to conclude from this that the bank was contradicting Rs interpretation of the 
earlier conversation and saying, in effect, that it might very well pull the rug from under them. 
I accept that this is one possible interpretation but Im not persuaded that its the only or 
most obvious one. There is also the possibility that the bank meant that it wasnt accurate 
that it might pull the rug from under them  in other words, exactly the opposite. There are 
other parts of the meeting notes that, in my view, support this view:
[A partner] We were under the impression that in this meeting the bank would say 
what the options were for them, not the other way round.
[A partner] noted that if the bank wanted to sell, then they would happily sell it. One 
of the GRG RMs is said to have replied the Bank wont tell you to sell its property. The 
bank is effectively sitting on its hands. And another GRG RM noted because of the 
FSA review, then the bank cant say to you that you have to sell the property, but if you 
come to the bank and say you want to sell then we can discuss that with you.  
There is also another heavily redacted document on file, which says Further to our 
telephone conversation (with one of the partners), you advised that you wished to know the 
banks stance as given the outcome of the court case, you were concerned the bank was 
going to pull the rug from under you (your words that were used) I did confirm that this was 
not the case
It would be more helpful if these documents were clearer and unambiguous. But in my view, 
the weight of evidence doesnt suggest a meeting where the bank was exerting pressure and 
demanding property sales, but more one where it was keen to agree a consensual way 
forward. Given this context, I dont think the bank was threatening to pull the rug  and 
these words come only from the partners, not from RBS. I accept that these records are only 
the banks version of events. But I see no reason to doubt that they were made at the time 
and reflect the banks position. 
Finally on this point, in an email of 19 June 2013, one of the partners wrote at our meeting 
with you in [] earlier this year, you said you would support us through this testing 
period. I think this confirms that the bank had said it wouldnt pull the rug in January  
and importantly, it also shows that R had understood this to be the case. 
My conclusion remains that, despite the partners concerns after the court case, there is no 
evidence of any imminent intention to foreclose on the part of the bank. Neither do I think the 
bank did anything to give the impression it was about to take action. I think the bank 
remained keen to see the lending repaid, but it was waiting for R to come up with a plan. As I 
said in my provisional decision, after the January meeting, the next communication appears 
to have been the partners February email confirming theyd found a buyer for B. In saying this, Im not claiming this was an easy or happy decision for the partners to make. 
And Im not disputing that the cross-default clauses and the partners sense of responsibility 
to the retired couple may have been a factor. I dont doubt that they would rather have held 
on to their portfolio until the property market improved. But I dont think the bank bullied or 
forced them into it. I think they reached their own conclusion that this was the best way out 
of an unwelcome and stressful situation that had persisted by that time for some years. 
In their email of 19 June, from which I have already quoted, the partners said we do feel 
that RBS are putting us under undue stress by unnecessarily hindering the sale process. I 
accept that this comment was made towards the end of a length sale process, in which there 
had been many exchanges with the bank about what was and wasnt acceptable. But I still 
think it shows that the partners had made up their mind to go ahead with the sale and were 
frustrated by what they saw as the bank putting this strategy at risk by delaying.
In my provisional decision, I said that the partners thought they werent going to be in the 
IRHP review because they would be classed as sophisticated, as the court had done. The 
partners have explained that this wasnt the case. They didnt think theyd be classed as 
sophisticated  or they thought they could challenge it if they were - because theyd already 
been told that a connected partnership wasnt sophisticated. Rather, they thought that Rs 
swap wouldnt be included in the review at all, because of res judicata, that is, the legal 
principle that if something has already been the subject of litigation, it cant be re-litigated. 
One of the points I made in my provisional decision was that, as the partners would have 
expected to fail the sophistication test as they had in court, they wouldnt have delayed the 
property sale on this account. I accept that this part of my argument falls away if, as has 
been argued, this test wasnt in fact the problem. 
I think Rs emails of June and early July 2013 enquiring about the IRHP review show that R 
knew there was a chance it would be included. The wording just as a point of note, neither 
[the other partner] nor I have received a letter telling us we are in the FCA review. Please 
could we be provided with notification suggests to me that the partner thought it was more 
likely than not that Rs swap would be included. 
I still consider that the bank should have communicated more clearly about the IRHP review. 
However, on further examination of the evidence, it did heavily imply that it had put any 
enforcement action on hold. The extracts from the meeting notes Ive quoted above indicate 
this, as does the following wording, which was from the sale agreement for B signed by the 
partners on 5th July 2013, a copy of which I have sent to R: 
As you aware, the bank has agreed with the FCA to conduct a review of interest rate 
hedging products. We have agreed with the FCA, that for the period of the review, we 
will not foreclose on or adversely vary lending facilities without giving prior notice to the 
customer and obtaining their prior consent unless exceptional circumstances arise. 
It does not preclude us from continuing our discussions or progressing strategy with 
you, so long as it continues to be with your consent.
Having now seen the full signed copy of this letter, this wording is prominent, as it forms the 
first two paragraphs. Whilst it doesnt state plainly that Rs swap was definitely in the review - 
and I note Rs comments that this was merely standard wording - it would be somewhat 
perverse of the bank to mention the moratorium here at all if it didnt apply to them. The 
second paragraph in my view ties it in to precisely the situation they were in. I agree that the bank should be responsible for the consequences of its errors, rather than 
able to avoid liability by expecting their customers to chase. But I also expect complainants 
to mitigate the impact of errors where they can. For this reason, I think that, if the above text 
wasnt enough to confirm to R that the bank wasnt about to take enforcement action, it 
should at least have prompted some further questions from the partners about exactly what 
it meant. And I think the bank would have answered those questions fairly, as Ive seen no 
evidence of any deliberate intent to mislead. My reading of this is that, as in the January 
2013 meeting, the bank was again saying that it was up to the partners whether they wanted 
to proceed with the property sale or not. 
In summary, having looked very carefully at the contemporaneous evidence, I have reached 
the conclusion that the bank did enough to show that it wasnt about to pull the rug from 
under the partnership and that it was up to the partners to decide whether to go ahead with 
the property sale. I therefore dont agree that its communication failure had the 
consequences the partners have argued. And I dont think further compensation is 
warranted.
Putting things right
I havent been persuaded that the banks poor communication led to the sale of B at a 
disadvantageous price. So Im not going to award any compensation for losses. However, I 
do agree that the banks poor communication was a cause of inconvenience to the 
partnership. I think the banks offer of £5,000 in compensation for this is fair.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay R £5,000 in 
compensation for its poor communication.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman