DRN-2837293
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has restricted his ability to make payments onto 
an investment and peer-to-peer lending platform. 
What happened
Mr B told us that he tried to make three card payments from his Barclays account, for 
£1,440, £900 and £500. He wanted to pay this money onto his account with an investment 
and peer-to-peer lending platform. 
Mr B told us that these payments were declined, and no one rang him to check if they were 
genuine. Mr B said that mean he lost out on an investment opportunity. He tried to ring 
Barclays, but the ordinary banking number had a wait time of an hour, and he gave up on 
the Premier Banking number when his call was still unanswered after half an hour.
Mr B said that this had happened before, with attempted payments to the same platform. He 
thought that Barclays may have put some extra security, like a payment limit, onto his 
account without telling him. He wanted Barclays to pay him the profit he said he wouldve 
made on his proposed investment.
Barclays said that Mr B had previously complained about payments to the same business 
being blocked, and it had paid him then as a gesture of goodwill. But it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong in blocking this payment, pending further checks. Barclays said it 
wouldnt pay Mr B this time. 
Barclays said it could see that Mr B had tried to make two payments, for £1,440 and then 
£900, as well as a successful payment for £100. It said that the two failed payments were 
picked up for extra security checks, and then ultimately unsuccessful. 
Barclays said it wasnt aiming to withhold Mr Bs money. It just tried to stop as much fraud as 
it could, whilst impacting as little as possible on its customers banking. It said sometimes it 
will need to speak to the customer when a payment has been declined, but not always. 
Barclays was sorry for the long wait times to speak to someone on the phone, but that was a 
result of the pandemic, with more people trying to get in touch, and fewer staff available to 
answer the phones.
Mr B said that Barclays had admitted in February 2020 that blocking a payment to the same 
business was a mistake, and it had paid him £100 for that. He said that Barclays had agreed 
that payments to this business were safe, and wouldnt be blocked again. Mr B thought this 
was key to resolving his current complaint, and meant Barclays must have made a mistake.
Barclays said that when it paid Mr B in February, that was because hed had a poor 
customer experience in trying to lodge his complaint, not because it had blocked his 
payment. It said it had noted his account then to say that the payment was genuine, which 
would mean payments to this business would be less likely to be blocked in future, but it 
couldnt guarantee that this wouldnt happen again.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that when Mr B asks 
Barclays to transfer his money out of the account, the bank has a duty to take care when 
making the payment he asks for. So it wont make the payment if it has reasonable grounds 
for thinking the payment might be part of fraud or a scam. But in this case, the bank didnt 
definitely suspect fraud. What had happened was just a trigger to make further checks. Our 
investigator said that was what she would expect a responsible bank to do, and she didnt 
think it was unreasonable. 
Our investigator said that Barclays had apologised for the long wait to talk to someone, and 
our investigator thought that, with so many more people choosing to call rather than go into a 
branch, Barclays couldnt have done anything differently. 
Barclays then got in touch to say that our investigator hadnt told Mr B that it had tried to 
contact him after he attempted this payment in August. It showed evidence of a text 
message sent to Mr B, so that he could approve the payment, and that calls were made 
when he didnt respond to the text message. Our investigator passed this message on to Mr 
B, with her apologies for not setting this out in her view.
Mr B said that our investigator hadnt taken account of the previous payment in February 
2020, where Barclays had admitted an error and recorded an authorisation for all future 
payments to this business. He wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this case as our investigator. 
Mr Bs large card payments werent successful. He says he was expecting a call about the 
payments. But Barclays has shown us that he was sent a text message, asking him to reply 
to confirm the payment was made by him. And he didnt reply to that text message. So the 
payment wasnt cleared. 
I think its reasonable for Barclays to check, when someone makes a large transaction, that 
its really being made by them. I dont think that its different when someones made that 
payment a number of times before. And the system Barclays uses ought to allow Mr B to 
verify his payment easily. I dont know why that hasnt worked in this instance, but I havent 
seen anything to suggest that this was Barclays fault.
Mr B said that these payments had been pre-authorised, so they should never be blocked. 
But that doesnt fit with what I can see on Barclays records. I can see that Mr B complained 
about a blocked payment in 2015, and he was paid £240 then. Barclays wrote to him and 
said it was paying this despite there being no bank error and that it could not give you any 
guarantee that this would not happen to you again. 
Mr B then complained again in February 2020. The notes Barclays took at the time say he 
told Barclays hed previously had a letter to say that this business had been marked as safe, 
and wouldnt be picked up in future. I havent been able to see any letter confirming this. 
I can see that Barclays checked in February that it had sent Mr B a text message to confirm 
this transaction was made by him, and the transaction was cancelled when he didnt reply. Barclays then updated his records, once it knew that this transaction was made by him. The 
notes Barclays made say it advised Mr B at the time that this would make future referrals 
less likely, but this would not completely stop payments being picked up in future. Those 
notes also say that a compensation payment was made to Mr B for poor customer service 
then, as hed experienced problems logging his complaint. 
So I havent been able to see that Barclays has previously promised Mr B that the 
transactions he wants to make to this business will never be picked up for additional security 
checks. And I think Barclays acted reasonably by making further checks on his August 2020 
payments.
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman