DRN-2032350
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a travel insurance policy online on 4 November 2019 to cover a 
cruise holiday theyd planned later that month. During the policy sale, Mr C declared that he 
suffered from giant cell arteritis (GCA). Great Lakes agreed to cover this condition.
Unfortunately, Mr C was admitted into hospital on 15 November 2019, suffering from severe 
abdominal pain. Mr and Mrs C were advised to cancel the trip and so they made a claim on 
their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It said Mr C had seen his GP on 28 October 
2019, a few days before he took out the policy, suffering from abdominal pain and that hed 
spoken to his consultant about it. The GP thought the pain could be a side effect of the 
medication he took for GCA. So Great Lakes said Mr C shouldve called up to tell it that he 
was under investigation for undiagnosed symptoms. If hed done so, Great Lakes said it 
would never have offered him any insurance cover for anything related to the undiagnosed 
symptom. It offered to arrange a refund of the premium Mr C had paid.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with Great Lakes decision. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She thought theyd 
taken care to answer the questions Great Lakes had asked them about their health during 
the sale of the policy. Mr C had declared GCA and answered the questions hed been asked 
about it accurately. So she didnt think Mr C had misrepresented his condition. She 
recommended that Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim, together with £100 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said if a policyholder had any undiagnosed health problems, the 
sales process directed them to call medical screening. If Mr C had called up, hed have been 
told there was no cover at all for his pre-existing medical conditions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say the insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy; the available medical evidence and the sales 
documents to see if I think Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs C reasonably.
When Mr and Mrs C took out the policy online, they were asked information about 
themselves, their trip and their medical conditions. Great Lakes used this information to 
decide whether or not to insure Mr and Mrs C and if so, on what terms.
Both sides acknowledge that Mr C saw his GP on 28 October 2019, a few days before he 
took out the policy. Both sides also agree that Mr C was suffering from abdominal pain at 
this point, which seems to have been related to his treatment for GCA, although Mr C says 
the main purpose of the appointment was to request sleeping tablets. 
Great Lakes says that the information Mr C saw during the medical screening shouldve 
prompted him to call up to declare the fact that he had undiagnosed symptoms related to 
GCA and that he was under referral. This means the principles set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its 
fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked at the 
questions Mr C was asked about his GCA during medical screening. Ive set out those 
questions and the answers he gave.
Have you had any unplanned hospital admissions within the last 12 months for this 
condition? Mr C answered no.
Have you seen a hospital doctor about this condition in the last 12 months? Mr C answered 
yes.
Ive looked closely at the available medical evidence. Theres nothing to suggest Mr C was 
admitted to hospital for anything related to GCA (or his abdominal pain) before 15 November 
2019. This was after hed taken out the policy. So Im satisfied Mr C answered this question 
correctly.
Mr C is also under the care of a consultant rheumatologist for GCA. He accurately declared 
that hed seen a hospital doctor. So again, Im persuaded he answered this question 
accurately.
The evidence from both Mr Cs and consultant links Mr Cs pain to the medication he took for 
GCA. The GP said: consultant thinks that treatment for GCA is a potential cause for the 
abdo pain. The GPs appointment notes state: has been getting severe stomach pains 
since starting methotrexatehas been in contact with rheumatology awaiting call back from 
them. The consultant stated: Mr C has GCA which is being treated by steroids. 
Unfortunately he has developed an abdominal problem through treatment for this condition
In my view, the available medical evidence suggests that the treating doctors felt Mr Cs 
abdominal pain was directly linked to the treatment he was receiving for GCA and that it was 
going to be reviewed by Mr Cs treating consultant. So I think it was fair for Mr C to conclude 
that the pain was part and parcel of the condition hed declared and that it didnt need to be 
declared separately.And Mr C wasnt asked about any medications he took, what symptoms (if any) he 
experienced due to GCA or whether he was waiting for any referrals or follow-ups. If Great 
Lakes wanted to know this information and it was directly relevant to its underwriting 
decision, it was open to it to ask further questions about GCA during the medical screening. 
It didnt do so.
So based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Mr C made a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. I think he answered Great Lakes questions to the best of his knowledge and 
belief. Great Lakes agreed to cover Mr Cs GCA and so I think it must now deal with a claim 
which seemed to arise from a side effect of that condition.
I dont doubt that the rejection of the claim caused Mr and Mrs C some trouble and upset. 
Theyve explained that theyd booked their trip to help Mrs C cope with a difficult period. I 
think Great Lakes had enough evidence some months ago to settle this claim. And I think it 
turned it down reasonably. I think the claims process has unnecessarily added to Mr and Mrs 
Cs distress and inconvenience. So I agree with the investigator that an award of £100 to 
compensate Mr and Mrs C for their trouble and upset is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. To any settlement paid, it must add interest at an annual 
rate of 8% simple.
I also direct Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman