DRN-2064619
The complaint
Mr L and Ms Z are complaining that Nationwide Building Society declined a standing order 
payment from their joint account.
What happened
Mr L and Ms Z had a regular standing order set up to transfer a sum of money each month 
from their Nationwide account to another of their accounts. They also had standing orders 
set up with a different bank to transfer the same sum of money into their Nationwide account 
on the same day. 
Mr L and Ms Z had had these arrangements in place for some time with no issues. But in 
August 2019, the standing order to transfer money out of the account was declined, and 
Nationwide charged Mr L and Ms Z a fee of £5.
Mr L complained to Nationwide. He said he didnt think the standing order should have been 
declined and he didnt think Nationwide should have charged him. He was upset that the 
automated process which had worked for many months had failed. He said he wanted the 
charge refunded and any markers removed from his credit file.
Nationwide said theyd correctly declined the standing order. They said theyd made two 
attempts to make the standing order  in the morning and then again at 2.30pm. Both times, 
there hadnt been enough money in the account to make the transfer. Nationwide said the 
money from Mr L and Ms Zs other accounts arrived at 4pm  after the second attempt. They 
said theres a cut-off time of 2.30pm for funds to arrive in time for standing orders to be paid. 
And Nationwide said theyd sent him text messages to warn him that this might be a 
problem.
Nationwide refunded the £5 charge as a gesture of goodwill. But they said they were unable 
to guarantee whether it would impact Mr L and Ms Zs credit scores. 
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He was upset that the standing order didnt go 
through. He said the text messages he received werent clear  and that when hed received 
similar messages before, everything had been fine  so hed stopped paying attention to 
them. He acknowledged that Nationwide had refunded the fee but said he was very 
concerned about the possible impact on his credit file. He thought this might have a 
significant impact on his and his wifes personal finances and on their new business and he 
was upset that Nationwide didnt fully address these concerns.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said Nationwide had made it clear that 
the money needed to be in Mr L and Ms Zs account by 2.30pm for the standing order to be 
paid. And he said the money had arrived at 4pm so Nationwide had done nothing wrong in 
declining the standing order. He said he couldnt see that Mr L had raised his concerns 
about the credit report in any detail with Nationwide  so he thought Nationwides response 
on this point had been sufficient.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. He commented that he thought Nationwides text 
messages were in breach of the Retail Banking Market Investigation Order 2017 (RBMIO). 
And he said he definitely raised his concerns about the credit report when he talked to 
Nationwide on the phone about his complaint. Because Mr L and our investigator were 
unable to reach a resolution, the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr L and Ms Zs complaint. Ill explain why.
The declined standing order
Nationwide have refunded the £5 charge as a goodwill gesture. So Mr L and Dr Z-L havent 
suffered any financial loss as a result of the failed standing order. So, regardless of 
Nationwides actions, theres no financial loss to compensate.
Mr Ls also said he and his wife are concerned that the automated system theyve previously 
relied on has failed them. So Ive considered what happened in more detail.
The terms and conditions of the account are clear that the account holder needs to make 
sure there is enough money in the account for a payment to be made. Although the terms 
and conditions dont specify what time the money needs to arrive by, the text message sent 
on the morning of the transfer was clear: Please pay in enough cleared funds by 2.30pm so 
your payments can be sent
Mr L told us that thered been a change in circumstances at the bank that was sending the 
money to the joint account which meant the money was sent much later than usual. And I 
can see that meant that the money needed to pay the standing order didnt arrive until 4pm 
that day. So I cant say Nationwide acted unfairly when they declined to pay the standing 
order. And I dont think its Nationwides fault that Mr L and Ms Zs system of automated 
transfers failed them  it was because of the change in circumstances at the sending bank.
I appreciate Mr Ls also expressed concerns about Nationwides compliance with the 
RBMIO. I have reviewed the RBMIO but Ive concluded its not material to this case. As Ive 
explained above, Mr L and his wife have suffered no financial loss, and Im satisfied 
Nationwide arent responsible for the breakdown in Mr L and Ms Zs system of automated 
transfers. My role is to decide individual disputes rather than to consider more general 
compliance issues. If hes still concerned about this issue, Mr L could take it up with the 
Competition & Markets Authority. 
Concerns about credit reports
Nationwide have confirmed they havent placed any negative markers on Mr L or Ms Zs 
credit file, and that it would be the intended recipient of a payment that might do so. And 
Mr Ls confirmed that his credit score hasnt been affected by the incident.  
I appreciate why Mr L was concerned about his credit score. And Im aware he doesnt think 
Nationwide explained the situation when they responded to his complaint. But complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, so I cant comment on how Nationwide responded.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding Mr L and Ms Zs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman