DRN-2816961
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him a personal loan 
when they should have known that he wouldnt be able to afford the repayments. Hed like 
the interest and any charges accrued to be refunded to reduce the debt balance.
What happened
Mr M applied online for a £5,000 personal loan in January 2018. He said the purpose of the 
loan was to consolidate the existing debt he had on three separate credit cards held with 
other providers. NatWest approved the loan.
The loan repayments were £136 per month. In early 2020 Mr M began to struggle to meet 
the repayments and so he complained to NatWest in February 2020 that their decision to 
lend to him had been irresponsible.
NatWest said theyd considered his income, expenditure, banking behaviour, and credit 
score when assessing his personal loan application. Hed met the eligibility criteria at the 
time, and they didnt think the decision to lend had been inappropriate.
What NatWest told us
NatWest said that when Mr M applied for the loan it was accepted pending verification of 
income. Mr M had declared a net income of £3,000 per month and said his rent was £900 
per month.
NatWest reviewed information from HMRC which recorded Mr Ms gross income, from both 
employment and self-employment, for 2015-16 as £34,832 and for 2016-17 as £33,466. 
They also reviewed Mr Ms current account statements for October  December 2017. 
These broadly supported what Mr M had said about his income.
NatWest also reviewed statements from the three credit cards Mr M said he was intending to 
pay off with the loan. These had balances of £2,651, £1,867 and £698.
After allowing £607 for other living costs NatWest calculated that Mr M had enough available 
income to manage the new loan repayments. The application was reviewed by NatWests 
exceptions team and approved.
What Mr M told us
Mr M said that in January 2018 when he applied for the personal loan NatWest had already 
lent his small business money; theyd given the business a credit card with a £2,000 limit in 
April 2017 and a £2,500 overdraft facility in October 2017. On both occasions the 
applications for business lending were initially rejected but approved when Mr M appealed.
He said he had credit totalling around £37,000 in January 2018 including a loan of £16,000 
and car finance of £15,000, and that he was already behind on payments at that time. In 
support of his case Mr M provided a copy of his credit report from February 2019. This 
showed that in January 2018 he had:
A credit card with T with a balance of £200
A credit card with A with a balance of £2,651
A credit card with A with a balance of £1,867
A credit card with S with a balance of £172
A credit card with B with a balance of £698
A credit card with C with a balance of £638
Car finance in the region of £13,000 costing £273 per month
A current account with L with an overdraft of £338
An unsecured loan with P with an outstanding balance of £15,216 and a monthly 
payment of £247
An unsecured loan with a telecommunications provider for £1,176 with a monthly 
payment of £49
Mr M explained that his payments towards his unsecured loan with P were deducted from 
his employment income after tax; so, they wouldnt have shown on his current account 
statements.
Information received from Mr Ms car finance provider shows that he missed a payment in 
October 2017, but no adverse information was reported to credit reference agencies about 
that.
Mr M explained to us, I am in no way trying to escape my debt, I just believe I should not 
have been lent so much.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think NatWests decision to 
approve the loan had been irresponsible. She said the checks made by NatWest had been 
proportionate to the size of the loan, the information theyd considered had verified Mr Ms 
stated income, and nothing about Mr Ms credit history suggested the loan repayments 
would be unaffordable. The investigator acknowledged that Mr M used an overdraft as his 
income fluctuated, but she didnt think this was a sign he was unable to manage his debt. 
She also didnt think NatWests knowledge of Mr Ms business accounts should have led 
them to a different decision about lending to him on a personal basis.
Finally, she pointed out that Mr M had successfully maintained the loan repayments for 
almost two years. She concluded the loan had become unaffordable due to more recent 
events impacting Mr Ms financial position rather than been unaffordable from the outset.
Mr M didnt accept that outcome. He said NatWest shouldnt have lent based on his income 
from self-employment because it wasnt guaranteed and was inconsistent. He said if 
NatWest had looked at his accounts as a whole  business and personal  they would have 
seen alarm bells. Our investigator said that she wouldnt have expected NatWest to assess 
Mr Ms business accounts for a personal loan of this amount.
So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I know Mr M is likely to be disappointed, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator did, and for broadly the same 
reasons.
When lending to Mr M NatWest were required to carry out a reasonable assessment of 
whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. The relevant rules are set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and published in the Consumer Credit sourcebook 
(CONC). CONC 5.3.1 [G] (6) explained that sustainable meant the repayments could be 
made by the customer without undue difficulties. So, NatWest had to check Mr M would be 
able to make the repayments while meeting other reasonable commitments, out of income 
and savings (not further borrowing) over the life of the agreement. The term of this personal 
loan was 60 months.
CONC 5.2.3 [G] also said that affordability checks should be dependent upon and 
proportionate to factors such as the type, amount and cost credit, the customers financial 
position at the time of their application, the customers credit history, and any existing 
financial commitments. CONC 5.2.4 [G] (2) said:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of the credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates 
to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customer's financial situation.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, Ive considered 
whether NatWest carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way. Ive also thought about whether 
NatWest ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ms indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit.
NatWest have shown that they verified the income Mr M gave on his application with two 
sources of information  HMRC records and three months worth of bank statements. They 
verified his net income as £2,456 per month. In terms of outgoings, NatWest were aware 
that Mr M paid £900 for rent. They calculated £246 for monthly credit card repayments (the 
total credit card debt reporting with the credit bureau at the time of Mr Ms application was 
£4,465), they allowed £607 for living expenses. And they allowed £35 for an existing 
unsecured loan monthly repayment which was picked up through a credit bureau search. 
This left an available income of £668.
I cant see that NatWests checks specifically identified two other significant loan repayment 
commitments Mr M had at this time; a car finance payment of £273 per month and an 
employee loan payment of £247. Had NatWest picked up on these they should have 
calculated his available income as closer to £148. However, I dont think this means 
NatWests lending decision was flawed, and thats because of Mr Ms stated plan for this 
loan.
Mr M told NatWest on his application that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate most of 
his existing credit card debt. With that in mind, I think it was fair for NatWest to take into 
account that Mr M would no longer be making a payment of around £246 towards credit 
cards each month. So, even if NatWest had identified the car finance and employee loan, I 
think theyd more likely than not still have lent to Mr M. And I cant say that decision would 
have been unreasonable. Mr Ms available income, after deducting the car finance, 
employee loan, rent and living expenses, should have been almost £400, and the re-payments for the NatWest loan were £136. So, at the time it was provided, I think this loan 
was affordable.
I know that Mr M has been particularly concerned that NatWest didnt consider the debt 
commitments his small business had at the time. But, like our investigator said, I wouldnt 
have expected NatWest to assess Mr Ms business accounts for a £5,000 personal loan 
which was being applied for to refinance existing personal debt.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M has been struggling to meet his repayments for this loan. I note a 
loan deferral was granted in May 2020 and extended in August 2020, and I would remind 
NatWest that it has an ongoing obligation to exercise forbearance and give due 
consideration to Mr Ms circumstances which I believe have changed since he took out this 
loan (not least because of the Covid-19 pandemics impact on his earnings). But Ive been 
asked to look at whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably when it provided Mr M with 
this personal loan in 2018. And having considered everything, I find that even though there 
were some debt commitments NatWests checks didnt pick up on, I dont agree that 
NatWests lending decision at that time was irresponsible.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But 
I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman