DRN-2753891
The complaint
Mr T, a sole trader, complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
misled him over excess mileage charges. He would like compensation.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Mr T accepts that there is an outstanding excess mileage liability. But he says at the 
point of sale he was told not to worry about excess miles as he would be offered a 
new contract towards the end of his contract.
I appreciate its very difficult for a consumer to prove a conversation, particularly one 
that took place some years ago. But for me to say VWFS has done something wrong 
I would need to have some evidence, but I dont feel I have this. Ive seen the 
contract Mr T signed. That clearly states that excess mileage would be charged at 
the end of the contract. So, I dont think VWFS were wrong to do this. 
Mr Ts further point is that when his contract was coming to an end, he says he was 
advised the best option was for him to buy the vehicle. He says he wasnt advised 
that in doing so he would still need to pay the excess mileage that had accrued.
I have listened to the phone call between the dealer and the finance company. The 
miles on the contract and cost per mile are discussed as is the end date and the cost 
to Mr T to end the contract early. A figure of £233.54 based on a percentage of the 
amount outstanding on the contract is given. The dealer checks that that figure is the 
only amount Mr T would have to pay. But despite the contract mileage being raised 
neither side specifically notes there might be an excess mileage charge on top.  
I cant be sure what was passed onto Mr T from this phone call. He might have just 
been told that he only needed to pay £233.54. But as the finance company clarified 
the contract mileage a potential excess mileage cost should have been flagged to 
him. But even it wasnt I have seen the purchase quote which makes it clear there is 
still a liability for the excess mileage. So, I think that information was available to Mr T
As I have no evidence that VWFS has done anything wrong I dont think I can 
reasonably tell it to compensate as Mr T has requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman