DRN-3657347
The complaint
Ms S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly provided her with 
credit she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Capital One approved a credit card application for Ms S in December 2018 and they 
provided a credit limit of £1,000. In April 2019 they approved a further credit card application 
for Ms S with a limit of £200.
Ms S says Capital One were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for her.
Capital One disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card applications they 
reviewed Ms Ss credit file and found she was managing her credit commitments well. They 
said they didnt see any signs of financial difficulty and that Ms Ss declared income and their 
statistical modelling of her likely expenditure suggested she had sufficient disposable income 
to sustainably afford repayments. They thought the information suggested the lending was 
affordable for Ms S.
Our adjudicator agreed but Ms S didnt. She explained she had taken out a further credit 
card between her first and second application and that it should therefore have been clear to 
Capital One that she was struggling financially and couldnt afford the credit they were 
advancing. She asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I dont think Capital Ones checks were reasonable and proportionate when either card was 
approved.
I say that because Ms S has explained she was in a debt management plan at the time of 
her applications and I cant see from the information Capital One have provided, that they 
took that into account. I think that information should have been available in the credit file if 
their review of the credit file had been rigorous enough. The fact that Ms S was in a debt 
management plan was something that should have alerted Capital One to the possibility that 
Ms S was struggling financially, and, in those circumstances, I think they should have 
completed more detailed creditworthiness checks. 
I cant be sure exactly what Capital One would have found out if it had asked about Ms Ss 
expenditure. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Ms Ss bank statements as to what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements leading up to both lending decisions. Ahead of the December 
2018 application they show that Ms Ss income was about £2,293 and her outgoings 
including payments for food, utility bills, rent, council tax and her debt management plan, 
were about £1,954. Ms Ss disposable income was therefore about £338 and I think that was 
sufficient to afford sustainable repayments on the £1,000 credit limit even if the limit was fully 
utilised and the credit paid back over a reasonable period.
Before Ms S was approved for the second card her credit commitments had increased and 
her disposable income had reduced to about £240. Shed taken a new credit card out with a 
£500 limit but even if that card was fully utilised, and the credit paid back over a reasonable 
period, I think the relatively small amount of credit being advanced (£200) would still be 
sustainably affordable for Ms S.
Overall, Im therefore not persuaded that Capital One were irresponsible when approving the 
credit card applications.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman