DRN-3135715
The complaint
Mr M says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Cashfloat provided to Mr M in November 2020. 
The loan was for £700 to be repaid in four monthly instalments with the highest being 
£271.87. Mr M was unable to repay his loan and a balance remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Cashfloat asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr M said his monthly income was £2,750 and his monthly outgoings totalled 
£2,015. This left him with a monthly disposable income of £685 to meet his repayments of 
£271.87. 
I cant see that Cashfloats credit checks found anything untoward that should have 
prompted further questions. Mr M said he had an existing County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
against him. But I cant see that Cashfloat was made aware of this. 
Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his 
history with Cashfloat, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount 
of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr M provided or the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr M was saying. The loan 
looked affordable for him. So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I can see that Cashfloat has offered to arrange an affordable repayment plan for Mr M to 
clear the outstanding balance of his loan. I think thats a positive and sympathetic response 
to his financial difficulties. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman