DRN-4078331
The complaint
Miss G complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who declined her 
claim under her appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G bought a new fridge freezer. Following the purchase D&G sold Miss G the policy to 
protect it. During the sales call Miss G said that the call handler gave her so much 
information but as she heard that her appliance would be covered for accidental damage, it 
would be repaired or replaced. And as she was due to move and was worried about this, she 
purchased the policy. 
During the move, Miss G said that the door on the appliance dented, so she made a claim. 
D&G sent an engineer, as the replacement part had to be ordered. During the wait for the 
part, D&G informed Miss G that the claim wouldnt be covered, as the damage was classed 
as cosmetic. And this was an exclusion in her policy. 
Miss G contacted D&G and complained. She said that she had been led to believe by the 
call handler that the damage (which it classed as cosmetic) would be covered. So, D&G 
made further investigations. In its final response, it maintained its position, that the damage 
wasnt covered. It also said that it listened to the call recording and didnt find that the agent 
had mis-sold the policy. It said the agent was clear that cosmetic damage wasnt covered 
and relied on the policy exclusion to decline the claim.
Miss G was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. Although she 
agreed that cosmetic damaged wasnt covered under the policy, she said that the call 
handler had led Miss G to believe that damage from moving would be covered. And she 
thought it was reasonable that Miss G wouldve thought that the cosmetic damage caused to 
her appliance was covered. She recommended that D&G refund all the premiums of the 
policy, if Miss G wanted it to be cancelled. 
Miss G accepted the view, D&G did not. It said that the policy was clear that cosmetic 
damage wasnt covered. It refuted that the agent wasnt clear that damage like this would be 
covered. It also said that Miss G was given the policy to read and to make sure that it was 
acceptable for her needs. And if she felt it, wasnt she couldve cancelled the policy. So, it 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 3 April 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 1 
May 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Miss G, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have reviewed the policy documents as well as the sale call and information provided to me 
by both sides. The main issue of the complaint I think relates to what took place during the 
sales call and in particular how the policy was sold to Miss G. I should say at the outset that 
my role is to determine whether D&G treated Miss G fairly.
Miss G purchased the policy over the phone with D&G. During the sales call (which I have 
listened to) the sales advisor provided brief information regarding the policy and what was 
covered. Moreover, he did mention what the exclusions were on the policy. He said: 
exclusions on the policy are business use, cosmetic damage. He then went on to qualify 
this by saying: you wouldnt kick or punch (the appliance).  He further mentions that if the 
appliance has a mechanical breakdown or electrical fault, even after the warranty ends, we 
will replace that as well. He also says: any accidents or mishaps will be covered. 
The advisor then went through the cost of the premium, payment methods and informed 
Miss G that her policy details will be emailed to her and checked that he had the correct 
email address. Before briefly outlining the claims process. He also provided information 
about the 14 day cooling off period and that Miss G had the right to cancel, if she found the 
policy not sufficient for her needs. 
Miss G confirmed that the information and policy was all perfect. The call then ended. 
I have reviewed the policy documents that were emailed to Miss G and I can see that on the 
second page, under the heading: other important information about your policy, it clearly 
states that Miss G should read the policy documents to ensure that the cover met her needs: 
it is important that you review the policy terms and conditions regularly to check that you 
remain eligible and the cover meets your needs. So, this wouldve been what we call a non-
advised sale, which means that D&G would not be advising or recommending that Miss G 
buy the policy. D&G has confirmed that this is the case.
I note that during the call, Miss G didnt raise any issues that concerned her about the policy. 
Such as enquiring whether a dent on the appliance would be covered. Nevertheless, I think 
that D&G gave clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy, so that she could 
make an informed choice. I say this as the call handler highlighted the exclusions on the 
policy, what was covered, as well as indicating the obligations of D&G, once a claim was 
made. 
The policy documents also confirmed those exclusions. Looking at cosmetic damage, on 
page four (of the eight-page document) cosmetic damage is highlighted as an exclusion. 
Which is then followed in the insurance product information document (IPID) on the first 
page of that document, which clearly states that cosmetic damage is not covered. 
Although, the call handler did mention that Miss Gs appliance would be covered under 
accidental damage, the policy documents make it clear that accidental damage arises when 
the product is no longer in good working order.  I dont think the dent, which was described 
as the size of a pound coin, wouldve affected the working order of the appliance. Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Miss G will be, Im 
satisfied that D&G fairly declined her claim under the policy terms and conditions, as the 
damage wasnt covered. And I dont think D&G mis-sold the policy. Accordingly, I cant fairly 
ask D&G to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So, my final decision will be the same as my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman