DRN-2414104
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy with the way in which Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) settled a claim 
made under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
When flying abroad, in October 2019, Miss Y lost her ring. She subsequently made a claim 
on her travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV (the policy). She provided a receipt for 
the ring which had been bought in 2018, whilst in the USA, costing around $223. 
URV accepted her claim. It calculated the value of the ring to be around £160 using a 
currency converter calculator. It then deducted a £95 excess and paid Miss Y the balance. 
Miss Y didnt think that was right. She said her dad had paid for the ring and having checked 
his credit card statement, the actual price hed paid (taking into account the exchange rate at 
the time) was around £177. She also said the excess payable shouldve been £50 rather 
than £95.
She raised her concerns with URV who agreed to increase the settlement amount to reflect 
the amount actually paid by her dad. It also apologised for applying the wrong excess. It 
agreed to pay her an additional £62.10. 
Unhappy, Miss Y complained to our service. She says that unless shed queried the amount 
shed initially been paid and the excess that had been deducted, the issue wouldve gone 
unnoticed. She initially said shed like URV to pay her £100 in compensation for its error. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She felt that URVs apology was sufficient in 
the circumstances of this particular case. Miss Y disagreed. Shed like some monetary 
compensation from URV although not necessarily £100.
Miss Ys complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it accepts that it applied the 
incorrect policy excess in this particular case. This was corrected very shortly after Miss Y 
raised her concern and URV apologised for the error. I think an apology fairly reflects the 
inconvenience Miss Y experienced in having to highlight the mistake URV had made. And 
whilst I can see that she was upset by having the wrong excess applied to the settlement 
sum, the issue was sorted out within a couple of days and I still think an apology is sufficient 
in the circumstances of this case. 
Im not persuaded that URV acted unfairly or unreasonably by initially using a currency 
converter calculator to work out how much Miss Ys dad paid for her ring. And once Miss Y 
told URV of the actual amount hed paid (taking into the exchange rate from the time of 
purchase), Im satisfied that URV acted promptly to increase the settlement sum to reflect 
this  as I would reasonably expect it to do. 
I know Miss Y will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help her to know that 
her complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ys complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss Y to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman