DRN-1830562
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that he was the victim of a scam concerning his account with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC.
What happened
Mr P received a call from someone pretending to be from Barclays. He was convinced they 
were genuine as they knew information about him. They told him that someone was trying to 
access his online banking, so he should transfer his money to a safe account, and theyd set 
up a new account from there. When he went into a Barclays branch the next day to discuss 
his new account, he realised hed been scammed and that fraudsters had taken £2,417.54. 
After raising his concerns with our service, Barclays agreed to refund what was taken, 
alongside 8% simple interest for the time hes been out of pocket and £100 for the trouble 
and upset this has caused. 
Mr P didnt accept this. He thinks that Barclays didnt hold his data securely, and thats what 
led to the scam taking place. He wants £3,000 for what happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Mr P thinks that some sort of data breach must have happened within Barclays  that meant 
the fraudster knew his personal information. He says hes never provided this information to 
any other business. Barclays says theres no evidence that his account or his personal 
information was compromised before this took place.
I do understand Mr Ps suspicions here. But Im also mindful of how savvy and sophisticated 
fraudsters are. From our experience dealing with cases involving scams, there are a number 
of ways fraudsters gain information about someone  for example, malware hidden on 
someones computer or a phishing website made to look like a legitimate website.
Frustratingly for Mr P, we may never know for certain how the fraudster knew information 
about him. But civil disputes like these are only ever decided on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, whats more likely than not. And here, I dont have enough to says its more 
likely than not that Barclays are in some way responsible for what happened  when I think 
there are other possibilities that are just as likely. 
It follows that I dont think Barclays need to increase their offer to settle this complaint, 
because Im not persuaded it was in some way responsible for the scam taking place. And I 
think £100 is a fair reflection of the impact caused by Barclays not refunding the money that 
was taken from Mr P sooner. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt done so already, Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should: 
Pay Mr P £2,417.54
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the time the money left Mr Ps account to 
when its refunded (less any tax lawfully deductible)
Pay Mr P £100 for the trouble and upset caused
I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman