DRN-4011188
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) wont refund him the 
cost of a driving course he paid for using his credit card.
What happened
Mr B used his Barclays credit card to pay a driving centre (D) for a course to learn how to 
drive heavy goods vehicles (HGVs). During the practical part of the session, Mr B collided 
with a parked car and the instructor ended the course. Mr B asked D for a refund but they 
refused. So, he made a claim to Barclays under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
He said there had been a misrepresentation and a breach of contract as the service had 
been unprofessional and not as described. 
Barclays declined Mr Bs claim as it said it hadnt found any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by D. It said D had provided training in line with the terms and conditions 
of the contract Mr B had agreed to and terminated the training in accordance with those 
terms. It said it couldnt comment on the standard of the training provided as there was no 
way to validate it. And while it recognised that Mr B felt the instructor wasnt qualified to the 
required level, it was unable to prove he was under-qualified.
Mr B wasnt happy with Barclays response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think Barclays had to take any further action as he thought it had acted 
fairly and in line with the rules set out in section 75. Mr B didnt agree as he didnt think the 
service provided by D had been carried out with reasonable care and skill. 
As Mr B disagreed, this complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. I reached the 
same outcome as the investigator but for slightly expanded reasons, so I sent a provisional 
decision to Mr B and Barclays to give them an opportunity to comment. Barclays said it had 
nothing further to add, while Mr B didnt reply. So, my findings and my decision below are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear from the outset that my decision must focus solely on the way 
Barclays handled Mr Bs dispute. Barclays wasnt responsible for the driving course provided 
by D and so any potential liability it has for the agreement between Mr B and D is limited to 
the specific card protections which are available. In this case, these are the chargeback 
rules and section 75. Ill look at whether Barclays followed the relevant rules and whether I 
think its treated Mr B fairly.
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mr B to hold Barclays responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded. For 
Mr B to be successful in this complaint, I have to be persuaded that Barclays considered his 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation unfairly, and that D did breach or 
misrepresent the contract. 
When making his complaint to Barclays, Mr B referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA). The CRA says that a consumer should expect the service theyve paid for to be 
carried out with reasonable care and skill. Mr B says D failed to do that. He raised a number 
of issues about the way D provided the driving course and thought they had misrepresented 
the course by saying its instructors would be fully qualified and professional. Mr B 
questioned the qualifications and ability of his instructor. He said there was a lack of 
communication and guidance, and he didnt think it was fair for the instructor to take him 
down a residential road in an HGV on his first lesson. 
For their part, D said the instructor was fully qualified by DVLA to deliver the training. 
Barclays said the contract Mr B agreed did not specify the level of qualifications the 
instructor should have. And neither did the DVLA website, which simply said that an 
instructor must have held an HGV licence for at least three years to supervise a learner 
driver. Barclays noted that an instructor must be registered with them in order to provide paid 
instruction. And it said D had confirmed that Mr Bs instructor was qualified to deliver the 
training. So, in light of the above, I think it was fair for Barclays to say there was nothing to 
show that Mr Bs instructor was under qualified.
But Mr B also questioned the ability of the instructor. And I think it was fair for him to expect 
his instructor to work at the same standard as any reasonably competent person in that 
profession. B said it was unable to comment on the standard of instruction as there was no 
way to validate it. Was that fair? Theres no dispute that Mr B hit a wing mirror and then a 
parked car. I can understand Mr Bs argument that a reasonably competent instructor would 
have reduced the risk of that happening and should perhaps have done more to gauge the 
competence of the learner before driving down a tight residential road. But only Mr B and the 
instructor were in the cab of the HGV during the lesson and there was no recording of what 
was said and done. So, on balance, I think it would be unfair to expect Barclays to rely solely 
on Mr Bs testimony of what happened without some other evidence to show that the 
instructor didnt carry out his role in a reasonably competent manner. 
Barclays said that D provided training in line with the terms and conditions of the contract 
Mr B had signed. That contract said that D had absolute discretion to terminate or cancel a 
training course for dangerous or reckless driving. D concluded that Mr Bs actions were a 
danger to other road users and their staff and, in light of the incidents that took place, I think 
that was a fair exercise of their discretion. The terms and conditions also said that fees for 
any courses not completed were non-refundable. And the trainee would be liable for the 
insurance excess in the event of damage to the training vehicle. So, in all the circumstances, 
I think it was fair for Barclays to say there had been no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation as D had provided a driving course, and terminated it, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the contract.
Chargeback
Chargeback is another way Barclays might have been able to recover funds for Mr B. But 
Barclays is limited to the particular scheme rules that apply. In this case the relevant card 
scheme is Visa. Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, 
and Id only expect Barclays to pursue the matter if there was a reasonable prospect of 
success. 
The Visa chargeback rules say a bank can make a chargeback claim if the goods or services 
were not as described. So, to be successful, a customer would need to provide evidence in support of their claim that the service they received was not as described. As Ive set out 
above, I dont think Mr B has made that case. He paid D to provide training on HGVs and he 
was given that training up to the point the course was terminated. Hes questioned the 
professionalism and qualifications of the instructor, as well as their ability and competence. 
But, for the reasons given above, I think Barclays responded to those points fairly. And so, I 
dont think there would have been a reasonable prospect of Mr B making a successful 
chargeback claim.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr B has experienced but, for the reasons provided, I 
do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc trading 
as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman