DRN-3187438
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement offer Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has 
made in relation to a claim made under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2021, Mr H found a collapsed drain at his property and made a claim under his 
home insurance policy. His insurer sent contractors to his property to assess the damage.
Mr H says he asked his insurer if he could use his own builder to carry out the repair work 
and that his insurer said he could. The builders invoice for the work came to £1,325 which 
Mr H paid. He then asked for this to be reimbursed. 
Fairmead rejected the amount presented and said its own contractors wouldve charged 
substantially less than the amount Mr H was claiming. Mr H disagreed with Fairmeads 
decision and made a complaint. He also asked to see its contractors quote.
Fairmead said it couldnt show Mr H the quote for confidentiality reasons  and that at no 
point did it agree to cover Mr Hs full costs.
Mr H remained unhappy with Fairmeads response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the issues and didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said during a phone call between Mr H and his insurer, Mr H was advised that he 
could use his own contractor but that Mr H was aware hed have to make up the shortfall.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy says the cost of repairing or rebuilding will be covered following loss or 
damage to buildings, but that We will not pay more than the cost to us (after any discount 
available from our approved suppliers) of repairing or rebuilding the buildings.
So I dont think it was unfair for Fairmead to tell Mr H it would only be paying what it wouldve 
cost the insurers contractor to carry out the work  as thats specified in the policy and isnt 
unusual. And having seen the quote from the insurers contractor, it is substantially less than 
Mr H paid his contractor. I appreciate that this leaves Mr H out of pocket  and I can 
understand how frustrating this must be for Mr H. But insurers often have a network of 
preferred contractors which offer substantial discounts. This also isnt unusual. 
Ive considered, however, whether Mr H was given any misleading information about this. 
Ive listened to the call between Fairmead and Mr H which took place on 7 June 2021. In this 
call its clear Mr H is aware that if his costs exceed the quote from the insurers contractor, 
then Mr H would need to make up the shortfall. I think this is evident from the call because 
Fairmeads representative says they wouldnt advise him to proceed with the work until their 
contractor comes back to them with the scope of work and their quote. Mr H responds to this 
saying he understands, but he is sure his own builder will be cheaper than the insurers. 
Mr H confirms during this call that time was of the essence for him. He said he wasnt 
concerned about the payment, but more so about having the work done as soon as possible, 
as his wife was currently restricted to indoors due to the damage, and they were due to go 
on holiday soon, so wanted the work completed before then. He also says hes keen to get 
his own builder to do the work as it would mean not having to take special precautions with 
their dogs, as their dogs were already familiar with their builder.
Mr H also says, towards the end of the call, that he wasnt aware he could claim to begin 
with, and so he was pleased the damage was covered under his policy. He adds that if 
anything wasnt paid for hed make up the difference himself. 
The conversation on this date makes me think Mr H was more concerned about getting the 
work done quickly, than being fully reimbursed for it. It also suggests Mr H was aware of the 
possibility that it would cost more for his contractor to do the work, and hed have to pay the 
difference, which is whats happened here. Mr H has since asked why he would pay over 
£1000 when he couldve paid around half that amount to get the work done. From the 
information available to me, including Mr Hs own statements during the phone conversation 
on 7 June, it appears that Mr H was in a hurry to get the repairs completed and didnt want to 
wait for the quote from the insurers contractor. Had he known the insurers contractor would 
be cheaper, before proceeding with the work, Im still not certain he wouldve used them. I 
say this because Mr H has given other reasons for wanting to use his own builder, which 
include the fact that he knew the builder and the builder knew his family, and the fact that he 
clearly wanted the work to be done quickly.
I also cant see any issues with the quote from the insurers contractor. The quote is detailed 
and includes the work I would expect to see in relation to repairing damage of this nature. 
Mr H has said that the insurers contractor didnt inspect the damage for very long  but 
based on the quote Ive seen, which includes photographs of the property and damage, 
together with a comprehensive report about the problem and the required solution, Im 
satisfied that the insurers contractor investigated the issue as Id expect.
Im afraid therefore, that for the reasons Ive given, I wont be upholding this complaint. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope my explanation reassures him 
that Ive carefully considered everything hes said, and makes clear why I wont be requiring 
Fairmead to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman