DRN-3503644
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Unum Ltd has refused to refund premiums he paid for an income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mr P has an income protection policy  hes had the policy for many years and its now 
Unums responsibility. Mr P claimed on the policy but the claim was declined. Mr P 
complained to our service and an ombudsman upheld the complaint. Unum then made 
changes to the policy benefit and Mr P complained to our service again. That complaint was 
not upheld.  
Mr P asked Unum to refund all of the premiums he paid between January 2019 and 
December 2020 which totalled about £3000. He feels he was forced to continue paying 
premiums just in case our service ruled in his favour. He said that if hed not done so that 
Unum would have refused to pay if the ruling went in his favour. 
Unum didnt uphold the complaint because they said the policy provided a benefit to Mr P 
during the relevant time period. They also said the contract of insurance confirms that the 
policyholder must continue to pay premiums when a claim is being assessed. Unhappy, 
Mr P made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Mr P confirmed hed taken some leave 
between April 2020 and December 2020. So, Mr P asked for a refund of premiums between 
January 2019 and April 2020.  The investigator didnt uphold the complaint because he was 
satisfied Unum had acted in line with the policy terms and as he was satisfied Mr P was 
receiving a benefit from the policy because he could have made a further claim on it. 
Unum accepted the investigators findings. Mr P asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In summary, he said the previous complaints have a direct impact on the request 
for the premiums to be refunded. He felt he was placed in a catch 22 situation and hed 
have cancelled the policy in 2019 had he not been forced to continue that complaint with 
Unum. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P has had a difficult experience with Unum over the last few years. Its 
clear from what hes said that hes found the process of claiming, and what he described as 
the stress of the battle with Unum, to be upsetting, worrying and frustrating. However, my 
decision in this case is about whether its fair for Unum to refund the premiums. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions say: 
Your policy begins of the start date and cover will continue as long as we 
receive the premiums shown in the policy schedule or in any written 
notification the premiums have changed.
Premiums remain payable throughout the deferred period and whilst we 
consider your claim. In the event that a liability decision cannot be made by 
the end of the deferred period, premiums remain payable until such time that 
the liability decision is made. Should the claim be successful the premiums 
paid will be refunded. You do not, however, pay premiums whilst receiving 
benefit from your policy.  
If we refuse a claim following a complete assessment, we will not refund the 
premiums.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The starting point is the contract of insurance between Mr P and Unum. The contract 
makes it clear that cover can only be in force whilst premiums are paid. And it also 
says the premiums are payable whilst the claim is considered and there is no right to 
a refund if a claim is declined. So, I dont think Mr P is entitled to a refund of the 
premiums based on the contract of insurance. 
Ive gone on to consider whether its fair and reasonable to direct Unum to refund the 
premiums. Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about the previous complaints 
he had with Unum. However, Mr P had the benefit of cover during the life of the 
policy  for example, if hed have become unwell for a different reason. I appreciate 
that Mr P didnt need to utilise the policy during the relevant time but that doesnt 
mean it was offering no benefit to him. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr P should have the 
benefit of cover under the policy between January 2019 and April 2020 and not pay 
the premiums. Otherwise, Unum would have carried the risk of him making the claim 
at no cost to Mr P. I dont think thats fair.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman