DRN-3379393
The complaint
Mr C and Ms W complain about what happened when they applied for a mortgage with 
Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin Money. They said Clydesdale behaved 
unprofessionally, strung out the application and gave them false hope it would be approved. 
What happened
Mr C and Ms W applied for a mortgage with Clydesdale Bank, via a broker. The lending was 
pre-approved in May, and a formal application was submitted on 2 June 2021. Mr C and 
Ms W paid a £515 valuation fee only a couple of days later. This valuation didnt involve any 
visit to the property, and it was approved on 7 June. But on 15 June, Mr C said his broker 
chased up Clydesdale, and was told the lending application had been declined. 
Mr C has a named contact at Clydesdale who liaises with him, but this person was on 
holiday until 21 June. She picked up the case again on her return and referred it back to the 
underwriter. Mr C and Ms W were asked for additional information and they provided this. 
Mr C said hed understood on 28 June that the underwriter was reconsidering. He said his 
broker told him the application had been approved, but then the case was considered yet 
again on 15 July 2021. There were then two more weeks of chasing, until on 27 July 2021 
Mr Cs broker passed on a final decline decision to him. He said that the process had taken 
over 3 months and was handled incredibly unprofessionally by Clydesdale.
Mr C said hed wasted his time, and this caused high levels of stress for him and Ms W. He 
said Clydesdale should, at the very least, refund the £515 valuation fee it had taken, but he 
thought it really ought to apologize and offer to compensate them for the time wasted and 
stress induced from the unprofessional handling of this case.
Clydesdale said this was always a complex application. It had looked at things in outline, in 
May, to see if it could proceed to a full application. It then asked for the valuation fee, 
promptly because it knew the outline of the application already. Clydesdale said it pays an 
independent valuer for this work, and the work was done so it still had to pay.
Clydesdale said it reached its decision on 9 June, a week after the formal application began 
on 2 June. It had then closed the case, on 17 June, but it understood that there were further 
discussions after this with Mr Cs named contact at the bank. 
Clydesdale said it would have needed to make several exceptions to its normal underwriting 
standards for the application to be affordable and its underwriters werent willing to agree to 
that. It understood that discussions were ongoing in early July, Mr Cs contact was trying to 
fit the application within its lending criteria. But ultimately she wasnt successful in that. 
Clydesdale stressed that this application had been turned down in early June. It said that the 
appeal should be understood against this background. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Clydesdale had 
delayed in making a decision on the application. Usually once lending is declined, there isnt 
any further action, but here Mr Cs contact appealed that decision with the underwriters over 
several weeks, by trying a few different propositions for them to look at. Unfortunately she 
wasnt able to bring Mr C and Ms Ws application within the banks lending criteria.
Our investigator said Clydesdale confirmed the application failed affordability after having 
stress tested Mr Cs then commitments. He noted that the bank has a duty of care to ensure 
it lends responsibly and mortgage payments are affordable going forward. He said lenders 
do usually charge a valuation fee at the start of the process, and that valuation was carried 
out. Clydesdale does have to pay the fee, even if Mr Cs application was then declined. 
Our investigator said he understood that this was frustrating, but he didnt think there was 
anything more Clydesdale could do. 
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that he and Ms W had been misled about their application. He said 
charging the fee for the valuation, given how Clydesdale had messed them around, was 
insulting and totally unprofessional. He wanted our service to focus on how unprofessionally 
this mortgage application was dealt with by Clydesdale who said yes, no, yes, no, maybe, 
no over months. He said Clydesdale wasted months of their valuable time, charged them, 
and led them to believe the application would be approved. 
Mr C wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that this has been a frustrating and disappointing process for Mr C and Ms W. 
Their application for lending had been pre-approved, so I understand why they thought this 
would go through. And I also appreciate they will have taken hope from the appeal they were 
offered. But Clydesdale has explained that it wasnt able to approve this lending, because of 
affordability concerns. I dont think Clydesdale delayed in reaching that decision, and I 
havent been able to identify errors in the information that Clydesdale assessed to reach its 
view. 
Mr C has told us that he thinks this process was very badly handled by Clydesdale, because 
he understood the application was turned down, then approved, then turned down again. 
And I can see from the emails that Clydesdale has shared with us that Mr C and Ms W were 
under the impression that the lending was going to be approved. But Clydesdale said efforts 
to help Mr C and Ms W with an appeal have to be understood against the background that 
their application had already been clearly declined. 
When a bank issues a mortgage offer, thats usually binding on the bank. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that a mortgage offer was actually issued in this case. So I dont think 
that Clydesdale did ever say yes. 
I dont know exactly what messages reached Mr C and Ms W, from their named liaison at 
the bank, passed via their broker. But I havent been able to identify a point, after the initial 
pre-application discussions, when Clydesdale did say it thought it could lend to Mr C and Ms 
W. So I dont think Clydesdale was clearly at fault in allowing Mr C and Ms W to appeal, 
even though that was ultimately unsuccessful.I know that Mr C also thinks Clydesdale should pay back the valuation fee that he and Ms W 
paid. But I can see the valuation was done, and had been completed before a decision was 
reached on this lending. In those circumstances, a valuation fee is usually not refundable. I 
understand that Mr C thinks the right thing to do would be for Clydesdale to refund this, 
perhaps as a gesture of goodwill, but if Clydesdale doesnt want to do that, then I dont think 
its unfair or unreasonable for Clydesdale not to do so. 
I know that Mr C and Ms W will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman