DRN-4188685
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined her claim for
damage caused by an escape of water and avoided her home buildings insurance policy
(treated it as though it never existed).
Mrs M is represented by Mr M in her complaint. I will refer to Mrs M in my decision for ease
of reading.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs M noticed water coming up from her kitchen floor. She contacted
Lloyds and registered a claim under her buildings insurance policy.
Lloyds arranged for an inspection of the damage. It subsequently declined the claim and
avoided the policy because of inaccurate information it says Mrs M provided when taking out
cover. It says Mrs M informed it the property had six bedrooms and four bathrooms. Lloyds
says the property has a minimum of six bedrooms, four bathrooms and additional toilets. It
also says from the estate agent advertisement in 2018 the property was described as having
eight bedrooms.
Mrs M disagreed with Lloyds. She says the property has an outbuilding that is used for
storage and as an office. She says it has no bedrooms and one bathroom. Mrs M says the
questions Lloyds asked at the application stage referred to the main property not the
outbuilding. She says the policy documentation she received refers to the detached house
and confirms she gave correct information that the property has six bedrooms and four
bathrooms.
Lloyds didnt change its decision to decline the claim and avoid the policy. It also says that
when Mr M was interviewed, he told it the two upstairs storage rooms in the outbuilding had
previously been classed as bedrooms. Lloyds says a toilet was also in situ when it visited the
outbuilding. It says its underwriting criteria cant cover more than a total of 10 bedrooms and
bathrooms. Mrs M didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. She says the policy wording required Mrs
M to declare all bedrooms and bathrooms including those in outbuildings. She says this
information was made clear in the documentation sent to Mrs M. And that she was informed
to contact Lloyds if any of this information was incorrect. Our investigator points to the policy
terms that require any bedrooms, now being used for another purpose, should also be
included. This meant the outbuilding storage rooms shouldve been declared as bedrooms,
in addition to the toilet, in the application.
Our investigator says that even without counting the additional bedrooms in the outbuilding,
there was an additional toilet that hadnt been declared. This meant there were at least 11
bedrooms and bathrooms at the property. Lloyds sent its underwriting criteria confirming it
wouldnt provide cover for a property with more than 10 bedrooms/bathrooms/toilets.
Because of this our investigator thought it had acted fairly in line with the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This allows Lloyds to avoid
the policy and decline Mrs Ms claim with the return of the premiums shed paid.
Mrs M disagreed with this outcome. She says Lloyds initially confirmed it would continue
cover with the number of bedrooms and bathrooms at an extra cost of £270.28. She says at
this time Lloyds was also aware of the extra bathroom. Because of this Mrs M says Lloyds
cant now refuse to provide cover.
As an agreement couldnt been reached it has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Let me explain.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
Lloyds says Mrs M failed to take reasonable care when taking out her policy to provide the
total number of bedrooms and bathrooms at the property, which included outbuildings. Ive
looked at the questions Mrs M was asked during the online application to see if they were
clear. The questions ask:
Rooms?
How many rooms does your house have?
Bedrooms  Include rooms that were originally built as a bedroom and any that have been
coverted for another use, e.g. a study or office.And:
Bathrooms
Include en-suites and any room containing a toilet.
As discussed Mrs M told Lloyds her house had six bedroom and four bathrooms. There is no
reference to outbuildings in the questions asked. The question only asks how many rooms
the house has. Ive seen a plan of Mrs Ms house this has six bedrooms and four
bathrooms/toilets. She says her understanding is that the questions related to her house not
the outbuilding.
Its not for a consumer to decide what an insurer wants to know. I think the questions asked
were clear. They didnt include any reference to outbuildings. Based on this I dont think Mrs
M answered the questions she was asked incorrectly.
Ive thought about the policy documentation Lloyds sent to Mrs M and whether this shows
she failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Lloyds says the answers
Mrs M gave dont include the toilet, or the two bedrooms currently being used as storage
rooms in the outbuilding.
Ive read the Insurance Statement Lloyds sent to Mrs M when she agreed the policy. This
says the property has six bedrooms and four bathrooms. This is detailed under the property
to be insured section. The following information is also provided under this section:
Number of bedrooms (including any rooms which were originally intended to be bedrooms
but are now used for other purposes, such as a study or home office)
And:
Number of bathrooms (including en-suites, shower rooms and separate toilets) at the
Home
The insurance statement has the heading, Property to be insured and under this it says,
Detached House. I note Mrs Ms comments that there is no mention of outbuildings cover
in this section. And that the correct number of bedrooms and bathrooms were confirmed. I
also note her comment that there is no indication she needed to comment on the outbuilding
here.
Ive seen the document headed How Our Policy Meets Your Needs. Under Buildings
Insurance it says that outbuildings cover is included.
The policy schedule has the heading About your property, which it describes as Detached
House with six bedrooms. Under the heading Buildings Insurance it splits the cover into
two further headings of Private residence cover and Outbuildings cover. There is no
reference in this section to what the rooms in the outbuildings are used for.
In its decline letter Lloyds says the policy documentation it sent to Mrs M contained a list of
the responses she had provided during her application. It says it was clearly stated that she
should carefully check the details and contact it immediately if any of the information was
incorrect. I dont disagree that this is what the documentation said. But I dont think this
shows that Mrs M answered Lloydss questions incorrectly.
If Lloyds wanted Mrs M to include the bathrooms and bedrooms from the outbuilding it didnt
make this clear. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs M to have answered in the way shedid based on the questions she was asked. Similarly, I dont think the information set out in
the policy documentation clarified this point either. This includes the policy schedule,
insurance statement and the document entitled How our policy meets your needs. Based
on this I dont think Mrs M made a misrepresentation. This means the remedies under
CIDRA werent available to Lloyds for it to avoid the policy and decline the claim.
Having considered all of this I dont think Lloyds treated Mr M fairly when avoiding the policy
and declining her claim. It should now reinstate the policy for the relevant period and remove
any reference to the avoidance from any internal and external databases. It should also
consider Mrs Ms claim under the remaining terms and conditions of its policy.
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Lloyds should:
reinstate the policy for the relevant period and remove reference to the avoidance
from any internal and external databases; and
consider Mrs Ms claim based on the remaining policy terms and conditions.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision. 
Lloyds says Mrs M had made multiple applications online for home insurance, and a 
telephone call to its sales department to clarify the cover offered. It says Mrs M provided 
different details relating to the number of bedrooms and bathrooms at her property 
throughout her applications.
In its response Lloyds says a maximum of ten bathrooms and bedrooms is allowed under its 
underwriting criteria. It refers to a transcript of a call from 20 February 2018 in which Mrs Ms 
representative was asked questions about her property. It highlights the answers given and 
says this shows Mrs M was aware of the underwriting limits it had in place. 
Lloyds has also provided details of several quotes that were provided for its insurance in 
2018, 2020 and 2021. It says that although Mrs Ms policy was cancelled her representative 
continued to make online applications for its insurance services. It concludes its response to 
say Mrs M had an awareness of its underwriting criteria, which is why it thinks its decision 
was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Lloydss comments about applications and a telephone discussion relating to 
policy applications in previous years. However, of relevance here is the application that was 
made on 21 June 2021. It was under this policy that Mrs M made a claim for the escape of 
water in her kitchen.
As discussed in my provisional decision CIDRA is the relevant law here. One of the 
conditions it sets out is whether the questions asked by the insurer were specific and clear. 
In my provisional decision I said Mrs Ms application confirmed six bedrooms and four 
bathrooms. This was in response to the question under how many rooms does your house 
have. There was no reference to outbuildings in the question asked. I said I thought Mrs M 
had answered the question accurately.  I also referred to the Insurance Statement Lloyds sent to Mrs M. Under the heading 
Property to be insured it provides the description detached house directly beneath. Under 
the heading of Buildings Insurance in the same document it then separates Private 
residence cover from Outbuildings cover. Theres no reference in this section to what 
rooms in the outbuildings are used for. 
Ive considered all of the documents sent to Mrs M and I dont think its made clear that 
rooms in the outbuildings should be included when answering questions about the detached 
house. I said in my provisional decision that its not Mrs Ms role to interpret what Lloyds 
wants to know. She needs to respond to the questions she is asked accurately and take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. I think she did this. I dont think the policy 
documentation reasonably alerted her to an issue either. Certainly, I dont think it makes it 
clear that Mrs M should have added the outbuilding rooms to those declared for her 
detached house. 
In summary I dont think Lloydss question, about the number of rooms, was clear and 
specific in asking for the rooms in the outbuildings to be included. And I dont think its policy 
documents made this any clearer for Mrs M. Because of this Im not persuaded that a 
change to my provisional decision is warranted. This will now become my final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
should:
reinstate the policy for the relevant period and remove reference to the avoidance 
from any internal and external databases; and
consider Mrs Ms claim based on the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman