DRN-3482137
The complaint
Ms W (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans
she couldnt afford to repay because she was unemployed at the time of the lending.
What happened
Ms W was advanced 5 home collected loans between January 2014 and February 2016. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date term of 
loan 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 23/01/2014 20/11/2014 32 £10.00
2 £150.00 02/04/2014 12/02/2015 34 £7.50
3 £150.00 12/02/2015 14/07/2015 34 £7.50
4 £200.00 14/07/2015 11/02/2016 34 £10.00
5 £200.00 11/02/2016 sold 33 £10.00
Ms W had some problems repaying her final loan and Morses has said the outstanding
balance was sold to a third-party collection agency in November 2016.
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. So, where
loans overlapped Ms Ws weekly commitment was greater. For example, when loans 1 and 
2 were running her weekly commitment to Morses was £17.50 per week.
It is also worth noting that Morses can tell us that prior to loan one in the table above,
Ms W had taken a further five loans with another company. Morses purchased this other
company in March 2014 at which point it only took responsibility for any loans that were
outstanding at the time.
Any loans that were advanced and either fully repaid or sold to a third party before 
March 2014 would not be the responsibility of Morses. Therefore, this decision can only 
focus on the 5 loans detailed above.
Following Ms Ws complaint. Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold her complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks before these
loans were advanced.
Ms Ws representative didnt accept the outcome and instead referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator and it was partly upheld. He thought it was
fair for Morses to have granted loans 1  4. However, he concluded loan 5 shouldnt have
been advanced because it was clear that the lending was now harmful to Ms W.
Ms Ws representative responded and appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
At the same time, it provided a spreadsheet of Ms Ws loan history  which mirrors the loan
table above.
It also said that it would ask Ms W for copies of her bank statements. Later it told us that 
Ms W didnt have a bank account at the time. Instead Ms W received her money through the
Post Office because she was in receipt of benefits.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators decision to uphold loan 5. In summary it said:
There was no evidence Ms W was using other lending or other funds in order to meet 
her repayments.
Morses wasnt aware of any financial difficulties Ms W may have been having at the 
time.
For the year prior to loan 10 (loan 5 in the table above), Ms W didnt receive any 
arrears notices.
The income and expenditure information Morses obtained showed it that Ms W was 
likely to be able to afford the loans she was committed to making. 
Morses considers it appropriate to lend to Ms W because the loans looked affordable 
and sustainable.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me. I then issued a 
provisional decision outlining that I was intending to not uphold the complaint.  to resolve.
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ms W appears to have agreed with the adjudicators findings in relation to loans 1  4. So, it
seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding
about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship between Morses and Ms W.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether it was reasonable to advance loan 5 to Ms W.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms W could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms
Ws income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms W. These factors include:
Ms W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms W.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms W could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms W was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ws complaint.
Loan 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan because for a number of factors he concluded that by now
this loan was harmful for Ms W because it was now unsustainable to continue to lend to her.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think Morses wouldve
concluded that this loan was now so harmful to Ms W.
I accept, that Ms W had been indebted with Morses for around two years, which in some
situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on these loans or at the very least having
longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was 
consecutive, which could show that Ms W had a continued need for credit  without a break.
But I also have to keep in mind that these loans were for fairly small sums to be repaid over
a longer period of time than say a payday loan  meaning weekly repayments of £10 per
week.
There also hadnt been any obvious repayment problems within the last year. So, I dont
think I can fairly uphold this loan solely because in effect Ms W had been indebted to Morses
for around two years.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morse wouldve or ought to have realised that
this loan was unsustainable for Ms W, but that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done
before advancing this loan.
Ms W had declared a weekly income of £373 with outgoings of £135 which gave Ms W a
disposal weekly amount of £231 in order to meet her repayment of £10 per week. This may
have then led Morses to believe that Ms W had sufficient disposable income and could
afford the loan repayment.Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms W declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms W could
afford the loan repayments.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt and the fact that Ms Ws lending had increased for this loan ought to have prompted it
to consider whether it knew enough about Ms Ws financial position.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ws actual financial position to
ensure loan 5 was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Ws credit report.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Ws general financial
position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that
Ms W couldnt afford the loan.
Ms Ws representative hasnt been able to provide copies of her bank statements (which
may have showed us and Morses what other commitments Ms W had and / or her living
costs) because at the time Ms W says she didnt have a bank account. Instead, it she says
she used the Post Office to manage her finances. This likely means that many or all of
Ms Ws weekly expenditure was through cash transactions.
However, Ms Ws representative has provided a copy of her credit report which was
generated in October 2021. So, there will be information contained within the report that
covered the period of time from when loan 5 was granted. Ive considered the credit report to
see whether had Morses looked into Ms Ws finances in more detail it wouldve concluded
the loan wasnt affordable for her.
Looking at the credit report I can see there are a number of Country Court Judgements but
these were recorded after loan 5 was granted so Morses wouldnt have been aware of them.
Based on what I can see it doesnt look like Ms W had any other credit outstanding at the
time loan 5 was advanced. Although, there was some indication that shed borrowed from a
high street rent to buy creditor.
There wouldve been a default recorded on the credit file which wouldve been visible at the
time. But the default was recorded around two year before loan 5 was granted so I dont
think Morses wouldve thought that was a sign of current financial difficulties.
Based on the information Ive been given to date, had Morses done further checks, such as
looking at Ms Ws full credit report, it wouldve likely concluded the loan was affordable and
sustainable for her.
So, without any further information from Ms W about her other living costs which arent
visible on the credit report, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen 
had it made better checks.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loan 5. Even considering what Ms W declared to Morses for her
income and expenditure. Im therefore minded concluding it was reasonable for Morses to
have provided this loan.As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Ms Ws complaint about this loan and
therefore, Im not intending to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Response to the provisional decision
Both parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration by the Financial 
Ombudsman as soon as possible, but no later than 13 May 2022. 
However, no further responses have been received from either Morses or Ms W (or her 
representative). As the deadline for a response to the provisional decision has now passed, I 
see no reason not to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information or comments have been provided, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think that Morses carried out a proportionate check for loan 5. But based on the 
evidence provided to date, including Ms Ws credit report, there isnt enough to say that had 
Morses done the level of check Id have expected that it wouldve concluded the loan was 
unaffordable for her. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman