DRN-2908438
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. In that decision, I explained why I 
thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. I looked at the inspection report which 
showed that there was a fault with the heater which was present at the point of supply. And I 
explained that the real issue here was not whether there was a fault (which the business 
accepted) but whether the business should be allowed to repair the car or allow a rejection.
I said I was satisfied that Mr C had asked to reject the car because of the fault within the first 
30 days, but that this request had been refused because the supplying dealer was unable to 
find a fault. I explained that I was persuaded by the engineering evidence which was clear 
that there was a fault which wouldve been present at the point of supply. I said that because 
Mr C had asked to reject within the first 30 days, he should be allowed to do so now. 
I explained that I was of the view that Mr C should be allowed to reject the car but that I 
wouldnt be asking Santander to refund all of the monthly payments because despite the 
fault, Mr C had been able to use the car. He was unable to use it for around a month.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C replied and said he accepted my provisional decision. Santander didnt reply to the 
decision. So I see no basis to reach different conclusions to the ones I reached in my 
provisional decision.   
Putting things right
Because the car isnt of satisfactory quality, and because Mr C asked to reject the car within 
the first 30 days, Mr C should be allowed to reject the car now.
Mr C has been caused significant inconvenience by the fault with the car. Hes had to return 
it to the dealer and arrange his own inspections. Hes also suffered a loss of enjoyment 
whilst driving the car because of the fault. I think its fair to ask Santander to pay 
compensation to reflect this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund the deposit paid plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund one monthly payment
Refund the cost of the inspection arranged by Mr C (upon proof of payment) 
Pay total compensation of £350 for distress and inconvenience (less credit for any sums 
already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman