DRN-3455101
The complaint
S complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to decline a claim for 
subsidence. Any references to AXA also include its agents.
 
What happened
S owns commercial premises and noticed signs of subsidence. Since late 2016, the property 
has been insured by three separate insurers, with AXA being the first insurer offering cover 
between December 2016 and December 2017. S subsequently made claims to all three 
companies, some of which were made in 2019. The current and middle insurer both declined 
the claim saying their assessments of the damage indicated it pre-dated the start date for 
their respective policies. 
S made a claim to AXA in January 2020. When it received the claim, AXA appointed a loss 
adjuster. They inspected the property, noting there was internal and external damage 
consistent with tree root induced clay shrinkage subsidence. The loss adjuster sent a report 
to S in September 2020, declining the claim. It said the insurer on cover after the policy with 
AXA ended in December 2017 identified the damage was limited to the floor slab only and 
the loss adjuster thought that would also be true if AXA had been notified of the damage in 
2017. 
The loss adjuster said had S notified AXA of the damage in 2017, the claim would have been 
accepted. However, in delaying telling AXA about the damage, it had worsened and 
extended to the walls, and AXA considered S had prejudiced its position. AXA said it 
wouldnt offer any support to S in terms of settling the claim. 
S complained about AXAs decision to decline the claim. AXA responded to the complaint in 
July 2021 and said it didnt agree with the suggestion from S representative AXA and the 
two subsequent insurers should share the cost of the repairs. AXA said it remained of the 
view the decision to decline the claim based on the late notice of the damage was 
reasonable. AXA reiterated its position had been prejudiced due to worsening damage. AXA 
also suggested S was in breach of the policy terms by not notifying it of the damage sooner. 
S referred the complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator. They 
said they didnt think AXA had acted unfairly in declining the claim on the basis S had 
delayed notifying it of the damage. As S and its representative didnt agree, this matter has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed the report from February 2020 which was completed by AXAs loss 
adjuster. This noted cracking to various walls, the floors, and some ceiling tiles. The loss 
adjuster also reported the insurer that provided cover after AXA had identified pre-existing 
damage to the floor slab which had been limited to a specific part of the building for a couple 
of years. A loss adjusters report for the third insurer, dated November 2019, stated the 
damage was identified in 2017, and S had been aware of cracking to the floor slab for a 
couple of years. 
Ive also reviewed a statement provided by S by email, which gives S account of when they 
noticed the damage. This said they first noticed the cracking to the floor slab in the summer 
of 2017 but didnt think too much of it until it progressed to the walls. 
On the basis of the information provided, Im satisfied S was aware of the cracking to the 
floor slab before the policy with AXA ended in December 2017. I now need to decide if 
AXAs decline of the claim was fair.
And Im sorry to disappoint S, but Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly. Ive considered Claims 
notification condition 1, which says:
You must
1 as soon as practical
a give us notice of any circumstances which might lead to a claim under this 
policy
Ive considered here whether I think S acted in line with this condition. I dont think it did. As 
Ive set out above, theres clear and consistent evidence S noticed and was aware of the 
cracking to the floor slab while the policy was in effect until December 2017. AXA wasnt 
notified of the potential claim until early 2020, so I cant say S gave notice to AXA as soon as 
practical or from when they became aware of the damage. In fact, it was more than two 
years from the policy ending before S notified AXA. Im satisfied AXA is acting fairly in 
relying on this clause. 
Ive gone on to consider the wording of the Claims procedure condition, which says:
1 You must take, or allow others to take, practical steps to prevent further loss or 
damage, recover property insured, lost and otherwise minimise the claim
We will not pay your claim where you have not complied with this condition.
Against this background Ive considered the reports from the loss adjuster. There is a 
consistent account in all reports provided the cracking was first identified in the floor slab and 
then progressed to the walls. On this basis, it doesnt appear S took steps to prevent further 
damage. 
S representative says AXA should be responsible for covering the repair costs for the 
damage to the floors because it was the insurer when this damage occurred. Had S told 
AXA there might be damage to the property at the time it was noticed, I might agree with this 
suggestion. But because of the time that passed between the damage being noticed and 
AXA being informed, I dont agree AXA is acting unreasonably in relying on the above 
wording of the Claims procedure conditions. I consider the policy terms were clear in setting 
out when S needed to notify AXA of a potential claim. S hasnt either notified AXA of a 
potential claim, or shown they tried to take any steps to prevent further loss.
With this in mind, I dont consider AXA is unfairly relying on these policy terms when 
declining the claim. Im not going to require it to accept this claim or take any further steps to 
put things right for S. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman