DRN-4186119
The complaint
Mr D complained that part of his claim was unfairly declined by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) under his landlords insurance policy. He said his claim was 
poorly managed and the delays meant he couldnt rent out his property sooner.
What happened
Mr D made a claim to RSA just after his tenant moved out of his property. Mr D said a ridge 
tile had become dislodged by a storm. Mr D said, the tenant did not report the ridge tile (if 
she had noticed it) and therefore the damp had time to damage the roof, ceiling and exterior 
wall, including the inside of the property.
RSA sent a surveyor to review the damage and validate the claim. RSA declined the 
external damage to the property as it said there was no evidence of an insured peril. 
However, RSA did confirm it would cover the internal damage and RSAs supplier was 
appointed to attend and repair the damage to the property.
However, when the supplier attended, it recommended to RSA that the internal damage be 
declined also as there was no evidence of an insured peril. It said there was long-standing 
maintenance issues.
RSA acknowledged there were delays and poor handling of the claim. There were delays 
in the supplier scoping the work. However, RSA confirmed it was covering the area under 
the leak as accidental damage but did say other areas of the property relating to damp and 
mould wouldnt be covered.
RSA paid £600 to settle the accidental damage and paid £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused (£250 of which was through waiving the excess payment on the 
claim). However, Mr D was unhappy he wasnt reimbursed for loss of rent for the delays in 
the claim. RSA said there was other maintenance issues with the property that Mr D needed 
to deal with before the property could be rented. It also said there was no tenants in place or 
evidence of prospective tenants been willing to move in. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought as RSA was responsible for 
delays, it should cover the loss of rent for that period (£3,150). However, she did think the 
compensation offered was fair in the circumstances. RSA disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 6 June 2023. I said:
Before I share my decision, I want to clarify that Mr D has raised more than one complaint in 
relation to this incident. There is a separate complaint that is been investigated by our 
service considering the fairness of RSAs decision not to cover the external damage to the 
property because of a storm. As this is being considered elsewhere, I wont cover this in my 
decision. I will only focus on the internal damage and the loss of rent claim.
I can see there was confusion over whether the internal damage was covered. The original 
surveyor indicated it was covered, then the subsequent supplier when scoping out the work 
recommended it wasnt covered. Im glad that RSA has clarified in its final response that 
damaged areas from the ingress of water would be covered. RSA has offered a cash 
settlement of £600 to cover this. I think this is fair. RSA only need to cover the costs of 
repairing the damage the leak caused internally.
Ive then considered the loss of rent Mr D has suffered. He said the delays that RSA caused 
meant he couldnt rent out his house sooner. However, RSA said he wasnt covered for loss 
of rent as there were no tenants or prospective tenants in the property.
Ive checked the policy to see what is covered. The policy sets out that Mr D is covered for 
loss of rent resulting from damage to property. The policy defines loss of rent as the actual 
amount of the reduction in the Rent received by you during the Indemnity Period solely as a 
result of Damage to Buildings.
The policy doesnt set out that loss of rent is only paid when there is a sitting tenant or a 
prospective tenant, so I dont think RSAs reason for not paying loss of rent is reasonable. 
RSA has acknowledged it caused delays to the claim  it said it couldve settled the claim in 
August 2022. However, I listened to a call where RSA agreed to settle £600 for the claim 
and awarded compensation. This was in January 2023. So, I think the claim has been 
delayed for six months.
I dont think RSA has been fair in not paying any loss of rent. Mr D said hes had regular 
tenants for the past 18 years. On request, hes provided evidence that his property has been 
rented out for the last five years. I think the damage to his property has brought a break in 
his ability to rent out the property. As RSA didnt settle his external damage, Mr D had this 
rectified and this was completed by August 2022  so, I think the settlement of the internal 
damage has been the main cause in Mr D not been able to advertise his property. I think the 
property was likely to be rented out based on the history of rentals.
I appreciate RSA has said Mr D wouldnt have been able to rent out his home due to other 
defects in the property. However, I dont think RSA has sufficiently proven this. I have 
checked the report produced by RSAs supplier who came to scope the works and there is 
no commentary in the report to set out what damage was caused by the water ingress and 
what damage was present pre-loss. I think the delays to the settlement has led to a loss of 
rent, so I uphold this complaint. 
Mr D claimed for loss of rent at £525 per month which is what he said he wouldve been able 
to easily rent his property out for. He has provided evidence from his estate agent that the 
market suggests his property couldve been rented out for over £700. Therefore, I think Mr D 
has been reasonable in his assumption of monthly rent. I intend that RSA pay Mr D £525 for 
five months  which is the six months delay less one month which Ive deducted to allow 
time for the repairs to be completed for the damage from the leak and other defects not 
caused by the leak (£2,625 in total). As Mr D has been without this money, Im going to add 
8% simple interest per annum from the date in August RSA acknowledged it couldve settled 
the internals to the date it pays the loss of rent.
Mr D has asked for compensation of £1,000 for distress and inconvenience. I appreciate this 
wouldve been stressful, but part of that stress is down to the incident itself. I cant hold RSA 
accountable for that. However, I do think their indecision and inaction has caused a level of 
delay and frustration. However, by paying £500 already, I think RSA has made a fair payment of compensation, so I wont be asking it to increase this.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA said it was not challenging my decision and had no further information to add.
Mr D accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received any new information, so I dont see a reason to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr D:
£2,625 for the lost rent he has suffered for the delays it caused, plus 8% simple 
interest* per annum from the date in August 2022 RSA acknowledged it couldve 
settled the internals to the date it pays the loss of rent.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. RSA must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr D 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman