DRN-4251353
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have a travel insurance policy underwritten by UKI. Their flight was delayed by 
just over three hours before the airline cancelled it. They werent able to get a new flight until 
24 hours later, which would leave them with only one full day in the resort so unfortunately, 
they had to abandon their trip. 
The airline refunded the cost of the cancelled flights, but they didnt offer any compensation 
to cover any of their unused costs. So they made a claim on their policy. 
UKI declined the claim. They said there was no cover under the abandonment section of the 
policy because their flight was delayed by less than six hours.
Mr and Mrs R complained and also raised concerns about the customer service they 
received from UKI. They said their communication was poor and they felt UKI were confused 
about whether the claim was covered or not because the policy terms are unclear. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said UKI had been fair to decline the 
claim. And she mentioned the policy had an exclusion for cancelled flights. She also said 
UKIs offer of £75 to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused by their poor customer 
service was reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. In summary they said: 
£75 isnt a reasonable amount of compensation for all the stress, anxiety and 
inconvenience this situation has caused 
£75 is the excess amount they would have paid if theyd been able to make a claim 
so it does not compensate for all the time they wasted.
If an exclusion applies to the policy (when a flight is cancelled) then they should have 
been made aware of this during the very first conversation to avoid all of this added 
uncertainty.
So the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the claim for an insured event? 
The rules say a business must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably
reject a claim.
Under the abandonment section of the policy the terms state UKI will cover unused costs if:
you choose to abandon your trip because your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is
delayed beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at the point of international
departure from the UK by more than  Six hours if your trip is scheduled to last four nights 
or less.
I think this term is clear that the delay must be more than six hours to be able to claim. I note 
Mr and Mrs Rs point that the plane remained on the runway until the next day, but theyve 
confirmed the flight was cancelled by the airline within the first six hours of the delay. Once a 
flight is cancelled, I think its fair for UKI to no longer deem it delayed. 
So I think it was reasonable for UKI to decline cover under the abandonment section of the 
policy because the flight wasnt delayed for more than six hours. 
The exclusion for cancellation
Insurance policies terms are usually written with two key elements - 'insured events' which 
describe broad circumstances in which a claim will be considered. And 'exclusions', which 
are specific exceptions to those insured events. 
In this policy there is an exclusion under the delay and abandonment exclusion for cancelled 
flights: 
 What is not covered 
Any claim where the aircraft, ship or train on which you are booked to travel is
cancelled by the operator.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs concerns that they shouldve been told the exclusion for 
cancellation applied when they first made the claim. But UKI didnt mention or apply this 
exclusion. As explained above, they declined cover because the six hour threshold for the 
delay was not met, so there wasnt an insured event. And I think that was fair. 
Its not unusual or unfair for UKI to explore if they were claiming for an insured event, before 
going on to consider if any exclusion applies. In addition, UKI has explained that if the 
cancellation had occurred after six hours, then they may still have offered cover and not 
applied the exclusion. 
Customer service
Mr and Mrs R have concerns about UKIs customer service  for example they incorrectly 
wrote out to say they had tried to contact them, when they hadnt. And they provided 
incorrect information about their phone line operating hours. Although, Im not able to direct 
UKI about how it should operate its phone line, I can understand why the misinformation 
caused Mr and Mrs R frustration and inconvenience.
Having reviewed everything, I agree UKIs communication couldve been better. But I think 
the £75 offered is enough to recognise the impact of this. 
I know Mr and Mrs R invested a lot of time into this claim, including using the portal, making 
phone calls, drafting letters and providing evidence. But Im mindful that making an 
insurance claim will always have some degree of inconvenience.I acknowledge that the advisor escalating Mr and Mrs Rs concerns to their leader didnt help 
matters, as it mismanaged their expectations. However, I dont think its unreasonable the 
advisor wanted to ensure UKI were being fair in the circumstances - especially as its clear 
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy and had explained they wouldnt have been able to get a new 
flight before the following day.  Mr and Mrs R said the advisors were empathetic to their 
circumstances, so Im persuaded this escalation by the advisor was done to be helpful rather 
than it being because they were unclear on how to apply the policy terms.
Taking everything into account, I think UKI handled the claim fairly and the offer of £75 
compensation is reasonable for the impact caused by their poor communication at times. 
Summary
I know Mr and Mrs R were in a difficult situation. And its understandable why one full day in 
the resort wasnt feasible. So, whilst I entirely understand their reasons for abandoning their 
holiday, there just isnt cover under their policy for the situation in which they found 
themselves in. I think UKI explored if they were able to step away from their terms and 
conditions, but they werent able to. So I dont think UKI unreasonably declined their claim. 
And I think the £75 offer of compensation is fair to reflect their poor communication at times. 
I appreciate this is frustrating, but I hope Mr and Mrs R understand there just isnt any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman