DRN-2349180
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as B, is unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance PLC handled 
a claim on a commercial motor policy. B says there were delays and the decision to decline 
the claim is unfair. Mr S, who is a partner in B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B insured a quad bike it used for farm work on a commercial motor policy with Zurich. In 
2019 the quad bike was stolen from Bs farm in the middle of the day. After realising the 
quad bike was missing Mr S spoke to his neighbour, who described seeing a white van 
driving away from the farm at speed. Mr S reported the theft to the police and Bs broker 
notified Zurich of the loss. The broker told Zurich the keys had been in the ignition when the 
quad bike was taken. 
The insurer sent out an agent to interview Mr S about the theft. Mr Ss statement said hed 
removed the key from the ignition and placed it in a work coat, hung up in another barn. It 
also said Mr S had lost one of the keys originally supplied with the quad bike a few months 
earlier, and hadnt gotten around to replacing it. So hed been using the spare one since.
Zurich obtained a copy of the police report, which said the quad bike had been parked with 
keys and unattended when it was stolen. Zurich also sent the spare key to a specialist 
company for testing. That report said the key showed little or no signs of regular use. So, six 
weeks after the loss was first reported, Zurich declined the claim  concluding Mr S had 
likely breached a term in the policy by leaving the quad bike unattended with the keys in the 
ignition. 
B complained initially about the length of time it was taking Zurich to assess the claim, and 
then about the claims decision itself. Zurich sent out a final response which explained that 
having to request the police report and getting the spare key tested had meant the claim had 
taken longer to assess. In a separate final response letter, about the claim outcome, Zurich 
quoted the term in the policy it was relying on  which said it wouldnt be liable for loss of or 
damage to the Vehicle when unattended unless all windows, doors, roof openings or hood 
are closed and locked and all ignitions keys or other removable ignition device and keys or 
devices needed to lock the Vehicle are removed from the Vehicle. 
B wasnt happy with the response and so referred the complaint to our service for review. An 
investigator here thought Mr Ss explanation surrounding the keys seemed plausible  and 
so didnt think it was fair for Zurich to decline the claim on that basis. Zurich disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
I wrote to Zurich to say Mr Ss testimony appeared to be different from what was initially 
reported, so I could understand why it had relied on what was likely first told the police. But I 
didnt think the keys potentially being in the ignition had materially affected whether the quad 
bike was stolen. I considered the theft was likely planned, with the thieves coming equipped 
and intending to take the quad bike regardless of the keys being available or not. So I was 
minded to say Zurich hadnt fairly applied the term it was relying on, and should pay 
compensation to the partners for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Zurich didnt agree  and responded to say it thought the theft would have been far more 
difficult, if not impossible, if the keys had not been in the ignition. The insurer said Mr S had 
breached a policy condition by leaving the keys in the quad bike, and provided potential 
thieves with a quicker and easier method of stealing it. In summary, Zurich raised the 
following points in response to my provisional thoughts:
The thieves couldnt see the quad bike from the road, so in Zurichs view this wasnt 
a targeted theft. The insurer suggested there might have been no ill intent when the 
thieves initially entered Bs land, they could have been scouting for scrap metal 
(which is mentioned in the police report). But seeing a quadbike with the keys left in 
the ignition has resulted in an opportunistic theft.
The exact circumstances of the theft are unknown, and so theres a version where 
the keys being in the ignition did facilitate the theft  with the quad bike being driven 
away across the fields, for instance.
Zurich had spoken to its experts, who said targeted thefts for quadbikes are often 
carried out at night and the bikes are towed away, not put onto the back of vans. A 
van was seen, but it wasnt towing a quad bike  so the insurer believed it was more 
likely driven away (which the keys would have facilitated).
The quad bike was heavy, and so Zurich thought it would have been very difficult 
even for two men to load it on the back of a van without being able to drive it on. 
Thus, in the insurers view, the keys had likely enabled quicker loading and getaway 
(important as the theft occurred in broad daylight).
Some models of the van spotted driving away by the neighbour wouldnt have been 
large enough to fit the dimensions of the quad bike inside.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I think good industry practice at the relevant time looked like. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
says an insurer can only decline a consumer claim due to a breach of policy condition if its 
material to the loss. Ive borne that guidance from the regulator in mind as part of my overall 
considerations of what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The Insurance 
Act 2015 is also relevant to this commercial contract, and has a similar provision  it says an 
insurer cant turn down a claim if the breach didnt increase the likelihood of the loss that 
actually occurred in the circumstances it occurred. So, taking account of the above law and 
guidance, for the term Zurich has relied on to be fairly applied I need to be satisfied that the 
keys being left in the ignition likely made it possible or easier for the thieves to steal to the 
quad bike. Put simply, did the availability of the keys in any way encourage or facilitate the 
theft?
Firstly, I want to note that it isnt known for certain whether the keys were left in the ignition  
and Mr S has said they werent. But given the initial disclosures made to the insurer and the 
police, I think it was fair that Zurich proceeded on that assumption  I just dont think the 
keys made a difference here. Ive explained why below. As Zurich has pointed out, the exact details of the theft are unknown  so Ive had to decide 
what I think likely happened using the available evidence. The thieves couldn't see the quad-
bike from the road, so it wasn't seeing the keys in the ignition that encouraged the theft. 
Having watched a lot of footage of this model of quad bike, it isnt easy to tell whether the 
keys are in the ignition unless youre close. That means the thieves wouldnt have known 
about the keys until they were right next to the quad bike and already scoping it out  so I 
dont think this was an opportunistic theft. 
Theres other evidence to support this being targeted and planned  with the police report 
mentioning sightings of two men in a white van scouting out farms in the area, under the 
guise of looking for scrap metal. Being mentioned on the report suggests the police were 
working on the assumption it was the same men. Theres also testimony on file referring to 
other quad bike thefts locally. These thieves came ready with a van and drove up a half-mile 
track through two five-bar gates to get to the quad bike. Those that would be willing to 
attempt a robbery of this kind in broad daylight would have come prepared (with ramps or 
whatever equipment might be needed), and Ive covered that they couldnt have known the 
keys would be in the ignition. So, on balance, I consider the thieves intended to take the 
quadbike  whether the keys were available or not. 
Its true that some models of this particular type of van wouldnt have been big enough to fit 
the quad bike. But the partial number plate given by the witness to police dates this van to a 
particular year  and most of the available models at that time would have been large 
enough. The witness also saw two men driving away. So, considering two men were spotted 
scouting out the area, I find it most likely the quad bike was loaded onto the van, rather than 
being driven away by a third thief. The quad bike is heavy, but having spoken to dealerships 
Im persuaded two men could have quickly wheeled it onto a van  with less noise than 
starting up the bike and driving it on. The handle bar on this model doesnt lock, so Im also 
satisfied manoeuvring it manually was possible without the keys.
As I dont consider the keys likely facilitated or made this theft easier, it follows that I dont 
think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Zurich to rely on the unattended vehicle 
policy term to decline the claim. Im therefore directing the insurer to settle the claim in line 
with the rest of the policy terms. 
I dont think Zurich significantly delayed giving B its claims decision, as getting information 
from other parties like the police (which was justified here) can be a long process. But I dont 
agree that decision was fair, so Ive gone on to think about the amount of time thats elapsed 
since  and the impact of being without settlement during that period.
Putting things right
Mr S replaced the quad bike using money he had from savings, so I dont think the claim 
being declined had an impact on Bs operations. But the claim should have been paid in 
2019, so Zurich should add 8% yearly simple interest on to the settlement figure from the 
date the incorrect claims decision was given until the date the claim is paid  to reflect the 
time B has been without those funds. The partners have described some mental stress and 
worry of not knowing if they would get that money back. So, bearing in mind how long the 
situation has been hanging over them, I consider £200 compensation to be fair in the 
circumstances for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Zurich Insurance PLC to:
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, together with 8% yearly simple interest from the date the claims decision was given in 2019 until B is paid; 
pay Bs partners £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell B how much its taken off. It should also give B a tax deduction 
certificate if its partners ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
B, to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman