DRN-3417142
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Equitable Plc switched the funds in his personal pension 
without his permission, and that it was responsible for a drop in value of the funds. 
What happened
Mr R had a personal pension with Scottish Equitable Plc. On 29 October 2015 Aegon, which 
was now responsible for Scottish Equitable, wrote to Mr R telling him it was planning to 
transfer his pension to a new Retiready Pension, which was an Aegon Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
The letter said this was because it would be on a digital platform, so he could access 
information about his pension online, and the plan was being transferred at no extra cost to 
him. The letter explained how he could opt out of the transfer if he didnt want it to go ahead. 
It said if he didnt reply, the transfer would start 42 days after the date of the letter. Mr R was 
also issued with policy document and Key Features document.
Another letter was sent on 19 November 2015 to remind Mr R about the approaching 
transfer and what he needed to do to opt out if he wished, and where to find information 
about the changes.
Mr R didnt reply to the letters so the transfer went ahead. Scottish Equitable sent a welcome 
letter explaining how to access his online account, including personalised illustrations and 
statements. 
The letter included a Confirmation of Transfer document. This confirmed that the investment 
strategy for 100% of his fund was the Aegon Universal Lifestyle Collection. It also contained 
a declaration that he agreed to the terms of the plan as detailed in the terms and conditions 
and the Retiready Insured Funds Policy, and that he accepted that the transfer and the 
information and documents he had been provided with should not be taken as giving any 
advice or recommendation.
Mr R received annual statements each year after that, providing a summary of his plan, a 
valuation and information about where he could access more detailed information about the 
plan. 
In December 2020 Mr Rs fund was worth around £158,000 but by February 2021 it had 
fallen to around £144,000. He complained to Scottish Equitable, saying the market had 
recovered at that time, so the drop in value meant it had been mismanaged. He was  
concerned that what he thought was a low risk fund had incurred this loss. Mr R said he 
wasnt aware that he was responsible for his own investments as he thought he was paying 
Scottish Equitable to do that.
Scottish Equitable sent a final response saying it didnt agree with the complaint. It said:
the terms and conditions made it clear Mr R was responsible for managing his 
investments and it only administered the pension; and 
the fund had been invested mainly in Gilts in 2021 and the drop in fund value was in 
line with the performance of those assets.
Mr R then brought the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said Scottish Equitable hadnt given Mr R any advice on his pension and was 
simply administering it, which it had done in line with the terms and conditions and Mr Rs 
instructions. She didnt think any drop in value was caused by mismanagement of the 
pension.
Mr R remains unhappy and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where financial advice is being given, an adviser would provide a personalised 
recommendation based on an assessment of the individuals circumstances. Scottish 
Equitable did not provide financial advice to Mr R. The service it agreed to provide was the 
administration for his pension. The key facts documents included a warning that it didnt offer 
financial advice and if Mr R wanted that, he should contact a financial adviser.
The key facts also explained that he would be charged for the management of the funds and 
day to day running costs  he wasnt being charged for advice.
The terms and conditions, and the key facts, set out how the funds would be dealt with. The 
funds were invested in different shares, managed by a range of fund managers in order to 
maximise diversification and growth. Shares would be sold at specific points before Mr Rs 
retirement date, to provide more certainty about the annuity he would be able to buy and to 
provide cash if he wanted to maximise the 25% tax free cash entitlement available at 
retirement date. 
This type of strategy aimed to consolidate gains and remove the risk of share values falling 
at the point where Mr R was approaching retirement and would need to take his benefits. Its 
common practice and aims to reduce risk in the run up to retirement. Mr Rs funds were 
allocated in line with this strategy, as set out in the terms and conditions. If he wanted to 
invest his funds in a different way, it was for him to let Scottish Equitable know that.
Mr Rs investments were moved to Gilts, which are bonds issued by the government; these 
are conservative, seeking to preserve capital and reduce risk. That doesnt mean they have 
no risk, and values may still go up and down. But the aim is that the level of retirement 
income is less likely to change dramatically if the value of long gilts or annuity rates moves 
up or down just before retirement. Although the value of those gilts did go down, that was in 
line with other gilt funds, and it outperformed the benchmark for its peers. On this basis, 
theres nothing to persuade me the fund was mismanaged or hadnt delivered the service 
Mr R paid for. Any drop in value was in line with the market and the relevant benchmark.
The investment conditions at the time Mr R is concerned about were difficult. But that wasnt 
something Scottish Equitable could control. Im satisfied it followed Mr Rs instructions  
correctly. 
Mr R has said he didnt authorise the switch in funds. The letters sent to him in 2015 
explained that although Scottish Equitable intended to switch his plan he didnt have to 
agree to this - they provided instructions on how to opt out. Mr R was also given a 
cancellation period after the change. So he had the option not to proceed. He was also 
advised to speak to a financial adviser if he wanted advice on his pension.Taking into account all the circumstances, Im satisfied Scottish Equitable administered 
Mr Rs pension correctly. Its unfortunate that investment conditions in 2021 led to a fall in 
value but Scottish Equitable wasnt responsible for that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman