DRN-3198534
The complaint
Mr K and Miss K are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and Miss K booked a holiday and were due to travel in May 2020. They booked flights 
and accommodation separately. On 6 February 2020 Mr K took out a Single Trip Premier 
policy with Great Lakes for he and Miss K. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel. That 
advice remained in force until Mr K and Miss Ks planned departure date.
The travel provider cancelled the booking and offered a voucher which could be used for the 
next 18 months. Mr K said he couldnt accept this as the trip had been to mark a specific 
event and Miss K was unable to commit to the holiday due to the fact that she was moving 
into the next stage of her education, meaning she couldnt go on the same trip for the 
foreseeable future. Mr K claimed on his travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes declined the claim saying that there wasnt cover under the policy in the 
circumstances. However, during conversations about the claim Mr K was told that if hed 
bought his policy after 24 February hed have been covered for changes in FCDO advice. 
He made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and asked for more information about why Mr K 
wasnt covered, when the policy terms hadnt changed at all between 6 and 24 February.
Great Lakes said that it had decided to offer additional cover for a short period of time and 
that this had been reflected in other information provided to customers, rather than in the 
policy terms.
The investigator upheld the complaint as he didnt think Mr K had been treated fairly. He 
said that there had been no change in the policy terms and he didnt think that Great Lakes 
had explained why Mr K wasnt entitled to cover for changes in FCDO advice, but a 
customer purchasing cover after 24 February was. He was satisfied that it was unlikely Mr K 
would be able to use the vouchers, given his specific set of circumstances and the purpose 
of the trip, so he thought Mr K had an irrecoverable financial loss. He thought that Great 
Lakes should treat Mr K in the same way as consumers who purchased a policy on or after 
24 February (with the additional coverage).
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr Ks complaint. In summary, I said:
I didnt think Great Lakes had provided sufficient information to demonstrate that an 
additional premium had been charged to consumers who purchased cover after 
24 February 2020. Id expect Great Lakes to be able to demonstrate that Mr K had 
paid less for a lower level of cover, for example with reference to underwriting 
evidence
There were other reasons that Mr Ks claim had been fairly rejected. Mr Ks claim 
arose due to a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and 
government restrictions in the UK and abroad
The policy didnt cover claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government 
of any country. Mr Ks holiday was most likely cancelled after the 23 March 2020, 
when the UK restrictions on movement were announced. And, in any event, the 
country Mr K was intending to visit closed its borders in March 2020 and they 
remained closed for several months. So, I thought it was likely the exclusion in 
relation to prohibitive regulations applied to the circumstances of his claim
 
I didnt think the claim was covered under the terms and conditions of the policy and 
there werent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to 
accept the claim. 
Great Lakes said that they had nothing to add. Mr K responded to say that he wasnt happy 
with my provisional decision and that Great Lakes had not been forthcoming with the 
underwriting information. He said he should get his premiums back. The seller of the policy 
has since agreed to refund Mr Ks premiums. So, I now need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the further points raised by Mr K Im not upholding this complaint. 
Mr K feels that Great Lakes have something to hide because he says that they havent been 
forthcoming with information which demonstrates other people paid more for cover. And 
these people had the same policy terms that he did. 
As I outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think Great Lakes has provided sufficient 
information to demonstrate that other customers were charged an additional premium for 
cover due to a change in FCDO advice. 
However, even if I accepted Mr Ks argument on that point, there is another relevant 
exclusion which I think Great Lakes can fairly apply in the circumstances of this complaint. 
There is no cover for claims arising due to the prohibitive regulations of any government. 
And, in this case, the UK imposed restrictions on movement at the relevant time and the 
country Mr K was visiting closed their border. 
I understand that the seller of the policy has now offered to refund Mr Ks premiums in full 
following his response to my provisional decision. However, thats not something Ill address 
further as part of this decision as the seller of the policy is a different financial business.   
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this 
complaint. My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman