DRN-1807268
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complained to Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) about the quality of a car they 
supplied to them through a hire purchase agreement.
For ease of reference, I will refer to Mrs N throughout this decision as she is the person who 
has been the main contact with our service throughout this complaint. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs N acquired a used car which she financed through a 48 month hire 
purchase agreement with GCC. The cash price of the car was over £8,000, it was around 
four years old and it had travelled over 67,800 miles. 
Mrs N said a couple of weeks after acquiring the car, she complained to the dealership that it 
was making an unusual noise when driving. The dealership said they dont have any records 
of such discussions.
In May 2019, Mrs N had the car inspected by a third party garage and they said the gearbox 
would need to be removed to investigate further and to replace the clutch and/or flywheel it 
would cost around £1,500.
Mrs N complained to the dealership. They said as the car had travelled over 5,000 miles 
since its supply, the fault was a result of general wear and tear meaning Mrs N would be 
responsible for the cost of the repair. The dealership said they could carry out a clutch repair 
at a discounted price of around £600.
Unhappy with this, Mrs N complained to GCC. As a gesture of goodwill, they offered to pay 
£200 towards the cost of the repair or alternatively they would pay for an independent 
inspection to determine whether the fault was present at the time of supply. Mrs N chose to 
have the report. 
An independent inspection was arranged by GCC and carried out in June 2019. By this 
point, the car had travelled over 73,900 miles. The report determined there was a fault with 
the clutch release bearing but concluded it likely wouldnt have been present at the time of 
supply.
As Mrs N remained unhappy, she referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They said they believed the car was of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and the fault was due to general wear and tear. 
Mrs N disagreed and maintained she made the dealership aware of the fault soon after she 
acquired the car and it was returned to them for an inspection within a couple of weeks. She 
said the dealership should have evidence of this. 
Mrs N has since voluntarily terminated the hire agreement and GCC has told her that she 
remains responsible for the outstanding balance including additional charges, which totals 
approximately £6,000. She said she cant afford to get another car and the situation is 
negatively impacting on her personal and financial circumstances. She wants to be put back 
in the position had the agreement not been taken out in the first place. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs N acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. GCC is the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be 
considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of supply and the cars history. 
In this case, Mrs N was supplied with a used car so it would be reasonable to have different 
expectations of it compared to a brand new car. For example, parts of car might have 
already suffered significant wear and tear meaning it might need a repair or maintenance 
sooner compared to a new car.
Clutch
Based on the evidence provided by the dealership, third party garage and the independent 
inspection report, it is clear there was a fault with the clutch on Mrs Ns car and it needed 
replacing in order to rectify the issue. Although this is the case, I must now consider whether 
the fault was present at the time of supply and if so, would that have meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. This is because although something has gone wrong, it doesnt always 
mean the goods are not of satisfactory quality.
The independent inspection report has concluded there was a fault but this wouldnt have 
been present at the time the car was supplied to Mrs N and I find this report most 
persuasive. I say this because the car is a second hand vehicle which had travelled over 
67,800 miles when supplied and it had covered a further 5,000 miles when inspected. Given 
the mileage and the cars age, it would be reasonable to expect parts of the car would be 
significantly worn and may need general maintenance or a repair sooner, especially a part 
such as the clutch which is serviceable item. Therefore I believe the fault is most likely due 
to general wear and tear. 
I have taken into account Mrs Ns comments that she contacted the dealership within a 
couple of weeks after acquiring the car to report the problem and it was inspected by them. 
She has provided a copy of her phone bill to support this. However theres not enough 
evidence to demonstrate that she spoke to someone, nor what the conversations were 
about. Equally there is no evidence the car was inspected by the dealership before May 
2019. While I accept there was a fault with the car, based on the relevant circumstances, including 
the price, age, mileage and when the fault was first reported, Im not persuaded it was 
present at the time of supply. As a result, I believe the car was of satisfactory quality when 
Mrs N acquired it.
Other
Mrs N has voluntarily terminated the finance agreement and the car has been returned to 
GCC. Shes mentioned shes unhappy that she is being pursued for the outstanding balance 
which includes charges for damages to the car and this it is negatively impacting on her 
financial circumstances. 
As these points werent originally raised by Mrs N to GCC when bringing this complaint, they 
havent had the opportunity to investigate or respond to them so I havent considered them in 
this decision. If Mrs N is unhappy with the outstanding balance and the additional damage 
charges, she may wish to consider raising this as a new complaint with GCC. If she remains 
unhappy with their response, we may be able to look into the complaint.
Summary 
Overall, I do believe there was a fault with the clutch on Mrs Ns car. However Im not 
satisfied this was present at the point of supply and that it made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. Therefore it wouldnt be fair to ask GCC to cover the cost of repair or to unwind the 
finance agreement as if it never existed. They offered to contribute £200 towards the cost of 
the repair or pay for an independent report and given the circumstances, I believe this was 
fair.
I understand Mrs N has experienced many personal and financial issues while bringing this 
complaint. I appreciate this wouldve been a very difficult time for her which is likely to 
explain why she chose to voluntarily terminate the agreement. As mentioned above, as she 
is likely to remain responsible for the outstanding balance on the finance agreement, I would 
expect GCC to treat her positively and sympathetically if she is in financial difficulty. Mrs N 
should also let them know if she is struggling so they can look at what they may be able to 
do to help.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman