DRN-3692691
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the car she acquired through Close Brothers Limited (CBL) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the car and cancel the finance agreement.
What happened
Mrs P entered a conditional sale agreement in January 2021 to acquire a used car. She paid 
a deposit of £199, and the balance of £2,600 was to be paid through the credit agreement 
which was set up over a 36-month term. At the time of acquisition, the car had already been 
driven more than 78,000 miles and was just over 12 years old.
Mrs P says she spent more than £900 on repair costs during 2021, and the cars turbo failed 
at the end of the year. She says her local repair centre, who Ill refer to as H, told her the 
fault with the turbo was likely developing at the point of sale. Mrs P told us:
she first experienced problems with the turbo within three months of acquiring the car 
and she asked CBL to pay for it to be repaired;
H notified her of lengthy gaps in the cars servicing history, which may have 
contributed, in part, to the issues with the turbo; it said regular servicing wouldve 
ensured the turbo was being supplied with the right level of good oil; and it said that 
further strain on the turbo through continued use of the car caused its ultimate total 
failure; 
the car has been in for repairs and servicing on at least three occasions, and the 
latest quote shes received for repairs is for £1,000; this means the repairs bills for 
the car will total more than shes had to pay in monthly repayments to CBL, and is 
almost equal to the cars initial sales price;
in addition to the turbo failure; theres been issues with the rocker cover and injectors 
being covered in oil; a worn actuator; fault codes relating to the EGR valve and 
crankshaft; a corroded rear shock absorber; corroded door sills; and failure of the 
parking brake;
Mrs P says the car sold to her was not of satisfactory quality and wasnt fit for purpose at the 
time of sale. She wants the hire purchase agreement to be terminated and wants a refund of 
the money shes spent on repairs. Mrs P says the car is no longer roadworthy, and although 
shes had to insure it, its been SORN and stored off-road.
CBL rejected this complaint. It says it cant accept Mrs Ps rejection of the car because any 
fault with the turbo was not present or developing at the point of supply. It said it had 
commissioned an independent inspection of the car and the subsequent report confirmed 
the fault wasnt present or developing at the point of supply because the vehicle wouldnt 
have been able to travel the miles driven by Mrs P.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said initially that he didnt think it should be 
upheld. He acknowledged that there was clearly a fault with the turbo, but he said the 
independent report was persuasive  the fault with the turbo wasnt present or developing at 
the point of supply, and Mrs P had been able to drive the car for nearly 6,000 miles.
Mrs P disagreed and commissioned a further independent inspection. H had previously 
indicated to her that parts of the exhaust system and diesel particulate filter (DPF) had 
been tampered with, something Mrs P knew nothing about. So, she asked for the 
independent inspection to focus on this and the effect this wouldve had on the car.
This second independent inspection persuaded our investigator to reconsider his findings. 
He concluded that the report showed that the exhaust system and DPF had indeed been 
tampered with, and the associated corrosion on the welding confirmed that this had taken 
place prior to Mrs Ps acquisition of the vehicle.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ps complaint because the car was not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply, and he asked CBL to put things right.
This Service has not heard from CBL as to whether it accepts or rejects our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with out investigator that this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs P is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBL is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  CBL in this case  had a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mrs P was of satisfactory 
quality or not. There doesnt appear to be any disagreement between parties over whether 
the car has a fault  everyone accepts the turbo has failed; its no longer driveable and the 
car is being stored off-road. The difference in opinion between Mrs P and CBL relates to 
whether the fault was present or developing at the point of supply, and its on this question 
that I must reach a conclusion.
Having considered things most carefully, including both independent reports, I, like our 
investigator, dont think the car supplied to Mrs P was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. Ive summarised the relevant points from both independent reports below:
Report 1  commissioned by CBLThe inspector confirmed that the car started immediately and without issue. It was driven for 
around 200m and exhibited a lack of performance consistent with a turbocharger fault. 
Taking account of an historic fault code from April 2021, they said in their opinion, the 
reduced performance was a result of a fault with the turbocharger, which would not have 
been present or developing at finance inception. They said the fault developed due to 
general in-service wear and deterioration.
Report 2  commissioned by Mrs P
The inspector confirmed that they had undertaken a general vehicle condition check which 
showed that the car was in a fair and reasonable general condition. They reported that there 
was evidence of oil seepage in various areas of the engine compartment and components 
on the engine and that steam cleaning would be required to determine the exact source of 
leakage and the appropriate repair action.
The inspector reported that the turbo induction hose had collapsed and was split, and that 
upon removal, severe damage to the impeller blades caused by long-term in-service wear 
was evident.
The inspector also noted that the top section of the DPF unit was clearly exposed and 
showing unquestionably that the unit has been tampered with  the top end plate centre pipe 
shows a poor previous, non-standard welded pipe section, consistent with the removal of the 
inner core filter of the DPF for operational purposes.
The inspector did concur with the first independent report and said that the turbocharger 
wear was the direct result of normal in-service age-related wear and tear. But they noted that 
the wear may have been accelerated by poor oil quality caused fuel contamination within the 
oil as a result of an issue with the vehicles DPF system.
The inspector said that there is no doubt that the DPF canister has undergone a reweld, 
and the level of corrosion in and around the DPF weld leads us to the conclusion that the 
DPF has been tampered with at some point in the past that precedes the date of sale.
Tampering with the DPF would prevent the vehicle meeting minimum MOT standards and 
from being fully complianttherefore, in our considered opinion, this vehicle was not sold in 
a condition that was fit for regular use on the public highway.
Taking both these reports into account, Ive concluded that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when it was first supplied to Mrs P. I say this because the two separate inspections 
do not contradict one another; in the first report, the inspector was only instructed to examine 
the turbo, in the second case, the inspector was given a wider brief. The second inspector 
agrees with the findings in report one, but identifies other issues highlighted by Mrs P to CBL 
and confirms that these pre-date the supply of the car to Mrs P.
I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Given that the 
car has been looked at a number of times and is neither roadworthy nor movable, I dont 
think any further attempts at repair seem reasonable. So, I think Mrs P should be able to 
reject the car.
I need to consider that Mrs P has had some use of the car, but that shes not been able to 
use it since January 2022. Im also going to take into consideration what shes told us about 
the worry and anxiety that this fault has caused her since she first acquired the car, and the 
inconvenience shes been caused; shes had to car-share, borrow her husbands car, and 
her parents car. So, Im going to ask CBL to pay her some compensation in recognition of this. Im also going to instruct CBL to reimburse her for some of the consequential costs 
shes incurred.
Mrs P says shes had to insure the car, even though shes been unable to use it. Whilst I 
understand the cost and frustration of this, the insurance has provided peace of mind by 
covering her against losses associated with fire or theft. Accordingly, I dont think CBL needs 
to reimburse her insurance costs.
Putting things right
I direct Close Brothers Limited to put things right by doing the following:
End the credit agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ps credit file in relation to this agreement.
Collect the car, if it hasnt already been collected, at no cost to Mrs P and at a time 
and date suitable for her. 
Refund Mrs P her deposit of £199
Refund all monthly payments made from 6 January 2022 to the date of settlement.
Pay 8% simple interest from the time these payments were made to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mrs P £195  this is the cost she paid for the independent report.
Pay Mrs P £50.38  this is the cost she paid for the initial diagnostic report.
Pay Mrs P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Close Brothers Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman