DRN-3444203
The complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc failed to explain what would happen if he 
repaid his credit card balances.
What happened
Mr G has two credit cards with Capital One. The first was opened in 2015 and the second 
opened in 2017. Since September 2018 Capital One has sent regular letters to Mr G as both 
credit cards were in a persistent debt position. Capital Ones letters reflected new regulations 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
In March 2021 Mr G agreed to enter into an arrangement with Capital One for both cards. 
The payment plan involved increasing the monthly payments for each card over an extended 
period and closing both to new spending. 
Mr G sent secure messages and spoke with Capital One about his options if the persistent 
debt balances were repaid in full. Mr G has told us Capital One confirmed it wouldnt take 
action to reduce his credit limit and that the cards would be reactivated if he cleared the 
outstanding balance. 
Mr G completed two balance transfers from another credit card. Mr G has explained the 
other credit card charges a higher rate of interest. After Capital One received the first 
payment it wrote to Mr G to say it was increasing his contractual minimum payment from 1% 
of the outstanding balance to 3%. 
After Capital One received the second balance transfer payment it wrote to Mr G to advise 
his contractual minimum payment was also going up, as set out above. Capital One also 
said it had taken the decision to reduce Mr Gs credit limit from £3,250 to £2,100.
Mr G complained and Capital One has issued a number of final responses. In one final 
response, Capital One said Mr Gs new spending correctly suspended due to persistent 
debt. Capital One later agreed it hadnt told Mr G it may reduce his credit limit once the 
persistent debt had been repaid. And Capital One said it had incorrectly told Mr G that his 
minimum payment would remain the same 1% of the outstanding balance but it increased to 
3%. Capital One paid Mr G £150 in recognition of its error. 
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Gs complaint. They agreed Capital One had 
given Mr G the wrong information about his minimum payment but thought the £150 
compensation it paid was a fair way to resolve his complaint. Mr G asked to appeal and said 
hes concerned about the ongoing cost of clearing the persistent debt due to the higher 
interest rate hes now paying. Mr G also said hes concerned that his chances of obtaining 
another credit card mayve been impacted because hes now using a higher proportion of his 
available credit. As Mr G asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One accepts it shouldve given more information to Mr G concerning its potential 
actions once the balances on his cards were cleared and I agree. I understand Mr G wasnt 
in full possession of the facts when he made the decision to clear his balance. But I think its 
fair to note that Mr G cleared the smaller balance of the first card on 11 March 2021 and 
Capital One wrote to him on 13 March 2021 to explain his minimum payment was going to 
increase. A complaint was raised the following day about the increased minimum payment. 
Mr G then carried out a balance transfer for the larger balance on 24 March 2021. But by 
that point Mr G was aware that his minimum payment could increase as had already 
happened on the other card. Given the balance transfer for the second card wasnt 
completed until around 10 days later, I think Mr G was aware that the minimum payment 
could increase. On balance, I dont think the increase of the minimum payment was the 
deciding factor concerning whether Mr G cleared the persistent debt on his credit cards. So 
whilst Capital One didnt give Mr G the full facts, Im not persuaded hes in a worse position 
overall. 
I understand the credit limit reduction on Mr Gs second credit card was a surprise as Capital 
One hadnt specifically warned him it could take that step. I can see the credit limit was 
reduced which meant that of the £2,825 Mr G repaid via a balance transfer, he was only able 
to transfer back £1,941. Mr G has explained the remaining balance is now held on another, 
more expensive, credit card. But I have to take the terms of the credit card into account and 
they allow Capital One to review a credit limit and takes steps to reduce it at any time. At this 
point, Mr Gs balance had been close the agreed limit and in persistent debt for some time 
and, in my view, it was reasonable for Capital One to review it once the balance reduced. 
I also think its fair to say that I havent found evidence that Capital One applied pressure on 
Mr G to clear his balances via a lump sum. Capital One confirmed new spending wasnt 
available whilst a persistent debt payment plan was in place and that it wouldnt send 
replacement cards. Mr G enquired whether the spending facilities would be reactivated once 
the persistent debt balances were repaid. Capital One confirmed they would, which was 
correct, albeit with a lower credit limit. 
Capital One apologised to Mr G and paid him £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as I havent found that Capital One acted unfairly 
when increased the minimum payment and reduced his credit limit Im not telling it to take 
further action. As Im satisfied Capital One has already paid a settlement that fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G, Im not telling it to increase the 
award or do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Capital One (Europe) plc has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman