DRN-3104348
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited has declined a claim for damage 
caused by a leak under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J employed a contractor to carry out improvement works to their bathroom and 
kitchen. Around this time a leak was noticed affecting both rooms. Initially it was thought this 
was coming from their neighbours property upstairs. But it was later found that a tree had 
grown into the wall and roof of their kitchen extension. Their contractors found roots 
penetrating through into the kitchen and bathroom, which they thought was causing the leak.
Mr and Mrs J say their contractor suggested replacing the kitchen roof to resolve the 
problem. They also told them the extension hadnt been constructed properly and warned 
that the electrics posed a danger because of the leak.
Fairmead declined the claim. It says the leak was caused by tree roots growing through the 
wall of Mr and Mrs Js property. It relied on two exclusions from the policy terms to decline 
the claim. These were faulty workmanship of the kitchen extension and the gradual event of 
tree roots growing through the walls. Mr and Mrs J thought the leak was covered by their 
policy and so referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She referred to Mr and Mrs Js contractors view 
that the extension hadnt been constructed properly. She felt that this supported Fairmeads 
decision to decline the claim based on the exclusion term for faulty workmanship.
Mr and Mrs J werent happy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I can understand that Mr and 
Mrs J will be disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mr and Mrs J were first alerted to a leak by their contractors. I understand this was affecting 
the electrics to their fridge/freezer. The possibility of a leak from the upstairs neighbours 
property was explored, but no leak was found. The contractor, when inspecting the kitchen 
extension roof, then found a tree growing into the bathroom and kitchen walls. The 
contractor thought the leak had occurred because of damage caused by the roots.
Mr and Mrs J say their contractor quoted £1,650 to replace the extension roof. They say their 
engineer had also noticed lots of issues indicating the extension wasnt constructed properly. 
The policy terms, in the section titled What is not covered, say:
Under this policy we will not pay for:
1. Gradual events  Any loss damage or liability arising from wear and tear that you 
know is happening gradually over time. 
And: 
12.Defects and faults  Any direct loss or damage due to defective design, defective 
materials, faulty materials, faulty workmanship or failure to follow manufacturers 
instructions.
I have thought about whether its fair for Fairmead to decline the claim by relying on these 
exclusions. 
Mr and Mrs J havent supplied a report from their contractor or engineer detailing what the 
issues are with the construction of the kitchen extension. They have made it clear that the 
contractor/engineer believe there are issues with how it was built. But I note from later 
correspondence with our investigator, that Mr J says the leak didnt happen because of 
issues with the construction of the extension. He says the leak was caused by the plant 
penetration through the kitchen and bathroom walls. 
Mr and Mrs J have supplied photos of the tree growing out of the wall above the flat roof of 
the kitchen extension. This was visible from the garden area to the rear of the house. The 
tree is clearly growing through the mortar between the bricks, into the wall and is quite large. 
I note their comments that the roots penetrated the bathroom and kitchen walls, and this 
allowed water to track through to the inside of their property. 
A building insurance policy is intended to guard against the impact of sudden events. Not 
gradual causes that develop over time. The tree shown in the photos has been growing for 
some time to reach the size it was when the leak was discovered. The roots penetrating 
through into the wall are quite thick, with a large section of the mortar missing where it enters 
the wall.  
The policy terms exclude any loss resulting from gradual events. I think its reasonable for 
Fairmead to conclude a tree growing through the walls of Mr and Mrs Js house is a gradual 
event. This has not happened suddenly. This means the cause of the damage is excluded. 
I note Fairmead also declined the claim under the exclusion for Defects and faults. It says 
this related to faulty workmanship of the kitchen extension. Although they did mention this at 
the time of their claim, Mr and Mrs J have since maintained the tree is the cause of the 
damage, not the construction of the extension. 
I have thought about whether this impacts on the claim being declined. However, its clear 
both the gradual damage caused by the tree growth, and faulty workmanship, are excluded 
under the policy terms. Fairmead relied on both exclusions when it declined the claim. So, I 
dont think this does impact, given neither of these causes are covered under the policy.        
I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs J find themselves in because of the damage 
caused to their property and the need to arrange for repairs. But for the reasons discussed, I 
think Fairmead acted fairly in relying on the exclusions set out in the policy terms to decline 
their claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve this complaint
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman