DRN-4453351
The complaint
Mr H complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and the mis-advice he was provided 
regarding the insurance on his hire car.
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. In the summer of 2023, Mr H made 
a claim on this policy, and UKI instructed a separate company, who Ill refer to as A, to 
provide Mr H with a hire car.
During the repair process, there was a delay which meant Mr Hs own car couldnt be 
returned to him when he expected. And on 8 July 2023, Mr H was told by A that the 
insurance on his hire car had lapsed, despite his own car still being with the repairer. So, Mr 
H was directed to UKI to extend the hire period.
Mr H accepts the hire was confirmed to have been still in place within a few hours of him 
contacting UKI. But he was unhappy that the inconvenience needing to contact UKI had 
caused him and his family, as well as the upset caused by him believing his wife had been 
driving the hire car earlier that day without insurance. So, he raised a complaint.
UKI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained Mr H was insured to 
drive the hire car on 8 July, even though A had told him he wasnt. So, while they recognised 
the inconvenience he was caused, they didnt think Mr H, or his family, were put in a position 
of risk that required them to do anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, 
so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They were satisfied Mr H, and his 
wife, were insured to drive the hire car for all of 8 July, and up until 10 July inclusive. So, 
they didnt think Mr H and his family were put at risk when using the car that day. But they 
did think Mr H wouldve been inconvenienced by needing to contact UKI to confirm this, and 
that he wouldve been worried about the risk he felt his wife and family were placed in until 
this confirmation was provided. So, they recommended UKI pay Mr H £25 to recognise this.
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt think the £25 recommendation was enough to compensate him, 
considering the current cost of living crisis. He also didnt think it fairly recognised his 
concerns about UKI from a previous claim in 2022, or the way UKI handled his complaint 
overall. So, he thought this compensatory amount should be increased. Our investigator 
considered Mr Hs comments, but their recommendation remained the same. Mr H continued 
to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
clearly exactly what Ive been able to consider. I note Mr H has referred to concerns about 
the way a previous claim was handled, and he wants this to be factored into the impact of 
this complaint. But this isnt something Im able to do, as my role is to consider the individual 
circumstances of this complaint only, and the claim it has arisen from. I also note Mr H wants 
our service to factor in UKIs handling of his complaint, but complaint handling is an 
unregulated activity and so, falls outside of our services jurisdiction. So, the way UK dealt 
with Mr Hs complaint hasnt impacted the decision Ive reached.
I also want to make it clear that, in line with the rules we work within which are set by the 
industry regulator, I am only able to consider the direct impact to Mr H as the policyholder. 
This is because it is Mr H who is UKIs customer. So, while I recognise Mr Hs concerns 
about the impact on his family, Im unable to award any compensation for this directly. 
Instead, Im only able to consider the emotional impact this wouldve had on Mr H.
Ive considered all the evidence available to me. And from UKIs system notes, I can see Mr 
H did call UKI on 8 July 2023 to ask for the insurance of his hire to be extended, around the 
time his testimony states he was told by A that his insurance had lapsed. And UKI 
themselves have stated Mr H did have insurance in place for the entire hire period, up to 10 
July. So, based on this, while I havent seen evidence that shows A did definitively mis-
advise Mr H, on the balance of probability I think it's reasonable for me to assume they did. 
And, as A were acting as an agent of UKI, I think it's fair for me to say UKI were ultimately 
responsible for the advice A provided. So, as I think A did mis-advise Mr H, I do think Mr H 
was treated unfairly. And because of this, Ive then thought about what I think UKI should do 
to put things right. 
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr H back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had UKI acted fairly in the first instance. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that Mr H and his wife always had valid insurance in place to drive the hire car. So, while I 
appreciate there wouldve been around two hours while Mr H waited for UKI to confirm this, I 
dont think Mr H or his wife at any point drove the car while in a position of risk.
But I do think that it wouldve been worrying for Mr H to think that his wife had been driving 
the car without insurance for the few hours it took UKI to confirm this wasnt the case. And I 
recognise during the time it took UKI to confirm this, Mr Hs family had appointments he 
states they were unable to attend. Again, while I cant consider the impact to anyone but Mr 
H, I do think he wouldve been caused some frustration by this, alongside the inconvenience 
of needing to call UKI.
Our investigator recommended that UKI pay Mr H £25 to recognise the above. And I think 
this recommendation is a fair one, that falls within our services approach and the range of 
what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward.
This is because I think it recognises there was a mistake A made, that had an impact on Mr 
H. But I think it also takes into consideration the swift amount of time in which UKI was able 
to allay Mr Hs concerns and confirm the insurance had always been in place, as well as the 
fact a lot of the inconvenience Mr H has referred to relates to his family members rather than 
himself as the policyholder. So, Im directing UKI to pay Mr H £25.
I understand this isnt the total outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr H I do recognise that there is a cost of living crisis and that he feels a £25 payment considering 
this doesnt feel like a proportionate payment.
But crucially, this payment isnt intended to reimburse Mr H for any financial losses, as none 
have been evidenced. So, this payment isnt intended to cover any losses Mr H incurred and 
so, I dont think it relates directly to the current cost of living climate. Instead, it is intended to 
directly address the emotional impact on Mr H due to the mistake UKI are responsible for. 
And as Ive explained above, I think the £25 is relative to this impact, considering the swift 
time in which UKI was able to rectify it by explaining the insurance was, and always had 
been, in place on the hire car.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint about U K Insurance Limited and I 
direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr H £25 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman