DRN-3734453
The complaint
Mr D complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse £25,750 he lost when he fell victim to 
an investment trading scam. He was led to believe he was investing in and trading with 
Bitcoin. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She was satisfied HSBC ought to have 
intervened on the fourth payment made; it was the second payment to the same merchant in 
one day and was unusual spending for the account. She asked it to reimburse the 
transactions which had been made from Mr Ds credit card account from that point on  
totalling £22,500. She also endorsed HSBCs offer of £250 compensation for the delays it 
caused in handling Mr Ds claim. 
Mr D accepted the outcome, but HSBC did not. It didnt think if it intervened on the fourth 
payment that Mr D would have heeded any warning. It also felt that any compensation 
should be reduce by 50% as Mr D doesnt appear to have carried out any due diligence and 
so has contributed to his losses.  
Mr D also complains about losses suffered from another HSBC account to the same scam. 
That matter is being decided separately by me. But as both cases involve the same scam, 
neither party should be surprised by any similarities in the decisions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only briefly summarised the background and arguments above, I have read 
and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the investigators 
findings for the following reasons:
Mr D saw an advert on television to trade with Expert Trader, which was endorsed by 
a well-known consumer champion. He was sent a link and was told to trade in 
Bitcoin. Mr D looked at their website and was persuaded Expert Trader were 
genuine.
Mr D authorised all of the transactions, even if he was tricked into doing so. And 
whilst he didnt intend for his money to go to scammers, he is initially presumed liable 
for the loss. There also doesnt appear to be any dispute he has been scammed. The 
consumer champion has come out publicly to say he doesnt endorse these types of 
merchants. And there is a lot of people reporting similar tactics to those Mr D 
experienced, on forums, and who also lost money.  
HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud or scams; and in some situations, 
make additional checks before processing payments or decline them altogether to 
protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams.
I have looked at the operation of Mr Ds account in the months leading up the scam. I 
think it fair to say Mr D doesnt usually spend large sums of money from the account. 
However, I do need to bear in mind that it isnt unusual for credit cards to be used 
precisely for that purpose - larger spends.  Given that, I agree with the investigator 
that I dont believe the first three payments ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud 
alert systems. However, I agree the fourth payment for £3,000 was unusual for the 
account, even if the previous payments had been spaced apart. This was the second 
sizeable transaction to the same merchant on the same day. And it was to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. Furthermore, the payments had been increasing in size, 
since the first payment made just over a month before. This is typical of this type of 
scam. Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied HSBCs systems ought to have 
triggered an alert and payments paused pending further intervention  such as 
making enquiries or giving a scam warning.
It appears HSBC might have intervened on the final payment, but it isnt clear why or 
that Mr D was questioned about it. But Ive not delved into this more, as that payment 
was over four months later, and I think it ought to have intervened much sooner. 
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr D about the 
payments, I have no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. It 
could have provided information on the steps a customer can take to ensure, so far 
as is reasonably possible, they are dealing with a legitimate merchant.  And it could 
have drawn on its knowledge about the high-risk associated with crypto-assets, the 
potential for fraud and provided a scam warning. After all, Action Fraud and the 
regulator has been reporting on this type of scam since 2018, intelligence it ought to 
have taken notice of. Im satisfied Mr D would have listened to a warning from his 
trusted bank, particularly as this was early on in the scam and three months before 
Mr D was able to make a withdrawal of £2,000 (into his current account). I dont think 
he was so far under the spell that he would have continued regardless. Im satisfied a 
warning from HSBC would likely have exposed the scam and caused Mr D to stop 
trading, thereby preventing further loss of £22,500. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr D bears some responsibility for his losses, as 
HSBC has argued. This is particularly important given it doesnt appear Mr D did 
much, if any, independent research into the merchant. However, having conducted 
my own research, aside from a handful of comments on a forum about peoples 
dealings with this business, there was very little from the time to indicate it was 
operating a scam. So Im not persuaded Mr Ds lack of due diligence has led to his 
losses. 
I agree with the investigator that Mr D didnt enjoy rights under s75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 or through a chargeback, as Mr d didnt pay the scam merchant 
directly.  However, I do agree that the offer made by HSBC for its delay in handling 
the claim is fair - £250.  Mr D had reported the scam across both of his accounts at 
the same time, but this was left for many months without investigation which 
necessitated him chasing for a response. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to:
Reimburse Mr D £22,500 representing his loss from the fourth payment onwards; 
and
Pay Mr D £250 compensation for the delays in handling his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman