DRN-2157914
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has not downgraded her 
account despite her asking it to do so on numerous occasions.
What happened
Miss W says that she experienced financial difficulties in 2019, and decided she didnt need 
the 123 account anymore. Miss W says that Santander refunded a number of account fees. 
But says Santander told her shed need to go to branch to close the account. Miss W says 
she was unable to go to a branch due to work commitments. As Miss W had not 
downgraded or closed the account, she continued to incur account fees on the 123 account.
Miss W says she does not see why she should pay £5 per month for something she did not 
qualify for and she says Santander wont switch or close her account.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has been 
provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Looking at the correspondence provided, I can see that, following Miss Ws complaint, 
Santander sent an email on 5 October 2019. This explained that Miss W would need to call 
Santander if she wanted to change her account. But it did offer to credit her account with £50 
to cover the account fees shed paid over the last year or so. Miss W replied by email to say 
that she tried calling but no one could help her, but accepted the £50 offer and stated she 
wanted her account downgraded. I can see Santander tried calling Miss W twice more on 
the same day, but could not get through, so sent another email confirming that shed need to 
call Santander, if she wanted her account changed.
I understand that Miss W then emailed Santander on 3 December 2019 and explained that 
shed tried calling Santander but was on hold for lengthy periods of time. She said it was 
irresponsible that Santander was still charging her for her account. Santander responded on 
the 6 December 2019 and explained that the monthly account fee will continue to be 
deducted from the account for as long as the account remains a 123 account. This email 
explained that the 123 Account would need to be closed and another account opened. It 
explained this could be done either in branch or online. Santander offered to credit the 
account with further £30 for previously explaining that she could call up to do this.
Santander then issued a response on 13 December 2019 and explained that to change the 
account Miss W would need to open a basic account online and then close the existing 123 
account. It said that if she wanted to change the type of account, e.g. to an Everyday current 
Account, it may be able to do this over the phone. Santander concluded that as it had 
already refunded £80 of account fees, it did not agree to refund any more.
Miss W then contacted Santander again in February 2020 and complained that she was still 
being charged for the 123 account, even though she was not using the benefits. Miss W said 
the fees were putting her into an unarranged overdraft and she cant afford to hold for 30 
minutes at a time and said it is inconvenient to go into a branch. Santander responded by 
saying it had already looked into matters and confirmed that if Miss W wanted to close the 
account, she would need to bring it to a credit balance first. But Miss W refused to do so, as 
the only reason it was taken into an overdrawn balance was because of the account fees, 
and she felt that Santander should not still being charging her for the account.
I understand it was confirmed in June 2020 that Miss W could downgrade the 123 account to 
a 123 Lite account online, but that account still incurred a £1 monthly charge. It was also 
confirmed that Miss W could open other (fee-free) accounts online, and then once she has 
done that, Santander would then be able to arrange for the 123 account to be closed  
providing it was brought to a credit balance. But again Miss W refused to bring the 123 
account to a credit balance and said that she would let the account fees accrue on the 
account.
I think I should first point out that, when Miss W agreed to the account, she also agreed to 
pay the monthly fee for the account, for as long as she held it. And it was for Miss W, not 
Santander, to decide if the account remained suitable for her circumstances. Therefore, I 
dont think Santander was being unreasonable in saying that the fees will apply regardless of 
whether Miss W was getting any benefit from having the account or not. So I dont think 
Santander should refund Miss W the 123 account fees, solely because, as she says, she 
was no longer using the account. 
But I think Santanders responses to the complaint were not as clear as they couldve been. 
Santander initially said that Miss W had to call to change her account. Then it said she could 
close her account and open a new one online, or in branch. And offered Miss W £30 for 
previously saying it could be done over the phone. But then issued another response to say 
she would need to open a new basic account online and close her existing one - but if she 
wanted to change the type of account, she may be able to do this over the phone.
I have to say, I think its unreasonable that Santander was unable to give Miss W a straight 
answer on what is a very straightforward matter. Overall, I thought Santanders initial 
responses couldve done a better job in explaining the downgrading processes. So I do get 
Miss Ws frustration. 
But having said that, I can see that Santander did try and contact Miss W in October 2019 to 
downgrade the account, but unfortunately didnt get through to her. And although Miss W 
said that attending branch was inconvenient for her, since December 2019, Santander has 
consistently said that she could open a fee-free account online (to replace the 123 account), 
but for whatever reason, chose not to do so. Furthermore, it seems that a large part of why matters have continued for as long as they 
have done, is because Miss W has not chosen to take the options presented to her by 
Santander  that is to downgrade her 123 account herself to a 123 Lite account online 
(which is £1 per month), or open an account of her choosing online and bring the 123 
account back to a credit balance and then contact Santander to arrange for the 123 account 
to be closed. It seems that Miss W did try calling up in late 2019, but I cant say that 
Santander was being unreasonable because she was on hold in a queue  although again, I 
do understand how frustrating this can be.
Its also the case that Miss W has had opportunities to get the account closed. For example 
in June 2020, she only had to credit just under £5 to get the account to a credit balance and 
the account couldve been closed. But she chose not to. And I dont think her reasons for 
refusing to bring the account to a credit balance are necessarily reasonable, given that the 
fees were correctly applied to the account. 
The reason Miss W says that she should not have to pay the monthly fee is because she 
was no longer using the account  yet there were transactions (in addition to returned direct 
debits) on the account up until March 2020. So it looks like she was still using the account. 
And just because Miss W chose to stop using the account, does not mean that the monthly 
account fees should no longer apply. 
I note that Miss W has mentioned experiencing financial difficulties. But Santander confirmed 
it had refunded or reimbursed over £600 in account charges. And it refunded £80 worth of 
account fees because it had given unclear information about how to go about removing the 
123 account. So Im satisfied that it was taking reasonable steps to help Miss W out with her 
financial difficulties and was giving her options if she no longer wanted the fee-paying 123 
account.
Therefore, having weighed everything up, I certainly think Santander couldve done a better 
job in explaining, from the outset, what steps Miss W could take to downgrade her 123 
account. But, Im also mindful that Santander has already paid Miss W £80 worth of account 
fees  which amounts to 16 months worth of account fees. So I think this represents a 
reasonable award to reflect the shortcomings in Santanders efforts to explain its account 
downgrading procedures. And I think it covers a reasonable period of fees, given how long it 
took Santander to give the correct answer on its processes. Therefore I dont think it is 
required to pay any further redress in relation to this matter.
Finally, I understand that Miss W still has the account. It is up to Miss W what she chooses 
to do with the account. But I would like to remind Miss W, as the adjudicator did, that if an 
overdrawn balance remains on the 123 account, this could have an adverse impact on her 
credit file and possibly her ability to obtain credit in the future.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Santander UK Plc needs to do anything 
more to put matters right in relation to this complaint. 
    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman