DRN-3731449
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs P was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with 
Hitachi. She paid an initial rental of £1,282.82 and the agreement was for 36 months with 35 
monthly rental payments of £427.61.
Mrs P complained to Hitachi that she started to experience issues with the car shortly after it 
was delivered. There was an issue with the sports bar fitting, which was repaired, and issues 
with a rattle from the rear door and an unsecure load liner, which havent been fixed as far 
as Im aware. Mrs P was also unhappy that she was without her car for two weeks while the 
sports bar was being repaired, and that shed had to hire a car during this time.
Hitachi recommended that Mrs P visit her local dealership to have the other issues 
assessed. They also compensated her £40 for the mileage the car had done while at the 
dealership being repaired. But they didnt think they were responsible for Mrs Ps hire car 
costs, as shed chosen to hire the car. Mrs P wasnt happy with Hitachis response, and she 
brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, given the faults with the car happened shortly after it was supplied 
to Mrs P, then it wasnt of a satisfactory quality. And he thought that Hitachi were responsible 
for the repair costs. He also thought Hitachi should refund Mrs P the equivalent of 50% of 
one monthly rental payment, to compensate her for the time she was without the car, as well 
as pay her £150 compensation.
However, the investigator didnt think that Hitachi were responsible for Mrs Ps hire car costs, 
as shed been given the choice to have the sports bar fixed immediately, when no courtesy 
car was available, or wait a few weeks and have it repaired when a courtesy car could be 
supplied. And, as Mrs P had chosen the immediate repair, the hiring of a car was her choice.
Hitachi didnt respond to the investigators view. Mrs P did and, while she agreed with most 
of what the investigator had said, she didnt agree that her hire car costs werent covered. 
She said that she wasnt told that she could wait for a courtesy car, as she would have taken 
this option. And, while the investigator explained that he couldnt share the evidence 
showing shed been given this option, as it was a screenshot from Hitachis system and 
contained confidential information; Mrs P said that Hitachi should be able to provide 
evidence of safe receipt of the email sent to me explaining her options. And, without this, 
she couldnt agree that shed been given the option of waiting for a courtesy car.
Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs P was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Hitachi are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Hitachi can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs P to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs P took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Hitachi to put this right.
Ive not seen any evidence that there was a fault with the car, or that the faults presented 
themselves shortly after the car was supplied to Mrs P. But these facts dont seem to be 
disputed. As explained above, given the timescale in which the faults appeared, its 
reasonable to expect Hitachi to put things right.
The car went in for repair on 10 March 2021 and was returned to Mrs P 14-days later. 
However, only the issue with the sports bar had been fixed. The dealership has said this is 
because Mrs P only raised the issues about the door rattle and load liner with the third-party 
who collected the car for repair. But I dont consider this to be relevant  the dealership did 
over 300 miles in the car while it was in for repair, so the additional issues wouldve been 
apparent. And shouldve been fixed.
Where there are still issues after a repair, as is the case here, the CRA gives Mrs P the right 
to reject the car. However, in this instance, I dont think that allowing this would be fair. I say 
this because of the amount of time Mrs P has had the car, that she hasnt asked to reject the 
car during that period, and that when Hitachi offered the option of having these items 
repaired she was agreeable to this (subject to having a courtesy car). As such, in these 
circumstances, Im satisfied that, if the repairs havent already taken place, then Hitachi 
should arrange for this, at no cost to Mrs P.
Whats more, Hitachi have already paid Mrs P £40, the equivalent to more than 350 miles at 
the excess mileage rate stated in the agreement. And I think it was fair for them to do this, 
given the additional mileage done by the dealership.Turning now to what happened when the car was being repaired. Ive seen Hitachis case 
notes, and these cover a conversation they had with the dealership on 26 March 2021. And 
this says that Mrs P was offered a courtesy car by the dealership while the car was being 
repaired, but this wouldnt be available until 12 April 2021. I dont think this was 
unreasonable as the UK was subject to a national lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic, with 12 April 2021 being the earliest date on which restrictions for businesses 
were being lifted.
I appreciate Mrs P has asked to see a copy of the email Hitachi sent her, given her the 
option of waiting for a courtesy car. However, its clear from the case notes that this was a 
verbal discussion between the dealership and Mrs P, so no email wouldve been sent. And 
Hitachi werent aware of what was happening until after the repairs had been completed. As 
such, I dont think its reasonable to have expected Hitachi to have emailed Mrs P.
While I cant say what was discussed between the dealership and Mrs P, if Mrs P needed a 
courtesy car, I wouldve expected her to have asked for one. And, when one wasnt made 
available, given the lockdown restrictions in place at the time, I consider it reasonable that a 
conversation wouldve taken place about the availability of a courtesy car as an when the 
lockdown restrictions were lifted. As such, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs P did 
discuss a courtesy car with the dealership, but chose to go ahead with the repairs 
immediately because she couldnt foresee herself needing the car given the national 
restrictions in place.
Moreover, Ive seen that Mrs P didnt hire a car for the whole period the repairs were taking 
place. Which again points to her not initially seeing a need to use a car during the repair 
period. As such, I wont be asking Hitachi to cover the hire car costs.
But this doesnt alter the fact that Mrs P was paying for a car she didnt have access to. And 
I agree with the investigator that she should be refunded her payments for this period. 
Additionally, I agree that Mrs P was inconvenienced by being supplied with a car that 
needed repair, and by having to sort this out. So, Im also in agreement with the investigator 
that she should be compensated for this.
Putting things right
For the reasons stated above, Hitachi should:
arrange to have the door rattle and load liner repaired, at no cost to Mrs P and at her 
earliest convenience, if this hasnt already been done; 
refund 50% of one monthly rental payment, to recognise the fact that Mrs P was 
without the car she was paying for for 14-days; 
apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Mrs P made 
the payment to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mrs P an additional £150* for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
*If Hitachi does not pay the £150 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 
days of the date on which we tell them that Mrs P accepts my final decision, then they must 
also pay 8% simple yearly interest on this amount, from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Hitachi to take off tax from this interest. Hitachi must give 
Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading 
as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman