DRN-2043149
The complaint
Mr T complains that WDP Insurance Limited have sent him faulty replacement phones when 
he claimed on his mobile phone insurance policy. 
Mr T is represented on this complaint, for ease of reading any reference to Mr T also 
includes his representative. 
What happened
Mr T contacted WDP as he needed to claim on his policy for a damaged phone. Rather than 
repairing the phone WDP sent Mr T a replacement one. A couple of weeks later Mr T 
reported the phone was glitching and freezing. WDP agreed the to replace the phone and 
sent Mr T another one. 
A few weeks later Mr T contacted WDP to say the second replacement phone was having 
the same issue. WDP agreed to replace it and sent another replacement phone. Because 
the same issues kept happening on each replacement phone, Mr T has ended up being sent 
five replacement phones. Four of these have been returned to WDP and been tested. Of the 
four tested two have found to have faults, a dot was showing on a screen on one handset 
and another had a light sensor fault. As Mr T wasnt happy with the issues he complained. 
WDP reviewed the complaint and agreed to pay £95 compensation. £45 of this was to 
compensate Mr T for being sent two faulty phones, and £50 because correspondence was 
sent to the wrong address. WDP also agreed to replace the fifth replacement phone as Mr T 
has reported the same issues with it. Mr T declined the offer and brought his complaint here. 
He said he would like WDP to provide a new phone rather than a refurbished one or buy him 
out of his phone contract. He said the phone manufacturer had inspected the phone and it 
had been repaired using non-genuine parts and been poorly refurbished. Mr T also said it 
was out of warranty and provided videos of the phone glitching and freezing. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ts complaint and recommended it was partly upheld. She 
found that while two of the handsets were faulty, WDPs inspection had said the other two 
worked normally. She also noted the diagnostics Mr T provided from the phone 
manufacturer didnt show the most recent phone hadnt been repaired properly or wasnt 
working correctly. She did agree there had been unnecessary delays in delaying with the 
claim, and thought that WDPs offer wasnt enough to compensate Mr T. Because of this she 
recommended WDP increase its offer by £100. 
WDP didnt agree, they said the increased compensation was excessive and felt a £50 
increase was fair. Mr T didnt agree, he said it would cost him £400 to buy out his phone 
contract and would like WDP to pay this. 
As neither party agreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy say, Any replacement device you receive maybe 
refurbished to our standard using original equipment manufacturer parts. I can see WDP 
have provided a refurbished phone each time Mr T has reported a fault. While the terms and 
conditions say a refurbished phone can be provided, its only fair and reasonable the 
refurbished phone works properly. 
The terms also go onto say the replacement phones will come with a 24-month warranty. 
The report Mr T provided from the manufacturer shows the most recent handset is out of 
warranty. While the handset may be out of warranty with the manufacturer, it doesnt mean 
its out of warranty with WDP. And as the warranty is with them and WDP is offering to 
replace the most recent handset Im satisfied theyre doing what they need to under the 
policy. 
Ive also looked at whether WDP have applied the terms in a fair and reasonable way. I 
appreciate Mr Ts frustration with the replacement handsets not working properly. I can also 
see the issues hes experiencing from the videos provided. But Im not persuaded this 
means all the phones are faulty. I say this because WDP have inspected four returned 
handsets and found two of them to have faults. Also, the report from the manufacturer on the 
most recent handset doesnt say its faulty or not been repaired correctly. So, Im not 
persuaded its faulty. And, as WDP have agreed to replace it Im satisfied thats a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Mr T.  
When considering the claim, Ive also looked at the impact having five replacement phones 
and needing to replace another one has had on Mr T. During the claim there have been 
delays and two faulty phones sent out. Taking these into account Im satisfied an additional 
£100 is fair compensation. I say this because Mr T has had the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience of having to keep sending phones back along with delays in receiving some 
replacement phones. When considering this and taking into account how important a phone 
is in day to day life, Im satisfied this is a fair amount. Therefore, WDP need to pay Mr T an 
additional £100 compensation on top of whats been already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. 
WDP Insurance Limited needs to send Mr T a replacement phone, in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, and pay him an additional £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman