DRN-3904998
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc applied charges to his credit card account even 
though he paid the balance on time.
What happened
Mr S says that he paid the full balance on his credit card on its due date and was advised by 
the advisor that there were no outstanding monies owed. He says four weeks later his 
statement showed that interest had been added to the account. Mr S says he spent many 
hours on the phone and, in one call, Santander offered to refund the interest, but not the 
transaction fee. He explains that another department then told him that wasnt an option, but 
Mr S feels he should also be compensated for his time and the stress caused by 
Santanders inefficiency.
Santander says it could see the incoming payment on the due date, but that this was 
returned the following day. Santander accepts that the payment was received again a day 
later, but it says that interest and charges were applied because it was then applied late to 
the account. It adds that customers are advised on their statements to allow up to one 
working day for payments to reach their credit cards.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr Ss 
statement would have said he needed to allow up to one working day for payments to be 
credited to his account. As Mr S made the payment on the due date, our investigator did not 
find Santander had made an error.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that he was assured all monies had been paid in full 
and that the payment had gone through. He said there were ample funds in his account and 
so could not understand why the payment was initially rejected or how he accrued £121 in 
interest in two days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The due date on Mr Ss credit card statement was 4 June 2022 and I notice he had a direct 
debit set up for 1 June 2022 for the minimum payment of £227.48. I have listened to the call 
on 4 June 2022 where Mr S arranged for the payment to be made to his credit card. The 
agent correctly identifies the outstanding balance as £9,085.52 (£9,313 less £227.48) and 
arranges for that amount to be transferred from Mr Ss savings account as requested. 
Towards the end of the call, the Santander agent advises Mr S that the payment may take 
one working day to reach his account and also says it has been flagged for a security check.
Santander has sent evidence that the transaction was checked, but the payment was still 
released and reached Mr Ss account within the faster payment timescales  that is the 
payment was sent on a Saturday and reached Mr Ss credit card on the Monday. As interest 
is waived only if the balance is repaid in full by the due date, interest was then charged on 
the outstanding balance for the month, not just the two days where the balance remained 
outstanding after its due date.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Santander did not make an error by allocating Mr Ss 
payment to his account on 6 June 2022, nor by charging interest as it did. I can also see that 
each credit card statement says that for payments made online or over the phone You 
should normally allow up to 1 working day for payment to be credited to your account.
I have also listened to the call Mr S made on 14 July 2022 when he discovered the interest 
charge. Theres some confusion on the call as the agents cant understand why the payment 
that was made was only £9,085.52, rather than the £9,313 they can see on the credit card 
statement balance. However, Mr S is then offered an interest refund as a goodwill gesture.
Santander has said that this offer is no longer available to Mr S because he did not agree to 
it at the time and, instead, said he wished to raise a complaint. Santander added that it 
would have needed Mr Ss consent for the refund as we only offer to refund one month of 
charges as a goodwill [gesture] which we call a once in a lifetime refund. It said it had 
reviewed the call and no error was made with the information it provided to Mr S.
As I dont consider that Santander did anything wrong when administering Mr Ss credit card, 
it would not be reasonable for me to now insist that it stands by its offer of an interest refund. 
So, in summary, I dont find Santander needs to do anything further about Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman