DRN-4519218
The complaint
Mr W complains that delays by more 2 life Ltd in progressing his application for a lifetime 
mortgage resulted in him having to pay a higher interest rate.
What happened
Mr W had an interest only mortgage which was coming to an end, so he applied to more 2 
life for a lifetime mortgage to raise funds to pay his mortgage off. There were significant 
problems with the application, which led to Mr W making a complaint. more 2 life upheld his 
complaint and offered compensation, which Mr W accepted. He then made a fresh 
application to more 2 life  this complaint is about that second application.
Mr W applied via a broker to more 2 life in April 2022. He wanted to borrow £350,000 against 
a property valuation of £800,000, and applied for a mortgage at 3.97%.
On 20 April 2022 more 2 life emailed the broker asking for confirmation that Mr Ws ex-wife 
had no interest in the property and wasnt living in it. And it asked for confirmation of where 
Mr W was living, as it said its own checks suggested Mr W wasnt living at the property.
The broker replied asking more 2 life to consult its file for the previous application. It said 
Mr W and his ex-wife Mrs W had divorced in 2008 and she had no interest in the property, 
but she was currently living there. The broker confirmed that Mr W was living in the property.
more 2 life asked whether Mrs W would be moving out of the property before completion  it 
said that having a third party live in the property fell outside its lending criteria. more 2 life 
says it didnt receive a reply to this email.
In May 2022 more 2 life asked further questions about the property, which was subject to an 
estate rentcharge. It then refused the application because it said it fell outside the lending 
criteria for the specific product Mr W had applied for. But it said it had another product 
available which might be suitable which Mr W might want to apply for.
Mr Ws broker then made a further application, and more 2 life issued an offer around two 
weeks later. This was for £347,840 at an interest rate of 4.27%. The offer included the 
following special conditions:
Mrs W was to leave the property and Mr Ws solicitors to confirm she had done so;
Mr Ws previous mortgage was to be paid off in full;
Mrs W to sign an occupiers consent form;
Mr Ws solicitor to confirm that the estate rentcharge did not include onerous terms;
Mr W to provide proof of identity, age, and residency.
The first and third conditions were contradictory, since the first required Mrs W to move out 
of the property, but the third implied she could continue living there if she signed a waiver 
form.
Mr Ws broker therefore asked more 2 life to reconsider the special conditions, and it issued 
a further mortgage offer on 27 May. The borrowing amount and interest rate remained the 
same, and this offer also included special conditions:
Mr Ws solicitor to confirm that the estate rentcharge did not include onerous terms;
Mr Ws previous mortgage was to be paid off in full;
Mr Ws solicitors to confirm that the property is registered in his sole name, and that 
Mrs W provides a written undertaking that she will leave the property before 
completion and has no interest in it.
This time, therefore, there was no mention of Mrs W signing a waiver and continuing to live 
in the property  more 2 life made clear it would not accept her continuing to live there after 
Mr W took the loan out.
Mr W called more 2 life to say that he couldnt agree to the condition that Mrs W must leave 
the property. His broker provided more information to confirm that Mr W and Mrs W had 
divorced some years ago with a financial settlement and that each owned their own property 
(though Mrs Ws was rented out). Mrs W had no claim on or interest in Mr Ws property. 
more 2 life then agreed to issue a further offer removing the special condition that Mrs W 
had to leave the property and replacing it with a condition that she would be required to sign 
an occupiers waiver. By then the valuation had expired so more 2 life also required a fresh 
valuation, but given the delay it didnt charge Mr W for this.
The new mortgage offer was issued on 28 June 2022, and the mortgage completed on 29 
July 2022.
Mr W complained. He said that more 2 life knew about the property from the earlier 
application that was the subject of the previous complaint, so it didnt need to issue and then 
withdraw the April offer. And it had taken an unreasonably long time to resolve the issue with 
Mrs W living in the property. As a result, the interest rate he was being charged had 
increased from 3.97% to 4.27%, and he had also had to pay interest to his previous 
mortgage lender for longer. He estimated that if he lived another 25 years, this would cost 
him around £27,000.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint and inviting the 
parties to respond.
My provisional decision
I said:
Ive not considered anything that happened in respect of the first application, for 
which Mr W accepted compensation from more 2 life without our involvement. In this 
decision, Im only focussing on the applications Mr W made from April 2022 onwards.
more 2 life is a lifetime mortgage lender. But it doesnt lend money from its own 
resources. It works with funders in the background, and offers mortgages funded by 
those funders but with more 2 life as the owner of the mortgage and with more 2 life 
acting as the lender. This isnt unusual in the lifetime mortgage market. The funders are essentially investors, who give money to more 2 life to lend to its customers in 
anticipation of a return on their investment in the form of a share of the mortgage 
interest income.
more 2 life offers mortgages from more than one funder. Each funder sets its own 
criteria for the sorts of risks its prepared to accept, and the sorts of situations its 
prepared to lend in, as well as the returns it expects. That means that there can be 
different qualification requirements for different loans offered by more 2 life. 
Mortgages funded by individual funders might be at a lower interest rate but be 
available in more restricted situations, or have lower maximum loan amounts, for 
example.
The first application Mr W made, which isnt part of this complaint, was for a more 2 
life product called Capital. The second application  the April 2022 one at 3.97% - 
was for a product called Flexi. And the third application, the one Mr W ended up 
taking in July 2022, was also a Capital product.
The second application, for the Flexi product in April 2022, was refused because 
Mr Ws property fell outside the lending criteria for that product. The problem was that 
the property was subject to an estate rentcharge. This is an obligation on owners of 
individual properties on an estate to pay an annual charge  generally as a 
contribution to maintenance and upkeep of communal facilities such as private roads, 
services, or communal gardens. 
The funders of the Flexi product were prepared to accept properties subject to estate 
rentcharges as security for lending, but only in certain limited circumstances. The 
problem for Mr Ws application was that the rentcharges on his estate were set and 
managed by a management company controlled by the residents  but Mr W had 
declined to be part of the management company and therefore had no influence over 
the level of the rentcharge or increases to it.
However, the funders of the Capital product were prepared to accept properties 
subject to rentcharges, even where the owner wasnt part of the management 
company.
That meant that because of the specific nature of the obligations that Mr Ws property 
was subject to, he was eligible for a Capital product but not a Flexi product.
Its therefore not unfair that more 2 life refused Mr Ws application for a Flexi product 
in May 2022 once it had established that the property was subject to rentcharges but 
Mr W wasnt part of the management company. That meant he wasnt eligible for it, 
and so it was reasonable to refuse the application.
I dont think more 2 life could reasonably have been expected to have made this 
decision any sooner than it did. Although it had some information about Mr W and his 
property from the earlier application, that earlier application was for a Capital product 
not a Flexi product, with different criteria. And so more 2 life didnt know, and couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to know, that Mr W wasnt eligible for a Flexi product 
at the time of his application in April 2022. That only came to light later as part of the 
specific checks it made following the application to check if he met the criteria for a 
Flexi product.
Once more 2 life became aware that Mr W didnt meet the requirements for a Flexi 
product but did meet the requirements for a Capital product, it didnt just decline his 
application but recommended that he re-apply for a Capital product.I think that was fair. And even if Im wrong, and more 2 life should have made that 
clear sooner than it did, this didnt result in Mr W losing out. Thats because Mr W 
was never going to get the 3.97% interest rate  that was the rate on the Flexi 
product he was never eligible for. The rate for the Capital product  4.27% - didnt 
change between April and May 2022. What this means is that the 3.97% interest rate 
Mr W initially applied for was never available to him. He didnt qualify for that product. 
He says more 2 life offered it to him in April 2022, but thats not correct  there was 
no offer for a mortgage at 3.97%; the document Mr W was given dated 19 April 2022 
was an illustration not an offer. An illustration is non-binding information about what is 
being applied for, not an acceptance of the application or offer of a loan.
The product Mr W did qualify for had an interest rate of 4.27% - and that rate was the 
same in May 2022 when he did apply for it as it was in April 2022 when he could 
have applied for it. He was never eligible for the 3.97% Flexi product, it was never 
offered to him, and therefore he has not suffered any financial loss in ending up with 
the 4.27% Capital product.
I do think more 2 life caused some delay because of the confusion around whether 
Mrs W would be living in the property or not. Mr W had always been clear that she 
would be, though she didnt have any interest in the property or the mortgage. more 2 
life changed the mortgage offer special conditions three times between 25 May and 
28 June 2022, and this therefore delayed completion on Mr Ws mortgage by around 
a month.
I think it would be fair for more 2 life to refund the additional interest Mr W had to pay 
to his previous mortgage lender as a result of this delay. And it should pay him £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused in having to repeatedly question the 
special conditions more 2 life included.
The responses to my provisional decision
more 2 life accepted my provisional decision. But Mr W didnt. He said more 2 life issued an 
illustration of a loan at 3.97% in April 2022  it shouldnt have done this if it wasnt an 
appropriate product for him. Mr W is not concerned with how more 2 life is funded. He 
wanted a lifetime mortgage and instructed his broker to apply for what was set out in the 
illustration, expecting that was the loan that would be available to him. He could have gone 
to other lenders who offered better rates but chose to continue with more 2 life in the 
expectation it already had all his information and would process the loan quickly. It was more 
2 lifes delays which meant that Mr W ended up taking a mortgage at 4.27%. This will 
substantially increase the cost over the life of the mortgage. 
Mr W said he had sent an occupiers waiver form completed by Mrs W to more 2 life in 
January as part of his earlier application  but more 2 life lost it and required another one to 
be completed. 
He said that more 2 life had all the information it needed about him and his property from his 
earlier application and should not have issued an illustration if the loan at 3.97% was never 
available to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses to my provisional decision  having done so I havent changed my mind. 
Im not persuaded that more 2 life has to honour the illustration of 3.97%. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, an illustration is not an offer of a loan  its merely a description of 
what is being applied for. Its likely that the illustration was produced by Mr Ws broker when 
the application was submitted rather than by more 2 life directly. 
In any case, as I explained, the mortgage at 3.97% was never available to Mr W because he 
didnt qualify for it due to the rentcharge his property was subject to. But there was no 
reason for either the broker or more 2 life to have known that in advance  the previous 
application had been for a Capital product which had different criteria.
Had Mr W applied for another Capital product in April rather than applying for a Flexi product 
(which he wasnt eligible for), it wouldnt have resulted in a saving of interest since more 2 
life has shown that the 4.27% interest rate he ended up taking was the same as the rate 
available in April. If Mr W had the option of taking another interest rate elsewhere but chose 
to apply to more 2 life, more 2 life isnt responsible for that. 
I agree that more 2 life caused delay because of the issue with Mrs W still being resident in 
the property. Its fair that it compensates Mr W for the extra interest he had to pay on his old 
mortgage as a result.
Putting things right
To put matters right, more 2 life should pay Mr W one months interest on his previous 
interest only mortgage, at the rate applicable in July 2022, adding simple annual interest of 
8% running from 29 July 2022 to the date of refund. more 2 life may deduct income tax from 
the 8% interest element of my award, as required by HMRC, but it should tell Mr W what it 
has deducted so he can reclaim the interest from HMRC if he is entitled to do so.
more 2 life should also pay Mr W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay in completing his mortgage because of the problem over the special 
condition about Mrs Ws occupation of the property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. more 2 life should compensate Mr W in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman