DRN-4300447
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the service shes received from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) after making a claim under her car insurance.
What happened
In December 2022 Mrs F was involved in an accident and made a claim to her car insurer, 
Admiral.
Mrs F was unhappy with Admirals handling of the claim and raised several complaints. This 
included delays during recovery after the accident, delays in repairs, having to make a 
significant number of calls to Admiral (or their agents) and the impact of this, and not being 
provided a courtesy car until around three weeks after the accident.
Admiral issued several final responses to Mrs Fs complaints across the duration of the 
claim. Ultimately, they paid a total of £200 compensation and £260 as a loss of use payment 
for the period Mrs F was without a courtesy car. 
Mrs F wants £750 compensation for what happened, and as she remained unhappy with 
Admiral, she approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said the 
compensation and the loss of use payment was already fair, so she didnt recommend 
Admiral do anything further.
Mrs F didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mrs F, Im not 
going to direct Admiral to do anything further at this stage.
Its not in dispute by Admiral that the service Mrs F received fell short. They accepted the 
various complaint points made and offered compensation and a payment for loss of use 
whilst Mrs F was without a courtesy car. To summarise, Admiral said:
Whilst it took time for recovery after the accident, the recovery agent attended as 
soon as they were able to.
Admiral recognise they were very busy which resulted in Mrs F having difficulties 
reaching them, or being able to reach the correct department, and needing to wait on 
hold for long periods of time.
The repairers failed to keep Mrs F updated. Admirals garages were at capacity 
which resulted in delays in being able to carry out repairs, but Mrs F should have 
been kept updated.
Admiral accept there was a delay in providing a courtesy car and made a payment 
for loss of use for that period. They also said if there is any loss of income due to 
being unable to get to work then evidence of this should be submitted to them by 
Mrs F.
Over the course of the claim and complaints, Admiral paid £200 compensation for the overall 
service Mrs F received, taking into account the points Ive outlined above. And alongside 
this, they also paid £260 for the period Mrs F was without a courtesy car, which was based 
on £10 per day for loss of use.
Whilst Ive not commented individually on everything that occurred (or where the service fell 
short) over the claim duration as this isnt in dispute, I have taken all the information provided 
by both parties into account when reaching my final decision. 
Having done so, I think the compensation already paid by Admiral is fair for what happened. 
I do appreciate it would have been very frustrating to not be updated, encounter delays, and 
then need to contact Admiral (and their agents) as a result. And when doing so, to then 
encounter issues with hold times or being able to reach the correct department. However, I 
think the compensation Admiral has already paid for the service provided is fair. 
Admiral also paid £260 as a loss of use payment for the time Mrs F was without a vehicle. 
And this is what I would have directed Admiral to pay if it hadnt already. So, Im satisfied 
both the compensation and loss of use payments are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Im not going to direct Admiral to increase this.
However, Admiral also recognised that Mrs F said she had to do a number of hours of 
unpaid work as a result of the time she spent on the phone trying to speak to Admiral and 
their agents. In their final response dated 3 May 2023 they said:
You worked unpaid overtime to make up for the time you had to take off to call us 
about the claim and want this reimbursed.
As previously confirmed in the previous Final Decision that was sent on 08/03/22, we 
would be willing to look at reimbursing any loss or earnings that you incurred due to 
the errors. We would require to see documentary evidence of this before we would 
be able to agree any lost income reimbursement.
Therefore, if Mrs F has any evidence to demonstrate time taken away from work as a result 
of Admiral (or their agents), and any losses incurred as a result, then she should submit this 
to Admiral to consider further. If once Mrs F has done this, and if Mrs F remains unhappy 
with the position Admiral reaches based on the information she provides them, we may be 
able to consider that as a new separate complaint.But based on what Ive seen, I think the £200 compensation paid for what happened, along 
with the £260 payment for loss of use, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not 
going to direct Admiral to increase this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman