DRN-2623449
The complaint
Ms M (by way of a representative) complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited, 
trading as Mutual, lent to her irresponsibly.   
What happened
Ms M applied for 19 home collected loans between May 2011 and February 2017. I 
understand 18 of these loans proceeded. Ive included some of the information weve 
received about the loans in the table below. 
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Date Received Actual Repayment Date
1 £300 07/05/2011 21/12/2011
2 £300 14/05/2011 09/05/2012
3 £500 17/09/2011 26/09/2012
4 £500 08/10/2011 11/07/2012
5 £400 08/10/2011 11/07/2012
6 £500 17/12/2011 11/07/2012
7 £300 12/05/2012 03/04/2013
8 £800 * -
9 £1,400 14/07/2012 13/11/2013
10 £500 15/12/2012 04/12/2013
11 £300 06/04/2013 12/02/2014
12 £2,000 03/08/2013 22/04/2015
13 £1,400 16/11/2013 05/08/2015
14 £500 26/07/2014 27/07/2016
15 £2,000 25/04/2015 27/07/2016
16 £1,200 08/08/2015 08/02/2017
17 £500 09/07/2016 29/01/2020
18 £2,000 30/07/2016 **
19 £1,150 11/02/2017 **
*Mutual has told us loan 8 was withdrawn.  
**When Mutual provided us with its file, there was an outstanding balance due for loans 18 
and 19. 
Mutual has objected to us considering Ms Ms complaint about loans 1 to 13. It felt the 
complaint had been brought to us outside of the time limits that govern which complaints we 
can consider. 
The adjudicator asked the representative when Ms M had realised that she had cause to 
complain about loans 1 to 13 so he could fairly consider Mutuals objection. As the 
representative didnt appear to receive a response from Ms M, the adjudicator couldnt say 
whether Ms Ms complaint about loans 1 to 13 had been made on time or not. So, he didnt 
then assess whether these loans were fairly lent. 
The adjudicator considered, though, that it was reasonable to review the history of lending 
when assessing loans 14 to 19 (the loans that Mutual agree we can consider).
 
Having reviewed loans 14 to 19, including consideration of the previous loan history, the 
adjudicator said loans 14 to 19 shouldnt have been lent. He thought that the pattern of 
lending suggested repayment of these loans was unsustainable.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, Mutual provided us a 
detailed response as to why it disagreed with the adjudicator's assessment. I want to be 
clear that I've read the document in full. But in summary, Mutual said:
the checks it completed were proportionate and it gathered more information as the 
lending relationship went on, verifying information provided by Ms M;
the loans are not high interest or expensive and weekly repayments are small so they 
should be considered differently from other lenders or high cost short term
credit;
loans 1 to 13 shouldnt be considered as theyve not been assessed as within the 
time frame to bring a complaint to this service;
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is commonplace and not 
necessarily harmful to consumers. And the industry regulator has confirmed this;
a robust assessment took place to prevent unsustainable lending, including 
consideration of the borrowing record, the level and the frequency of applications; 
a key indicator of when a loan is affordable is whether past loans have been repaid in
a reasonable way. Mutual used a low and grow approach to make sure this did
happen  allowing for larger credit and not restricting further lending to the level of 
the first loan;
most of the loans were over 102 weeks and this allowed for Ms M to be able to 
spread the cost of the borrowing  it is highly unlikely that a customer would be 
borrowing again to fill a gap in their income. And the loans are flexible without 
pressure to pay each week;  
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusion Ms M was 
borrowing unsustainably  and the checks completed indicated the loans would be 
affordable; 
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower number of
loans than this, so the lending was not likely to be unsustainable;
Ms M saved money by not borrowing through a main national provider  and it isnt 
fair to prohibit a customer from further loans based on an arbitrary number of loans 
provided and which would force them to go to another provider and pay twice as 
much. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ms M doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Mutuals objection to 
this service considering loans 1 to 13 cannot be fairly decided by us. It seems therefore that 
there is no longer a dispute about these loans. So instead, this decision will focus on 
whether Mutual did anything wrong when it lent loans 14 to 19. 
So, although I wont be looking at loans 1  13, Mutual says these loans shouldnt form part 
of any reasoning as to why the later loans have been upheld. Id point out the earlier loans 
do form part of Ms Ms overall lending history between her and Mutual. So, while I make no 
finding on whether these loans were lent fairly, I dont think it is unreasonable to consider the 
headline information about these loans in the context of the overall lending relationship when 
deciding whether Mutual did anything wrong when it granted loans 14  19. 
Mutual has had other decisions from us which detail our approach to complaints of this 
nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type 
of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go 
into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M could
repay loans 14 to 19 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include: 
Ms M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ms M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms M. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.At the time loans 14 to 19 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Ms complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms M.    
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these 
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on 
our website. So, Im not going to deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, 
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 14 to 19 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it 
gathered more and more information about Ms Ms expenditure to be persuasive in showing 
the loans were affordable and sustainable. Theres no real detailed analysis of this apparent 
increasing volume of information. So, Im not clear how this argument supports that the loans 
were properly lent. Furthermore, at this stage in the lending relationship I dont think it was 
reasonable of Mutual to have relied on what Ms M declared. 
So, having looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Ms M, I agree with 
our adjudicator that Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 14. I say this because:
By loan 14 it was over three years into the lending relationship with no breaks 
between loans. And the loans generally overlapped, often with three or more loans 
running at the same time. As loans overlapped, Ms Ms overall indebtedness and 
weekly payment increased. In my view, Ms Ms loan history up until this point was a 
clear indication that her underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving; 
Ms M took some loans around the same time previous ones were repaid, for 
example, loans 6, 9, 11 and 13. Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Ms M, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a 
long term financial need. To me, this is an indicative of her indebtedness not being 
sustainable;
The home collected loans show a broadly similar pattern of borrowing. Ms M had 
taken nine loans of between £300 and £500  with loan 14, a further £500, being the 
tenth occasion similar borrowing was lent. I think its most likely this consistent 
pattern of borrowing over the period showed that Ms M didnt just have a short-term 
cash-flow problem but was probably supporting regular living expenses or other 
financial commitments.By the point of loan 14, as Ms M was making a commitment to make repayments for 
another two years, its likely that her problems would continue, and she would need 
to borrow again in the future (as did happen);
Ms Ms lending history was prolonged with most of the subsequent loans showing a 
higher level of indebtedness, suggesting her underlying financial situation may even 
have deteriorated or that she was becoming increasingly reliant on the loans. The 
amount of time that Ms M spent indebted to Mutual meant that she was servicing a 
debt to Mutual over an extended period.
I think that Ms M lost out when Mutual provided loans 14 to 19 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 14 to 19 and Ill go on to set out
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Ms Ms complaint.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms M from loan 14. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there 
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and Mutual which she may not have had with others. If this wasnta viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms M loans 14 to 19.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms M
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms M having made
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Ms M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms M. Mutual shouldnt
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing for loans 14 to 19 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Ms credit 
file. Mutual does not have to remove loans from Ms Ms credit file until they have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if they ask for one.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman