DRN-3755520
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank PLC, mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) in 
2007 and 2009 alongside their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J first took out their mortgage in 1989 but they did not take out PPI at that time. 
In 2007 they took out some additional borrowing on their mortgage and also took out PPI 
alongside this to cover their entire outstanding mortgage amount. Then in 2009 Mr and Mrs J 
took out another further advance and again took out PPI to cover this additional borrowing.
Mr and Mrs J say the PPI was not suitable for them and they should not have been advised 
to take out this cover. 
In the most recent review of all the evidence in this case our adjudicator considered this 
complaint but didnt think that either of the policies were mis-sold. Mr and Mrs J disagreed, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of these policies on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold and Ill explain why.
2007 sale 
Mr and Mrs J did not take out PPI with their original borrowing. But Lloyds have provided 
evidence to show they took out PPI with some additional borrowing over the phone in 2007 
and were sent out some documents to sign and return. Unfortunately, due to the time thats 
passed the call recording is not available for me to listen to. So I have to look at the evidence 
available to come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Amongst the documents sent out after the call is a PPI application form. I think its likely Mr 
and Mrs J were sent this form after a discussion on the phone where they chose to take out 
the PPI in joint names. I say this because the form was sent to them with some of their 
personal details already completed. 
Mr and Mrs J completed the remainder of this form, a direct debit mandate for the PPI 
premiums, signed both forms and sent them back to Lloyds to agree to the cover. But there 
is nothing on this form to suggest the PPI was compulsory or that it was part of the mortgage 
application. In any event Mr and Mrs J already had a mortgage running with Lloyds, so I 
think they wouldve known they couldve taken out the borrowing without PPI and that this 
was a separate and optional extra.  
Our adjudicator considered the information we have and felt this was an advised sale. 
Neither party has responded to disagree with this point, so I have also considered this to 
have been an advised sale.
This means Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs J. Mr and Mrs J say that this policy was not suitable for them as they were both 
employed by Mr Js company and so they should not have been advised to take it out. The 
evidence supplied from the time of sale shows that Mrs J was employed as a manager for 
the local council. Mr Js employment is recorded as employed as a Director, and he has 
confirmed this was as a Director of her own company. But Ive looked closely at the terms 
and conditions for this policy and from what Ive seen I think Mr J couldve still made use of 
the policy in his circumstances. And the policy terms do not make it more difficult for a 
person in his position to make a valid claim. 
So based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think this policy was suitable 
for them. For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for this type of cover.
Mrs J says she was entitled to sick pay at the time and that she had savings which she 
couldve used to make the repayments. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her sick 
pay, so she couldve used her sick pay to cover other essential expenditure. Even though Mr 
and Mrs J say they had savings at the time, they chose to take out additional borrowing 
against their property. So, it seems likely that they had these savings earmarked for 
something else or wanted to keep them untouched. Having the PPI in place meant that they 
didnt have to dip into the savings had Mr or Mrs J been unable to work.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about the policy wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But it seems like they chose to take out the policy and for the same reasons 
I think the policy was suitable for them, I think it wouldve been useful had something gone
wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out
the cover.
So I dont think the policy sold in 2007 was mis-sold. 
2009 sale
In 2009 Mr and Mrs J took out further borrowing against their property during a meeting with 
Lloyds. Lloyds have been able to provide us with some of the documentation from this sale. 
This shows Mr and Mrs J agreed to Lloyds recommendation to take out the PPI policy. They 
also completed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate. Again, none of the 
evidence Ive seen from the sale suggest this policy was compulsory or that the mortgage 
would not be approved without the inclusion of PPI. 
As Mr and Mrs J signed these separate documents and had taken out previous borrowing 
with Lloyds without having PPI, I think they wouldve known this was a separate and optional 
product. 
The adjudicator considered the evidence and felt that this was an advised sale. As I have not 
had any dispute on this point, I have also considered this to have been an advised sale. 
This means Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs J - and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Again the PPI policy document from the time shows that Mr J wouldve been able to make a 
claim on the policy as a self-employed individual and the requirements he had to meet to make a claim are reasonable for someone in his situation. With regards to Mrs J, the 
evidence shows she was employed by the local council at the time. So, she also wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they both seem to have 
had a need for this type of cover.
Again, its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about the policy wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the policy and for the same reasons I
think the policy was suitable for them I think it wouldve been useful had something gone
wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out
the cover.
Overall, I dont think the policy sold in 2009 was mis-sold either.
My final decision
The policies sold to Mr and Mrs J in 2007 and 2009 were not mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman