DRN-3807853
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Revolut Ltd hasnt reimbursed him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
The factual background to this case is well known to the parties so I dont intend to repeat it 
in full here. 
Briefly, Mr P fell victim to whats known as a safe account scam. A scammer called him and 
said that he was an employee of his banks fraud team. They were able to spoof the 
legitimate customer service number for his bank. They were also able to persuade him that 
the call was genuinely from his bank because they knew two businesses that he held an 
account with and the balance of those accounts.
He was told that two accounts that he held with other businesses had been compromised. In 
order to protect his money, he needed to move it into a designated safe account. He was 
told the compromise to his account was subject to an active police investigation. If he 
disclosed any of the details of what he was doing, he was told there could be adverse 
consequences for him. He was asked to transfer funds to his account with Revolut. From 
that Revolut account, he made transfers to an account controlled by the fraudsters. In total, 
he transferred just under £35,000.
Revolut didnt think it needed to reimburse him. It said that Mr P had ignored warnings when 
making the payments. It also pointed out that it identified these payments as being out of 
character and that there was a risk of a scam. It paused the payments and asked Mr P to 
answer some questions about them and speak with one of its agents via the in-app chat 
function. It considered that, even if it had done more to intervene in connection with these 
payments, Mr P was determined to make them and so there was little it couldve done.
Mr P was unhappy with the response he received from Revolut and so he referred a 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. 
The Investigator thought that, if Revolut had questioned Mr P on the payment, it wouldve 
been able to identify that he was likely falling victim to a scam. The scammers had given him 
a cover story but it wasnt particularly detailed. She thought it was likely hed have struggled 
to think on his feet if an employee of Revolut had asked him about the reasons for making 
the payment. She was also satisfied that Mr P shouldnt be considered partially responsible 
for his losses.
Revolut disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr P is presumed liable for these payments because he 
authorised them. However, Revolut was also expected to:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In summary Revolut was expected to be on the lookout for account activity that suggested 
an increased risk of fraud. Im satisfied that it shouldve recognised the increased risk here. 
These were large payments made to new payees and there were multiple payments in quick 
succession. 
I agree with the Investigator that Revolut ought to have questioned Mr P about the reasons 
he was making this payment. The cover story he was given wasnt particularly detailed and 
so it shouldve been possible to spot that he was struggling to improvise answers to 
questions on the spot. 
Revolut has argued that, since Mr P didnt properly engage with it when it tried to 
communicate with him via the in-app chat, it was highly likely hed have just wanted to 
proceed with the payments anyway. Revolut wouldnt have been able to dissuade him from 
going ahead. But I think its important to note that Revolut couldve temporarily blocked the 
payment and only agreed to consider releasing it if Mr P spoke to one of its agents in the 
app. Having successfully identified that there was an increased risk of fraud with these 
payments, I dont think it shouldve agreed to go ahead with them until it had taken 
reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Mr P wasnt falling victim to a scam.
Ive also considered whether Mr P can be considered partially responsible for his losses. In 
doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory negligence but also borne in 
mind the fact that I must reach a decision based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. 
The scammer was able to persuade him that the call was from his bank by spoofing their 
genuine number (something which he wasnt aware was possible) and knowing personal 
information about him that he assumed only his bank could know. I dont think he can be 
said to have been contributorily negligent because he believed that the call originated with 
his bank. 
All the actions he subsequently took must be seen in that context  i.e. that he sincerely 
believed he was following the instructions of his banks fraud team. It is true that he chose an 
inaccurate reason for making the payment and that some of the warnings that were 
displayed contained content that was relevant to this particular type of scam. But its a 
commonly occurring feature of many APP scams that a customer is told an active 
investigation means they must not be candid with their bank about their reasons for the 
payment. If Ive accepted that Mr P wasnt careless in believing that he was genuinely taking a call 
from his bank, I dont think I can reasonably say that he was careless for acting on the 
advice he believed his bank was giving him. Overall, Im satisfied that Mr P cant be 
considered partially responsible here. He was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a 
cruel and cynical scam.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr P accepts my decision, 
Revolut Ltd should refund the payments he made to the scammer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman