DRN-3595950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) didnt accept a 
claim on their home insurance policy.
Both Mr and Mrs J are named policyholders on their Lloyds policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs J, Ill refer mainly to Mrs J from here onward.
Mrs J bought the policy through an insurance intermediary and most of her correspondence 
has been with this intermediary rather than directly with Lloyds. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any reference to Lloyds includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
Mrs J had a Lloyds insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In August 2020, she 
noticed damp patches on her hall carpet. She believed this was caused by a leak from the 
central heating pipes under the floor. Mrs J says she contacted Lloyds but it didnt reply. 
In October 2020, Mrs J contacted Lloyds again. She said the carpets in her hall, lounge, 
office, and dining room were damp. Her builder said this was due to leaks from the central 
heating pipes that ran under the concrete floor.
Lloyds arranged for its surveyor to inspect the damage. There were two inspections by two 
different inspectors (referred to as A and B in this decision):
A, 6 November 2020. The surveyor concluded that the carpets in the dining room, 
lounge and the hallway are all wet as a result of leaking pipes under the floor in all 
the rooms. He advised Mrs J that her claim would be accepted.
B, 11 November 2020. The surveyor said he pulled back the carpet but saw no 
evidence of any pipes leaking. He suggested the damp/staining was caused by the 
family dog.
Lloyds declined the claim. When Mrs J got in contact again in April 2021, Lloyds asked her 
to get a Cause of Damage report from her own builder. Mrs J didnt do this and didnt 
contact Lloyds again until August 2021. 
Lloyds commissioned another inspection by B. On 23 September 2021, the surveyor lifted 
the carpets and found no evidence of leaks/moisture coming up through the floors in the 
areas shown. He restated his belief that the staining was caused by the family dog.
Lloyds told Mrs J that it wouldnt accept a claim for damage as there was no evidence an 
insured event had taken place. It said surveyor B had inspected the damage twice and found 
no evidence of a leak. It offered her £75 to apologise for surveyor A telling her it would 
accept the claim. It again suggested Mrs J commission her own report and it would review 
the findings.
Mrs J was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. Shes unhappy that 
Lloyds first surveyor told her the damage was from a leak and that her claim would be 
accepted, then refused to accept the claim. She wants Lloyds to cover the cost of the 
damage to her home.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. He found that, 
although the first inspection concluded the damage was due to a leak, further inspections 
showed this was unlikely. He also found that Lloyds offered to review a report from Mrs Js 
own expert. He thought this was reasonable. Finally, he was satisfied that Lloyds offer of 
£75 to apologise for failings in handling the claim was fair.
Mrs J disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear to me why Lloyds sent a second surveyor to visit Mrs J less than a week after 
the first surveyor concluded there was a leak and recommended Lloyds arrange a trace and 
access repair. Having said that, theres clearly conflicting evidence from Lloyds experts 
about the cause of the damp.
Insurers usually only offer trace and access cover for finding the source of a leak from a 
water or heating installation  not for finding the source of water entering the home in 
general. So if theres nothing to suggest the leak is coming from any part of the water and 
heating system, Mrs J cant make a claim on the policy.
The photos and video evidence clearly show the water damage in Mrs Js home. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I dont accept Lloyds suggestion that the family dog caused this. I just 
dont think its reasonable to think Mrs J or her family wouldnt know if the damp was dog 
urine. I also find it difficult to believe that dog urine would cause such widespread staining 
without leaving a significant smell. The surveyor who suggested the dog was to blame (B) 
acknowledged there was no smell of urine in the home.
But the two inspections by B suggest the water damage is coming from above, not below, 
the carpet. I also note that the damp was first discovered in August 2020. I think Lloyds 
argument that a leak from the central heating system would have caused significantly more 
damage by the time of Bs second inspection in September 2021 is a fair one.
When Lloyds declined the claim it suggested Mrs J arrange her own inspection and it would 
review the findings. Given Lloyds doesnt believe the water damage is from a leak, and the 
evidence from its own surveyors is unclear, I dont think this is an unreasonable suggestion. 
Mrs J hasnt done this. If she was to get an independent report, and the report identified the 
cause of damage as a leak, I think Lloyds would have to accept this and settle any claim in 
line with the policy terms.
I understand that this has caused Mrs J significant distress. Im really sorry to hear this. I 
also understand that this hasnt been helped by the length of time the matter has taken to 
resolve. Again, Im sorry about this, however I dont think Lloyds can be held fully 
responsible for this. Im satisfied that a lot of the delays were due to Mrs Js own personal 
circumstances and, in general, Lloyds has responded to her communications in good time.
However, while I disagree with Lloyds suggestion that the damage was caused by the family 
dog, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to conclude that the damage was caused by a leak and is covered by Mrs Js policy. As such, I dont think Lloyds decision to refuse 
her claim was unreasonable.
Lloyds offered Mrs J £75 to apologise for initially telling her the claim would be accepted. In 
the circumstances, I think this was fair. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman