DRN-4180602
The complaint
Mrs W through a representative complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
wont refund the money she lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here.
In 2022 Mrs W was in contact, via a careers based social media platform, with a scammer 
that I will call B. B said he is an experienced crypto trader. B convinced Mrs W that she 
should invest in his trading platform and explained how she could make money from crypto 
trading using his platform.
Mrs W made the following transactions via debit card
Transaction Number Date of Payment Merchant Amount
1 11/06/2022 Crypto.com £1,019.14
2 16/06/2022 Crypto.com £9,352.30
3 18/07/2022 Crypto.com £17,972.34
4 25/07/2022 Crypto.com £16,014.21
These payments were then converted from pounds into a crypto currency and the crypto 
currency was then sent to a fake trading platform that was controlled by B. Mrs W tried to 
withdraw some of her funds, but was unable to do so without paying further fees. After some 
back and forth between herself and B, she realised that she had been scammed.
Mrs W made a complaint to Nationwide and requested that the above transactions be 
refunded. Nationwide in response to the complaint refunded 50% of transaction 2,3 and 4 
and paid an additional £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays 
in its response.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they concluded that what Nationwide 
had already done was sufficient. Since this Nationwide has agreed to add 8% annual simple 
interest to the refund from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement.
Mrs Ws representative did not agree with this outcome. So, this complaint has been passed 
to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance both parties agreed that Nationwide should have intervened during the scam 
and that had an intervention occurred the scam would have been stopped. What is in dispute 
is whether what Nationwide has already done to rectify this matter is fair and reasonable.
So, with this in mind I need to consider whether a refund from transaction two is appropriate, 
then whether the 50% deduction is appropriate and finally if Nationwide could have 
recovered the funds via other means.
In relation to the refund being from transaction 2 onwards I think that this is appropriate. I 
say this because the first transaction was not large enough or unusual enough to have 
prompted an intervention or questions from Nationwide. So, I think that a refund from 
transaction 2 is appropriate and in line with what I would have recommended.
In relation to the 50% deduction, Ive thought about whether Mrs Ws actions contributed to 
her losses. Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must 
still take responsibility for their decisions. 
In this instance, Mrs W met the scammer through a career orientated social media platform. 
The person contacted her in an unsolicited manner. As far as I can tell, Mrs W was not 
looking for investment advice at this point and within a relatively short amount of time, 
without actually meeting the scammer in person, she was transferring large sums of money 
on their advice.
I cant see that Mrs W did any substantial research or carried out any checks to determine 
that the scammers representations were true especially as I cant find anything about B even 
using a historical website archive tool. I can find a company with a similar name to B so if 
any research was done by Mrs W it would not have been on the correct company. Given the 
substantial sums involved, I dont think it reasonable for Mrs W to have only done research 
on a similar company rather than the actual company she was dealing with. I note Mrs Ws 
representatives comments that Mrs W was not an experienced investor and her native 
language is not English but overall I think the difference in name is sufficiently clear that it 
was not reasonable to mistake them to be the same company.
I also note Mrs Ws representative comments in relation to the factors that it feels contributed 
to Mrs W being susceptible to being scammed. I have carefully considered this but overall 
Mrs W seems to have placed a lot of trust in a very short period of time with someone she 
did not really know, who approached her out of the blue and without researching the actual 
company that she was dealing with. So even taking into consideration the mitigating factors 
that Mrs Ws representative has mentioned I think that she is partially responsible for her 
own loss, so Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In relation to the £250 that Nationwide already paid for delays in its investigation I think that 
this is reasonable and I dont think that it needs to do anything more.
Finally, I have considered whether Nationwide could have recovered the payments in 
question. In this instance as the payments were card payments in some instances the 
payments could be recovered by instigating a chargeback. However, in the circumstances of 
this complaint I dont think a chargeback would have been successful as Mrs W did receive 
the crypto she paid for before it was transferred on to B.So, taking everything into consideration I think that what Nationwide has already agreed to 
do is fair and reasonable, so I uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should refund 50% in total of transaction 2,3 and 4 if not 
already refunded. My understanding is that this has already been refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest annually from the date of each transaction to the date of 
settlement less any tax lawfully deductible. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay redress as outline above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman