DRN-2434319
The complaint
 Mr N complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion, but I dont currently agree with the redress hes
suggested. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car,
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr N. The car here
was a little over three years old and had already completed about 49,000 miles.
durability
I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and tear on a car of this age and
mileage, but I dont think theyd expect the engine to need replacing after only a further three
months and 5,800 miles of driving. I think that would suggest the car hadnt been sufficiently
durable.
I appreciate that Close Brothers have attempted to obtain information from an independent
engineer and that that engineer has suggested that in his opinion the fault the car is suffering
from was not present when the car was supplied. But the engineer has not commented on
whether he believes the car could be considered suitably durable and I think a reasonable
person wouldnt consider that to be the case. I think its fair to say a cars engine should last
considerably longer than 55,000 miles.
Close Brothers should therefore take some further action because the car has not been
sufficiently durable and is therefore not of satisfactory quality.
the recall
Close Brothers have suggested the recall isnt currently listed as outstanding. I think thats
the case because it was completed by the franchised dealership when they provided their
repair estimation in August 2020. In that estimate they say:
Carried out BMW recall: 0011260500 for replacing the intake system.
The manufacturer instigated that recall in May 2015 which was several months before Mr N
took receipt of the car. I think he could have expected any outstanding recalls to have been
dealt with before he took receipt of the car. And because the intake system recall hadnt
been dealt with, I think that suggests the car wasnt of an acceptable quality when it was
supplied to him.
I dont think Close Brothers would disagree with that point as, in an email they sent to us on
10 September 2020, they said they completely agree that if the vehicle has an outstanding
vehicle recall then this would render it (of) unsatisfactory quality.
So, I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality because it hasnt been suitably durable
and also, because it was supplied to Mr N without a recall being completed.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a fault that was present
at the point of supply. Close Brothers havent attempted a repair yet, but the investigator has
suggested they accept rejection because hes of the view it would cost more to repair the car
than the car is worth.
I think thats a decision that Close Brother will need to make as the legislation allows them to
repair the car if they wish. So, Im expecting to tell them to either repair the car or allow Mr N
to reject it.
if Close Brothers decide to allow the car to be rejected:
They should end the finance agreement and collect the car from Mr N.
Close Brothers will also need to refund Mr Ns deposit and theyll need to add interest to that
refund as Mr N has been deprived of that money.
Mr N appears to have had reasonable use of the car and its fair he pays for that through his
monthly finance instalments. But the car hasnt been driveable since 20 May 2020 so any
instalments paid by M N since then should be refunded to him along with interest, as hesbeen deprived of that money.
Mr N has also been inconvenienced by these issues and hes had to pursue his complaint
through this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances,
Close Brothers should pay him £100 compensation.
if Close Brothers chose to repair the car:
For the reasons Ive already set out, they should refund any finance instalments from 20 May
2020 until the point the car is successfully returned to Mr N, and they should add 8% interest
per year to that refund.
They should also pay Mr N £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to tell Close Brothers Limited to either:
allow Mr N to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr N;
refund Mr Ns deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments paid from 20 May 2020 and add 8% simple interest
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr N £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in respect of
this issue.
or:
repair the car at no cost to Mr N;
refund any finance instalments paid from 20 May 2020 to the date the car is repaired
and returned to Mr N. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to
the date the car is repaired and returned.
pay Mr N £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in respect of
this issue.
Neither party had any additional information to supply and both accepted my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive not therefore been persuaded to change my mind and my provisional decision becomes 
my final decision.
Putting things right
 Close Brothers have explained that theyll wait to hear my final decision before deciding whether to repair or allow rejection of the car. So, Im set out both options for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding this complaint and telling Close Brothers 
Limited to either:
allow Mr N to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr N;
refund Mr Ns deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments paid from 20 May 2020 and add 8% simple interest
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr N £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in respect of
this issue.
or:
repair the car at no cost to Mr N;
refund any finance instalments paid from 20 May 2020 to the date the car is repaired
and returned to Mr N. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to
the date the car is repaired and returned.
pay Mr N £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in respect of
this issue. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman