DRN-4277198
The complaint
Miss S and Mr T are unhappy AWP P&C SA turned down a claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss S and Mr T have travel insurance with AWP. In July 2021 they booked a honeymoon 
cruise to the Caribbean departing in February 2023. In November 2022 Miss S became 
pregnant. She says she discussed her holiday with her midwife who advised her to cancel 
because of the risk of Zika virus in the destinations the cruise was due to visit. Miss S and 
Mr T did so (and received a 50% refund from the cruise operator). 
They made a claim to AWP for the outstanding amount (around £3,000). AWP turned down 
the claim. It said although the policy covered cancellation as a result of complications of 
pregnancy Miss S hadnt had any complications. And the circumstances that led to the 
cancellation of their cruise werent something the policy covered. 
Our investigator accepted Miss S and Mr Ts reasons for cancellation didnt fall within those 
listed in the policy. But the policy also excluded cover where the policyholder didnt follow 
advice or recommendations from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office. And 
guidance for the Caribbean islands was that, because of the risk of Zika virus, pregnant 
women should consider avoiding travel there until after their pregnancy. 
He didnt think it was fair that Miss S and Mr T were in a position where they wouldnt be 
covered if they did travel but werent covered for cancellation either. He said AWP should 
pay the claim (and add 8% interest to that amount). 
AWP didnt agree. It said claims were assessed in line with the policy terms and no policy 
covered all eventualities. The advice not to travel was preventative and that wasnt 
something the policy covered. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss S and Mr Ts policy. This does cover 
cancellation of the trip and the covered reasons include medical complications as a result 
of your pregnancy or the pregnancy of anyone you have arranged to travel or stay with 
during the trip.
I appreciate in this case Miss S didnt have any complications from her pregnancy at the time 
she and Mr T decided to cancel their trip. Her concern was about what might happen if she 
was exposed to Zika virus on one of the stops her cruise was due to make. That isnt 
something which is covered by the policy term Ive referenced. And I dont think it would fall 
within any of the other listed cancellation reasons either. 
But, as well as considering whether the policy terms have been applied correctly, our rules 
also require me to think about whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. And I 
think its relevant here that Miss S and Mr Ts policy contained a general exclusion which 
says AWP wont pay claims arising directly or indirectly from You not following any advice or 
recommendations made by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), 
the World Health Organization, or any government or other official authority.
At the time Miss S and Mr T were due to go on their trip the advice from the FCDO for their 
destinations was these had a risk of Zika virus transmission. It said travellers should check 
the National Travel Health Network and Centre for more information. Their advice for every 
country Miss S and Mr T were due to visit was (in bold) that Pregnant women should 
consider avoiding travel to this country until after the pregnancy.
Ive also taken into account that Miss S and Mr T booked their holiday in July 2021 (for 
departure in February 2023). Miss S didnt become pregnant until November 2022, around 
16 months later. I havent seen anything to suggest this is something they would have 
anticipated when they made their booking. And the advice against travel covered every 
destination they were due to visit on their cruise. 
I recognise that Miss S and Mr Ts cancellation reasons dont fall within those listed in the 
policy. I also appreciate that, as AWP says, no policy will cover every eventuality. But I dont 
think it would have been reasonable to expect them to go ahead with their trip given the 
clear and established risk Zika virus posed to Miss Ss unborn child and the lack of cover 
under their policy for any related issues. 
And I think the policy terms put them in a position where they wouldnt be covered if they 
went on their trip (because theyd have been travelling against official advice) but equally 
they didnt have cover if they cancelled. Taking into account all of the circumstances of this 
case I dont think thats fair. And I think the right way to address this is for AWP to pay the 
claim Miss S and Mr T made (subject to any excess and policy limits) plus interest. 
Putting things right
AWP will need to pay Miss S and Mr Ts claim subject to any excess and policy limits. It will 
also need to add 8% simple interest on that amount from the date the claim was made until 
the date of settlement. 
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss S and Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA will need to put things right by doing 
what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
James ParkOmbudsman