DRN-3188226
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy with the decision by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) to pay out for a third 
party (TP) claim which she wasnt given the opportunity to defend. 
What happened
Miss V had a car insurance policy with AXA. She had 10 years no claims bonus at the time 
of taking out the policy. The policy document explained:
5. Claims
If you or your car are involved in any type of incident, accident, claim or loss 
regardless of fault We may take over, defend or settle the claim, or take up any 
claim in your name; 
In October 2019 Miss V was reversing her car out of a service station car park when there 
was impact with another car. Miss V exchanged details with the third party (TP) driver, and 
informed AXA of what had happened by making a first notification of loss (FNOL) call on 17 
October. AXAs case notes at the time recorded:
policy holder was advising that a small incident has happened between another 
vehicle when the policy holder was reversing and the third party drove into policy 
holders rear. listening to the call i have concluded that she would be at fault however 
the damages that the policy holder has said suggests there may have been some pre 
existing damage. 
policy holder has said that there may be cctv footage and that she has pictures of the 
damage to both cars. 
i have advised to the policy holder that usually based on the circs it will be a fault but 
we will wait until the evidence comes in before making a decision but will most likely 
be a fault policy holder is adamant that she does not want to claim and for us to log 
this as a notification only so I have not sent any notification to the third party 
insurance as of yet however if the third party decides to claim please get in contact 
with the policy holder to advise as she has said if the third party decides to claim she 
will claim for damage to her vehicle
The following day AXAs case notes recorded Based on the information we have the insured 
has confirmed that they have reversed and hit the Third Party vehicle and therefore this will 
be a fault claim. Miss V heard nothing else from AXA, and so considered the matter closed.
In February 2020 Miss Cs car was involved in a second incident. Miss V made a claim on 
her car insurance policy to settle the claim. 
In July 2020 Miss V received details for renewal of her car insurance policy. The renewal 
quote stated that Miss V had 4 years no claims discount bonus, and was much more 
expensive than what Miss V had paid the previous years (a difference of £777.39 compared 
to the previous year). Miss V contacted AXA, and was told that two fault claims had been 
recorded against Miss Vs policy. Miss V was surprised by this, and said she was only aware 
of the one fault claim from April 2020. 
Miss V complained to AXA about the incident from October 2019 had being recorded as a 
fault claim, and that she hadnt been told anything about AXAs decision to settle (if she had, 
she wouldve disputed it at the time). 
AXA responded to the complaint on 24 November 2020. AXA apologised for the lack of 
communication with Miss V at the time about how theyd settled the claim. AXA also 
admitted You also advised there was no damage to either vehicles, I feel we should have 
investigated these concerns. AXA offered £200 to Miss V in settlement of her complaint. 
Unhappy with the response from AXA, Miss V brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation. Miss V said she was unhappy about losing her 10 years no claims bonus, and 
the financial impact on her because of the cost of her insurance premium going up. Miss V 
also felt AXA should pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her by their poor 
handling of her claim, and lack of communication with her.  
The investigator found that AXA shouldve communicated the fault outcome sooner to Miss 
V. The investigator said that the offer made by AXA to put things right was reasonable, and 
didnt recommend any further compensation. 
Miss V rejected these findings saying that there was no damage at the time of the incident, 
and this had been discussed with the TP at the time. She also explained that there was 
CCTV footage which wouldve shown what had happened. Miss V said she wouldve 
strongly disputed the fault claim at the time if AXA had contacted her. Miss V also explained 
how AXAs handling of the claim has left her feeling upset, and inconvenienced, as shes 
had difficulty finding competitively priced insurance elsewhere. 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October 2021 saying that I uphold this complaint. In 
that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Its not the role of this service to determine how a Court wouldve determined liability. Its not 
certain what wouldve happened if the incident involving Miss Vs car wouldve been properly 
investigated, and defended by AXA. However, I think its fair to say that AXA didnt carry out 
a full and proper investigation before reaching a decision to settle the claim, and record the 
incident as a fault claim. 
During the FNOL call Miss V informed the call handler that she was in strong disagreement 
with the TPs version of events. When told during this call that the incident would be 
recorded as a fault claim, Miss V made it clear that she wanted to challenge this, and 
requested that the claim to be recorded as notification only. It was recorded that if the third 
party decides to claim please get in contact with the policy holder to advise as she has said if 
the third party decides to claim she will claim for damage to her vehicle. 
Instead of investigating what had happened, AXA made the decision to settle the claim the 
following day. I think the level of service provided here was below the standard wed expect. 
Given Miss Vs strong assertions about what had happened, and conflicting evidence about 
who was responsible for the impact, I think there was a responsibility on AXA to ensure that 
a fair investigation was carried out before any decision to settle was made. I accept that ultimately the decision to defend, or settle the claim was with AXA to make. 
However wed expect an insurer to take reasonable steps to carry out a fair and thorough 
investigation, and to keep their customer updated on this. AXAs service fell substantially 
short of this. 
AXAs case notes say that Miss V wasnt told that her claim was going to be logged as a 
fault claim, and the email that shouldve been sent out at the time, wasnt sent. On balance, I 
think Miss V wouldve challenged AXAs decision, and requested that AXA obtain CCTV and 
review the photos she had taken at the time the incident happened, before making a 
decision on the claim. 
Its not for this service to determine what weight may have been placed on any evidence. I 
also accept that the outcome may still have been a fault claim being recorded against Miss 
V. But I think there was sufficient contradictory evidence (including Miss Vs testimony, the 
possible CCTV footage, and photos which Miss V said she took at the time of the incident) 
which AXA shouldve investigated before settling the claim, and recording it as a fault 
incident. 
Because AXA didnt take this steps, Miss V has been left with a fault claim recorded against 
her policy for a claim which was poorly investigated by AXA, and one that Miss V wasnt 
given the opportunity to defend. 
Miss V was caused shock and upset when she learned about the incident being recorded as 
a fault claim, and impact on her no claims discount and insurance premium, some nine 
months after the incident took place. I think Miss V wouldve been distressed in finding out 
that her 10 years no claims discount had been substantially reduced to 4, and shed had no 
notice of the reason for this until contacting AXA herself. I think AXAs lack of communication 
with Miss V added to the poor customer service experience overall, and Miss V should be 
compensated for this. 
Given the uncertainties surrounding what may have happened if the case had been properly 
considered by AXA, I think a fair outcome for this complaint should reflect the fact that AXA 
shouldve undertaken a more in-depth investigation before agreeing to pay the claim, and 
record it as a fault incident. Given the contradictory evidence which wasnt investigated by 
AXA, I think theres enough here to say that the outcome of the claim may have been 
different if follow-up steps had been taken.
Miss V has also commented on the additional cost of paying for her insurance because of 
the way the claim had been recorded. I think its fair that AXA pay compensation for this. 
Insurance premiums can be impacted by a number of factors, and the calculation of this is 
commercially sensitive and not something this service would get involved with. So Ive 
included compensation for this difference in premium when thinking about the overall impact 
on Miss V with whats gone wrong.  
putting things right
With these considerations in mind, I think a fair outcome is for AXA to:
1. Record Miss V claim as non-fault;
2. Reinstate Miss Vs no claims bonus to the position it would be in had the claim been 
recorded as non-fault;
3. Refund any policy excess due (if any) in line with the terms and conditions of Miss 
Vs insurance policy, had the claim been recorded as non-fault;4. Pay Miss V £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her because of 
AXAs failure to investigate the claim properly, and communicate their decision to 
settle the claim in good time; and the financial impact of paying more for the cost of 
insurance at renewal. 
Responses 
Miss V accepted my provisional decision. AXA didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
Their comments include:
1. the fact is our customer reversed into another vehicle, this is a clear fault claim 
and we would not be able to change the claim to reflect this in any other way.
2. I am happy to increase the compensation to £500.00 however I dont feel it is fair to 
raise a further £500.00 compensation on top on the £200.00 we have already paid.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA say the fact is our customer reversed into another vehicle, this is a clear fault claim 
and we would not be able to change the claim to reflect this in any other way.
I have carefully considered AXAs comments about this claim being a fault claim. However I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence to reach this conclusion. Had AXA properly 
investigated the claim at the time, including a thorough review of what Miss V had explained 
about her version of what had happened, I think theres a reasonable prospect that the 
outcome may have been different. 
I think AXAs lack of investigation raises serious questions about whether the claim was a 
fault, non-fault, or even fraudulent claim. Without a proper investigation, I dont think theres 
enough evidence to reach a fair determination.
Because of this, for the reasons already explained in the provisional decision, I think its fair 
and reasonable for the claim to be recorded as non-fault. This outcome feels fair as theres 
no way of now knowing what the outcome would have been had AXA acted in line with the 
way they should have. I dont think Miss V should be penalised or suffer financially because 
AXA failed to carry out a proper and thorough investigation of the claim.  
In respect of the compensation amount, AXA have said I am happy to increase the 
compensation to £500.00 however I dont feel it is fair to raise a further £500.00 
compensation on top on the £200.00 we have already paid. 
As explained in the provisional decision, the additional compensation amount of £500 is in 
recognition of a number of different things that have happened on this claim. 
Firstly there is the increased cost of insurance premium Miss V has been forced to pay over 
the years because of the fault claim recorded on her policy. Secondly there is the distress 
and inconvenience caused as a result of AXA failing to investigate the claim properly in the 
first place. Miss V was also caused shock and upset in finding out almost nine months after 
the incident, that the claim had in fact been recorded as a fault claim, (when she had heard 
nothing about it at the time despite asking AXA to keep her informed). Having considered these factors, I think the impact on Miss V is severe enough to warrant 
additional compensation of £500. 
  
Putting things right
With these considerations in mind, I think a fair outcome is for AXA to:
1. Record Miss V claim as non-fault;
2. Reinstate Miss Vs no claims bonus to the position it would be in had the claim been 
recorded as non-fault;
3. Refund any policy excess due (if any) in line with the terms and conditions of Miss 
Vs insurance policy, had the claim been recorded as non-fault;
4. Pay Miss V £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her because of 
AXAs failure to investigate the claim properly, and communicate their decision to 
settle the claim in good time; and the financial impact of paying more for the cost of 
insurance at renewal. 
My final decision 
For the reasons provided my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman