DRN-4121553
The complaint
Miss M complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs decision to decline claims made under her 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M has a lifetime pet insurance policy underwritten by Allianz, which covers her cat (who 
Ill call D).
Miss M took out the policy on 17 March 2022. In July and August 2022, she made a series of 
claims after D had treatment which cost over £5,000. The treatment appears to have been 
for acute rhinitis and pneumonia. 
When Miss M bought the policy, she said shed taken D to the vets for a check-up because 
shed had a cold. So, before the policy was agreed, Allianz advised Miss M there would be 
an exclusion written into the policy relating to upper respiratory tract issues.
When Miss M made her claims, Allianz referred to that exclusion as the reason for declining 
the claims. Miss M pointed out that pneumonia wasnt an upper respiratory tract condition. 
So, Allianz sought more information from the treating vet.
The vet confirmed the issue was pneumonia  and wasnt an upper respiratory tract 
problem. 
He also sent Ds clinical notes. These showed that D had been to the vet three times in 
February and March  just before Miss M bought the policy. 
On the first occasion (21 February 2022) the issue had been sneezing and nasal discharge. 
On the second occasion (3 March 2022) it has been sneezing and discharge, with some 
blood. And on the third occasion (17 March 2022  the day Miss M bought her policy) it has 
been profuse sneezing, with bloody snots and coughing.
On that basis, Allianz decided to change the exclusion (set when Miss M had said D had had 
a cold) to cover the whole of the respiratory tract. And at that point, they confirmed their 
decision to decline the claims. But they also apologised that it had taken so long to come to 
the conclusion they had and paid Miss M £75 in compensation for the delay. 
Miss M wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Allianz. She thought the rhinitis 
(evident in February and March 2022 before she bought the policy) wasnt related to the 
pneumonia  and that Allianz should pay the claims relating to the pneumonia investigations 
and treatment.
After again approaching Miss Ms vet - and seeking an independent opinion from another vet 
- Allianz maintained their position. They said the earlier issues and the pneumonia were 
likely linked. And they had both in any case been in evidence before Miss M bought the 
policy.
And they referred Miss M to the policy terms, which allow them to decline claims relating to 
conditions which predate the inception of a policy.
Miss M wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong.
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that the policy terms allow Allianz to decline claims for pre-existing 
conditions. And theres no doubt Miss M was  or ought to have been  aware of that when 
she bought the policy.
Miss M and her vet believe D had two separate conditions  what turned out to be rhinitis 
(described by Miss M when she bough the policy as a cold) and pneumonia. And they 
believe the pneumonia isnt linked to the rhinitis. 
So, given that the pneumonia was a completely new condition in July and August 2022, they 
say Allianz should pay the claims for treatment of that condition.
Allianzs in-house vet thought the two conditions were very likely to be linked. And when 
Miss Ms vet was subsequently pressed on this point, he said didnt know for sure, might well 
be wrong, but there wasnt evidence the two conditions were linked so far. 
On the basis of that difference of opinion, Allianz quite reasonably sought the advice of a 
third, independent vet. Their view was reasonably unequivocal. They said the two conditions 
were co-existing and treated at the same time, which suggests they were linked. 
They also said it was absolutely clear from the clinical records that both conditions  rhinitis 
and pneumonia  pre-dated the inception of the policy. The key evidence for that being the 
consultation notes from February and March 2022 (before Miss M bought the policy) which 
noted not only severe sneezing and discharge, but blood in the discharge and coughing.
In summary, three experts  vets  have taken a view on this case. One says there is no 
conclusive evidence as yet to link the two conditions but admits he might well be wrong. 
The second (Allianzs in-house vet) thought it very likely the conditions were linked and pre-
existing. The third  and independent - vet said the conditions were linked and both 
absolutely pre-existed the inception of the policy.
So, on balance, Im satisfied  bearing in mind the weight of the expert evidence in this case 
 that it was not unreasonable or unfair for Allianz to conclude that the conditions were likely 
linked and were certainly pre-existing. That being the case, they were entitled under he 
terms of the policy to decline Miss Ms claims.
I am very sorry to hear about Ds health problems. And I fully understand Miss Ms hope that 
the treatment would be covered under her policy, but in light of the evidence we have, I cant 
reasonably uphold Miss Ms complaint about Allianz declining her claims.
Before the complaint was brought to us, Allianz recognised that their decision-making  and 
explanations to Miss M  might have been quicker. But Im satisfied the £75 they paid 
Miss M in compensation for her trouble and upset was sufficient given the relatively minor 
delay and the fact that Miss M was already aware that Allianz had declined the claims.   My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman