DRN-2204024
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with her loan 
application.
What happened
Miss D was told by Halifax that it was highly likely  she would be accepted for a loan if she 
applied for one. She says she applied for a loan but the application was refused and if the 
loan had been applied for in branch then it may have been approved as adjustments could 
have been made to it. Miss D says she held a number of products with Halifax and so 
questions why it said it likely she would be offered the loan. She also complains about how a 
call was dealt with and says the process is not appropriate, which should be amended. Miss 
D says she would like compensation for whats taken place and for Halifax to change the 
way in which it deals with these sorts of matters. She also says that information was 
reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Halifax says it hasnt made a mistake and makes clear that any loan offer is subject to a full 
application and checks being made. It says that is what took place here, that Miss Ds loan 
application was assessed and was declined due to reasons that included affordability and 
her reliance on an overdraft. It also says it will report information to the CRAs and its up to it 
to decide what its process is on a loan application and how it deals with customers after a 
loan decision is made.
Miss D brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it was up to Halifax to decide on lending applications and thought it was entitled to 
reject Miss Ds application based on the evidence. And thought it likely she was told that an 
application would be subject to a full assessment and no guarantee was given that a loan 
would be approved. The investigator didnt think Halifax was obliged to tell Miss D to attend 
a branch or that the call was dealt with inappropriately.
Miss D doesnt accept that view and says she wasnt made aware that other credit 
information would be taken into account if she applied for the loan and questions why Halifax 
would suggest a loan would be approved when it was later rejected. And says she should 
have been told why the loan was refused without her calling Halifax. In summary Miss D 
says she was placed in a worse position by applying for the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Halifax has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate that Miss D will be disappointed by my decision and about how 
strongly she feels about this complaint.
I appreciate Halifax told Miss D that she would be highly likely to receive a loan if she 
applied. But Im satisfied Miss D was not given any guarantee any application would be 
granted, and Im satisfied that Halifax told her that the application would be subject to a full 
review. I also think Miss D ought to have realised that based on the information she was 
given. And that Halifax did explain the reasons why the loan application was refused.
Im satisfied that Halifax is entitled to decide, when exercising its commercial judgement, to 
whom it lends and its not our role to interfere in such decisions. Im also satisfied that its up 
to Halifax to decide what its process is about these matters and the information it provides to 
customers when an application is rejected or if it should contact customers as Miss D would 
like. We are not Halifaxs regulator and so its not our role to comment on such matters.
I think it was Miss Ds choice to apply for the loan online and that she could have made the 
application in branch if she wished. I think it unlikely that would have made any difference to 
the outcome as its likely Halifaxs specialist lending team would have looked at the 
application. And Miss D was entitled to appeal the lending decision is she wished or thought 
that the application she made wasnt a fair reflection of her financial position.
I have listened to the call between the parties and Im satisfied Halifax fairly dealt with it and 
explained the reasons why the loan application was refused. I also think Halifax explained 
what its processes were in these circumstances and that it didnt accuse Miss D of 
manipulating the system. 
Overall, I appreciate Miss Ds concerns about Halifaxs loan process. I hope she 
understands that its not our role to order Halifax to change that process or to provide 
customers in Miss Ds position the information she says should be given. I also think that 
Halifax made clear that search information would be reported on Miss Ds credit file and not 
any adverse information. I have not seen any evidence that any adverse information has 
been recorded and I cant fairly ask Halifax to remove that search information.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman