DRN-3099610
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service provided by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
when implementing his pension sharing order (PSO).
What happened
In March 2020 the court made a PSO as part of Mr Ds divorce settlement. The PSO 
entitled Mr Ds ex-wife to 33% of the Cash Equivalent Value (CEV) from each of his three 
specified pension accounts held with Aviva.
Mr D wanted Aviva to calculate the total value of the 33% pension credit across all three 
accounts and then use the total cash funds available across all three accounts to pay the 
pension credit to his ex-wifes new pension arrangement.
Aviva agreed to use the cash first before selling down the investments. It said this could 
only be done after the value of the pension credit was known (after Mr Ds ex-wife 
signed the pre-implementation form or the transfer instruction).
When Aviva implemented the PSO, it used the cash in each of the pensions accounts 
first and then sold down funds to make up the remaining pension credit of 33% from 
each account if there was a shortfall in that particular account.
Mr D was unhappy that Aviva had sold down investments. Mr D thought Aviva had acted 
unfairly and should have used the cash funds available across all three accounts to make 
up, overall, the 33% pension credit, before selling down investments.
In Mr Ds view Aviva also acted unfairly it is choice of date for valuing the three pension 
accounts.
Mr D complained to Aviva. It didnt uphold his complaint. It felt the court order was 
implemented correctly using the correct effective date and valuation date for the 
calculations. It took the view that Aviva had complied with the terms of the court order by 
treating each pension account separately when deciding if there were enough cash funds 
available in that pension account to pay a 33% pension credit from that account. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr D came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and did not uphold it. He concluded, in 
summary:
that Aviva had not done anything wrong. 
it had complied with the terms of the court order made on 16 March 2020 when it 
treated each pension account separately to determine the amount of the 33% 
pension credit.
that the valuation date Aviva selected was not inappropriate.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said, in summary:
his complaint was about how Aviva managed the PSO process given the autonomy it 
had and its broken promise to use the available cash within the pension account 
ending 340, rather than treating the 3 sub-policies within that account separately.
If the sub-policies were an important factor, he should have been advised of that by 
Aviva so that he could take appropriate action.
Aviva had no regard for his interests or specific requests and followed only its own 
internal processes. 
Aviva was hiding behind the smoke screen of the Welfare Reform and Pensions Act 
1999 (WRPA), it could have acted differently.
It had taken a considerable length of time to get to this point, causing him 
unnecessary distress and need and he had suffered financial loss.
Too much emphasis had been placed on the law rather than the process Aviva 
adopted to process the PSO. 
Mr D also sent in information from a public sector pension scheme about its process for 
implementing PSOs. He said this scheme used the effective date determined by the court to 
determine the benefits payable, regardless of the transfer date and this was a more fair and 
appropriate approach. Mr D also said this scheme provided a clearer explanation of the 
transfer process to the parties in advance, which Aviva failed to provide.
Mr Ds complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says that too much emphasis is being placed on the legal requirements and 
insufficient on the process as a whole. In deciding whether Aviva did anything wrong, I 
need first to look at whether Aviva was acting within the law and then to look at whether its 
approach was fair and reasonable.
The Pension Sharing Order
Aviva had an obligation to act in accordance with the PSO made on 16 March 2020 and 
to comply with the legal requirements applying to these orders. 
The PSO said Mr Ds ex-wife was entitled to 33% of the CEV from all three of his Aviva 
pension accounts. These were listed individually by reference number.
Relevant law
Aviva and our investigator referred Mr D to various definitions from the WRPA 1999 and 
associated regulations. I dont intend to set these out in full below. 
Mr Ds PSO was made on the 16 March 2020. The effective date for his order was 28 
days after the making of the order  that being 13 April 2020. The effective date is 
generally the date when the benefits stop accruing under the pension scheme. It is not 
the same as the valuation date  see below.The four-month period to implement the order begins, according to Section 34(1) of the 
WRPA, on the later of (i) the effective date, and (ii) the date on which the person 
responsible for the arrangement is in receipt of all of the information required by them to 
implement the order. In Mr Ds case (ii) above applied, the implementation period began 
from when his ex-wife returned the required information to Aviva.
The valuation date is the day during the four-month implementation period on which the 
cash equivalent value of the relevant pension benefits is actually calculated. The person 
responsible for the relevant arrangement may specify which day this is within the four-
month window. This is set out at section 29(7) of WRPA.
So, the actual valuation date was a date to be selected by Aviva within the four-month 
implementation period.
Selling down investments 
Mr D wanted Aviva to use the cash he had across his three pension accounts to pay the 
pension credit. 
In Avivas email of 1 June 2020, it said My legal department has now confirmed that how 
we generated the cash value to transfer is not legislative however, having established the 
value of the plan, we cannot primarily use the cash account to provide the pension credit if 
it covers it. The standard practice is to realise the credit as a proportion of each type of 
investment or fund. As Mr D has asked that we do not do this and use cash from the plan 
therefore we can do this however we cannot ascertain a value to be transferred until we 
have all the requirements to implement the Pension sharing order (awaiting ex-spouse 
signed pre implementation form or signed transfer instruction).
The PSO said that a pension credit of 33% was payable from each pension account. Had 
Aviva taken cash from another pension account (or sub-account as Mr D referred to it as) 
to make up a cash shortfall in a different pension account (or sub-account), Aviva would 
have been acting outside of the terms of the court order. A 33% share was payable from 
each account according to the terms of the order.
Where there was not enough cash in a particular account to discharge the 33% pension 
credit, Aviva sold down investments to make up the pension credit to the required level. It 
seems to me Aviva did take on board Mr Ds preference for using the cash up first, in so far 
as it could, but that it couldnt fully meet his request to effectively merge the accounts for 
PSO purposes, because it would have been in breach of the court order had it done so.
Mr D said that Aviva should have informed him of the significance of the wording of the 
PSO in relation to the three (sub) accounts. I cant see that Mr D has lost out financially as 
a result. As Aviva explained, it was open to it (and its standard approach) to realise the 
pension credit by selling down 33% of each type of investment, using just 33% of the 
available cash from each account towards the pension credit. It didnt do that, it acceded to 
Mr Ds request as far as it could and used the cash available in each account first. So, I 
cant see that Mr D has lost out financially because of this. 
I cant see that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably given the terms of this particular PSO.
Valuation dateMr D believes the Effective Date/Valuation Date Aviva has used to implement the PSO 
is unfair or inappropriate.
Aviva clearly explained to Mr Ds financial advisor on 17 June 2020 that the Effective Date 
and the Valuation Date were not the same.
Ive not seen anything to show that the valuation date selected by Aviva was chosen so as 
to deliberately compromise Mr Ds position. The date selected was the date the information 
was returned by his ex-wife to enable the PSO to be implemented. 
The WRPA allowed Aviva to decide the valuation date within the four-month 
implementation period. Parliament decided to give persons responsible for implementing 
PSOs that discretion. Different schemes may adopt different approaches, but providing the 
legal requirements are met, those different approaches are still lawful. So, I cant fairly 
conclude that Avivas process is unfair just because another scheme may use a different 
valuation date within the four-month window. 
Aviva needed to implement the PSO as per the court order and in compliance with 
the relevant law. Im satisfied it has done so here. I do not find that its processes 
were unfair or unreasonable. I therefore make no award.
Mr D complains that Aviva should have done more to explain the process to him. Its 
possible that some of Avivas communications could have been clearer, but for the 
reasons I have explained above I do not consider that Mr D has lost out financially as a 
result.  Aviva did have some discretion in the way that it managed the process and I cant 
see that it acted unfairly in the way it acted. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman