DRN-3916259
The complaint
Mr A complains about his home emergency insurance policy with British Gas Insurance 
Limited. 
Any reference to British Gas includes the actions of any agents  such as engineers acting 
on their behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr A and British Gas. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr A had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. In November 2021, Mr A 
reported an issue with his dishwasher and British Gas arranged a number of visits to Mr As 
property. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr A let British Gas know he was unhappy with how theyd handled 
things and alleged that their engineer was responsible for a freezer defrosting - resulting in a 
loss of food worth around £360. Mr A made a separate claim against his home insurance 
policy with anther insurer for the loss. Mr A also expressed dissatisfaction with pipes he 
alleges were damaged by a British Gas engineer. 
British Gas considered the complaint and offered Mr A a total of £175 for the service hed 
received. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr A referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that British Gas needed to 
do anything further. Mr A didnt accept the recommendation and his complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened  based on the available evidence. 
Was the loss or damage Mr A is claiming for caused by the actions of British Gas agents?
Mr A says hes suffered two separate losses. The first was the defrosting of food in a freezer 
which he says was caused by the engineers actions. British Gas have disputed this and said 
their engineer didnt go near the freezer during their visits.
On balance, Ive not seen sufficiently persuasive evidence to conclude that British Gas are 
liable for the loss here. The defrosting process can take many hours and often freezers 
(similar to fridges) will have an alarm or alert to indicate when a door is left open. I 
appreciate this will vary dependant on the model. Ive also kept in mind that the engineer 
hadnt been called out to deal with any freezer issues - so they wouldve had no good reason 
to be interfering with a freezer.
The other loss alleged was damage to plumbing/pipes. In a call with our Service, Mr A said 
an engineer damaged a pipe when moving the dishwasher. The job notes from British Gas 
indicate that the pipes in question were blocked by grease or fat. Again, theres no strong, 
persuasive supporting evidence  such as an independent report, that would allow me to 
fairly conclude that British Gas damaged the pipe work. 
Other issues raised 
Mr A was unhappy with a claim being recorded against this policy. But, as hes claimed 
against this policy - British Gas can fairly record that a claim has been made. 
In June 2022, Mr A enquired about cancelling the policy because of his dissatisfaction and a 
cancellation fee of around £100 was generated. This was in line with the relevant policy 
terms as a claim had been made on the policy. On this and the previous point, I dont find 
that British Gas have treated Mr A unfairly. 
Ive noted that Mr A has referred to making a claim on his home insurance policy (with a 
different insurer) following these events. As Ive not found supporting evidence to fairly 
conclude that British Gas are at fault for the defrosting issue or the pipework damage, I wont 
comment further on this or any policy excess that Mr A has had to pay on another policy. 
How have British Gas treated Mr A overall?
Ive noted Mr A has raised an issue with a specific agent at British Gas  in particular that 
theyd accepted that an accident had taken place during the engineers visits but then 
changed the narrative. Whilst complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity, as outlined 
above - Ive not seen any sufficiently persuasive evidence that British Gas are liable for Mr 
As losses here and a comment/opinion that an individual agent may have made when trying 
to resolve a complaint doesnt override the rest of the available evidence on file here. 
British Gas have acknowledged the service provided, at times, fell below what would 
reasonably be expected. In recognition of this, they offered Mr A £175. Having considered 
everything thats happened, I find this to be fair, reasonable and proportionate - relative to 
the impact on Mr A. I dont require British Gas to do anything further here.
My decision may disappoint Mr A, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this dispute between him and British Gas. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman