DRN-4023331
The complaint
Ms F has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited wont cover the costs of 
undamaged matching carpets when she made a claim to her home insurer for damage she 
says it caused. 
All reference to British Gas in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In July 2022 Ms F contacted British Gas to repair a fault with her hot water tank. Works were 
carried out by an engineer. Shortly after the engineer left, the tank flooded water into Ms Fs 
home from upstairs. 
Ms F said she had matching carpet throughout her home. Her home insurer dealt with an 
escape of water claim and agreed to meet the costs of the damaged carpets only - not the 
undamaged carpets. As they no longer matched, Ms F decided to pay for the undamaged 
carpets to be replaced to match the replacements that were damaged by the escape of 
water. She says British Gas should reimburse her for these costs. 
British Gas didnt agree. In response to Ms Fs complaint, British Gas accepted responsibility 
for the flooding of water into Ms Fs home from the repairs carried out by the engineer. It 
apologised and paid Ms F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms F remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said British Gas were 
unhelpful and told her she would need to make an escape of water claim to her main home 
insurance provider. She said British Gas advised it would only meet the costs of the heating 
system and plumbing element of the damage caused. 
British Gas told us it was Ms Fs choice to make a claim under her home insurance policy. It 
said it accepted responsibility for damaged carpets, but not undamaged carpets. It says Ms 
Fs home insurer has settled Ms Fs claim (but excluded replacing undamaged carpets) and 
is looking to recover the costs of the claim including Ms Fs excess from their insurer. 
Our Investigator thought Ms F shouldnt have needed to make a claim under her home 
insurance policy. He thought British Gas, having accepted responsibility for the escape of 
water, should have put things right by meeting Ms Fs costs for rectification works. 
The Investigator recommended British Gas increase the compensation it paid from £200 to 
£750. He recommended it reimburse Ms F for the costs to replace the remaining carpets to 
match the replacement of the damaged carpets. 
British Gas didnt agree. It says it accepted liability for the damage. But the reason why Ms F 
made a claim under her home insurance policy was because she wanted the costs to 
replace undamaged carpets to be met, which British Gas didnt agree it was responsible for. 
Ms F didnt agree. She said she wanted British Gas to cover her uninsured losses and put 
her back in the position she was in before it caused the damage by meeting the costs to 
replace undamaged carpets to match the replaced ones. She said she knew her home 
insurer wouldnt cover her uninsured losses.
British Gas said Ms Fs home insurer is looking to recover the costs of Ms Fs claim from 
their insurer - and this is ongoing. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2023. I thought British Gas should pay 
compensation of £750 and I didnt think it should have been necessary for Ms F to have 
made a claim against her home insurance policy - as British Gas was responsible for the 
event and the poor service that flowed from its handling of the incident. But I didnt think it 
reasonable for British Gas to meet the costs to replace undamaged carpets through the rest 
of Ms Fs home. 
British Gas accepted my provisional decision. Ms F didnt agree. Ive addressed her 
comments in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has told us that their insurer is dealing with Ms Fs home insurer in relation to 
recovering the costs of the claim from them. And its told us - as Ms F has confirmed - that 
her home insurer hasnt met the costs to replace all of the carpets in her home. It has met 
the costs to replace the damaged carpets. 
So - as an insurer will only meet the costs of incident related damage - it seems there was 
no benefit to Ms F making a claim under her home insurance policy. In fact, as she now has 
a claim under her policy, this may have an impact on future premiums, and its possible Ms F 
may be worse off. And the decision to make a claim under her home insurers meant the 
repairs were delayed. Ms F had to pay an excess as the first part of the claim and will have 
to wait for successful recovery of the costs from British Gas insurer before a refund can be 
considered by her home insurer.
In response to the Investigators view, British Gas says it didnt direct Ms F to her home 
insurers and accepted liability for all of the damage caused - this was a decision she made 
because she wanted British Gas to meet the costs to replace undamaged carpets. 
Our Investigator asked British Gas to provide evidence to support its disagreement with what 
was discussed with Ms F, by way of a call recording or email to Ms F confirming what British 
Gas said it would cover. Without such evidence, the Investigator found Ms Fs account 
plausible as to why she approached her home insurer. 
In response, British Gas accepts it hasnt provided evidence of what it told Ms F. But it says 
Ms F hasnt provided evidence either. I think its reasonable to expect British Gas as a 
business rather than Ms F to hold evidence such as a call recording 
So without a recording of the key call(s) to listen to or an email to Ms F confirming the 
agreement of what it would cover, on the balance of probabilities I think its more likely than 
not that Ms F contacted her home insurers based on the information British Gas gave her . 
And that this information led her to believe British Gas would pay only for the heating system 
and plumbing elements covered under her policy. In other words, that British Gas didnt 
agree to meet the costs of damaged carpets. I havent seen anything to show me that the 
reason why Ms F approached her insurers was to have the costs of undamaged carpets to 
be met - which wasnt covered in any event. 
In response to my provisional decision, Ms F says British Gas only responded when a 
contractor emailed it to describe the damage, the repair(s) and explained that Ms F had 
been without hot water for 13 days.I agree with Ms F that British Gas caused unnecessary delay and upset - I think Ms Fs 
home could have been repaired much sooner and been clear about what it would cover with 
arrangements to put things right. Ms F has described the impact the delay due to making a 
claim with her home insurer has had on her. She says she had to contact her GP due to 
stress, she was working from home, and was left with concrete floors and no electricity and 
hot water for a couple of weeks. As Ive said, I dont think it was necessary for Ms F to have 
had to make a claim under her home insurance policy. British Gas has agreed to pay the 
recommended compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Ms F.
In my provisional decision I said British Gas had reimbursed Ms F for the costs she paid for 
temporary equipment while she was without hot water. Ms F says British Gas didnt pay this 
to her. She provided email exchanges between her and British Gas in August 2022. Here, 
British Gas asked Ms F to provide receipts for the items and that it would need confirmation 
from the home insurer that it wasnt including these costs.
Ive checked what British Gas said in its final response letter dated 5 September 2022. It 
wrote:
Our claims team have advised they can refund you a total of £134. 48. This covers 
your claim for the camping shower, bucket and bathroom mats. You have advised 
you do not accept this refund, so they will not be processing this unless you contact 
them to change your mind.
I apologise for the confusion I caused in my provisional decision as I wrote that British Gas 
had reimbursed this payment. If Ms F wishes to accept reimbursement of this amount, she 
can contact British Gas in line with its final response. 
With claims involving matching sets, we take the view that an insurer should replace the 
damaged items and pay half of the cost to replace the undamaged items. We think this is 
fair. 
British Gas in this case isnt paying for damage caused by an insured event, but due to an 
error by its agent. We would therefore usually take the view that the business cover the cost 
of replacing the whole set of matching items. Primarily, because the damage is their fault. 
So - if I believed that all of the carpets in Ms Fs house were a matching set, Id ask British 
Gas to pay the full cost of replacing all of them. 
However, Ive seen photos provided by Ms F and her home insurer showing me the carpets 
before and after the replacement. The photos show me that the carpet isnt laid continuously 
throughout the house. There are dividers between them. The dividers are key - as they run 
across the doorway opening between the rooms. 
We take the view that usually, where rooms are divided in that way, the carpets either side of 
the divider are not part of a matching set.
Ms F says that as far as she is aware, all rooms have dividers between them. She believes 
her case shouldnt be treated as an insurance claim, but as an uninsured loss which British 
Gas should pay for as it has breached its contract. 
I understand Ms F chose to have the undamaged carpets replaced to match the damaged 
ones at her own cost. It may seem arbitrary to draw a line based on whether there are room 
dividers or not. But in my provisional decision I asked Ms F to consider that a line has to be 
drawn somewhere and that we look at what is fair and reasonable overall. I dont think it fair 
to expect British Gas to pay to replace all of the carpets in Ms Fs home when some rooms - 
and the carpets in those rooms - were unaffected by the damage caused by the escape of 
water. 
Ms F has asked why the line shouldnt be drawn in her favour in light of the poor service she 
received from British Gas. But the poor handling of the incident - and the request to have the costs of undamaged carpets met - are different things. Ive addressed the poor handling of 
the incident separately in my decision. 
I understand Ms F doesnt agree with my view here. She believes my decision is in British 
Gas favour. But I think British Gas isnt responsible for paying the costs to replace 
undamaged carpets - separated by dividers across other rooms - that were unaffected by the 
damage as they did not form part of a matching set. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms F a further 
£550 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by Ms F making a 
claim under her home insurance policy for damage caused by British Gass agent. This is in 
addition to the £200 British Gas awarded (and should pay if it hasnt already paid) for its poor 
handling of the incident. 
This brings the total compensation award to £750. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman