DRN-3175402
The complaint
Mr G and Ms S complain about Nationwide Building Societys process when deciding to 
terminate their banking facilities.
What happened
Mr G and Ms S live overseas. In November 2020, Nationwide communicated with Mr G and 
Ms S to let them know that they would be closing their account as a result of the UKs 
decisions to leave the European Union (EU). Mr G and Ms S complained to Nationwide, but 
they werent prepared to change their decision and closed the account in January 2021.
Mr G and Ms S are concerned at the way Nationwide dealt with this. While they appreciate 
Nationwide gave them 60 days notice  they dont feel this was enough time given the 
current climate of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr G and Ms S werent able to travel due to 
restrictions and therefore said they couldnt easily arrange other banking facilities. They 
wanted Nationwide to give them extra time.
Mr G and Ms S also complained to Nationwide and repeatedly tried to arrange a phone call 
to discuss their options going forward. Nationwide didnt respond to Mr G and Ms S request 
until the same day the account was due to close. Mr G and Ms S strongly feel that if a phone 
call was made before, they would have had appropriate time to consider their options.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary she said, Nationwide were entitled 
to make the decision to close Mr G and Ms S account. She also didnt think Nationwide not 
calling Mr G and Ms S back had an impact on the closure - so she didnt think they needed 
to do anything to put things right. Mr G and Ms S disagreed. They asked for an ombudsman 
to review things.
In July 2021, one of our ombudsmen spoke to Mr G. Mr G explained that while Nationwide 
may have followed their process  Mr G didnt think it was fair. Our ombudsman asked Mr G 
if he held an account elsewhere  and Mr G confirmed he did, with another bank. Mr G also 
said he and Ms S had lost around £50,000 due to the borrow back facility on their mortgage 
being removed. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me 
to review.
Earlier in November 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
The account closure
Firstly, I think its worth pointing out that the UK left the EU on 31 January 2020. Under the 
terms of the Withdrawal Agreement between the parties, an implementation period was put 
in place until 31 December 2020. Under those arrangements, FCA-authorised businesses 
based in the UK  such as Nationwide  were permitted to provide their services into the 
European Economic Area (EEA) using the passporting scheme. That implementation period 
has ended and in the absence of a replacement agreement or a licence to operate, 
Nationwide no longer has permission to provide banking services in many EEA countries  
including the one where Mr G and Ms S live. 
Like other financial businesses, Nationwide can apply for a licence if they wish to provide 
banking services to Mr G and Ms S country of residence. But this is something they are 
entitled to decide for themselves. Ive got no power to require them to do so  and it 
appears, Nationwide have decided not to warrant that licence. I appreciate how strongly 
Mr G and Ms S feel about this  and while Im aware the closure itself isnt the crux of Mr G 
and Ms S complaint, I thought it was worth highlighting why I think Nationwides actions 
were reasonable.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide treated Mr G and Ms S fairly when closing their 
account. Generally, banks and building societies may close an account if its line with the 
terms and conditions of the account  and providing they give adequate notice. In Mr G and 
Ms S cases, I can see that the account agreement does entitle Nationwide to close the 
account by giving at least 60 days notice. Nationwide informed Mr G and Ms S in November 
2020, and the account was closed in January 2021. Therefore, based on this, Im satisfied 
Nationwide complied with their agreement with Mr G and Ms S, and gave them plenty of 
additional time to make alternative arrangements. Mr G and Ms S think Nationwide should 
have given more than 60 days notice due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the restrictions this 
crisis put on the world. Mr G explained it would have been easier to sort out his finances if 
he was in the UK at the time  but he couldnt travel. I understand why Mr G feels this way, 
but in order to uphold his complaint on this part, Id need to be satisfied Nationwide acted 
unfairly. They gave the appropriate amount of notice they were required to give, so despite 
the external factors which surrounded, I cant fairly say they did anything wrong. 
Responding to Mr Gs request for a call back
When Mr G and Ms S became aware of Nationwides intention to close their accounts, they 
attempted to talk to Nationwide. Mr G has explained that he tried multiple forms of different 
communication and was unsuccessful in receiving a response. While I havent seen any 
evidence of these contact attempts, I have no reason to disbelieve Mr G. So, Ive thought 
about whether this had an overall impact. Firstly, I think it would have been better customer 
service if Nationwide responded to Mr G and Ms S in a timelier manner when they requested 
a call back.
Nationwide was able to speak to Mr G  albeit, it happened to be on or around the same day 
as the intended closure. Mr G feels this didnt give him enough time to explore his options. I 
can understand why Mr G feels this way, but I dont think its made an overall difference to 
the outcome of the complaint. I say that because Mr G and Ms S didnt have any alternative 
options to discuss with Nationwide. Ultimately Nationwide gave notice of Mr G and Ms S 
account closing because they no longer had the authority to provide banking facilities to 
them. Therefore, while I recognise an earlier phone call would have been better service, it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the position Mr G and Ms S found themselves in. Its also 
since come to light that Mr G has a UK account with another banking provider. So, taking 
that into account, I think he had ample time to take the appropriate action he needed to 
when he became aware of the upcoming account closure.
The borrow back facility
Mr G and Ms S feel theyre at a £50,000 loss as they can no longer take advantage of the 
borrow back facility Nationwide offered them on their mortgage. The borrow back facility 
allowed customers  in this case, Mr G and Ms S, to borrow back any overpayments theyd 
made towards their mortgage. 
I can understand why to have this as an option and it then to be removed would be 
financially challenging, so Im sorry Mr G and Ms S found themselves in this position. 
However, I have to think about whether I think Nationwide did anything wrong by withdrawing this facility  and I cant fairly say they did. Ive explained above why Nationwide 
no longer has permission to provide banking services so I consider the actions they took 
were necessary. Ive also seen correspondence that confirms if Mr G and Ms S became UK 
residents, Nationwide would have allowed Mr G and Ms S to transact on the mortgage 
account. Im aware Mr G and Ms S have now redeemed their Nationwide mortgage, so I 
think theyve acted efficiently in mitigating any further loss to themselves.
So, overall, while I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr G and Ms S, I couldnt reasonably 
find a reason to uphold the complaint.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments. 
Mr G and Ms S responded and said that while theyre disappointed with the outcome overall, 
they found some comfort that I confirmed the customer service could have been better. Mr G 
and Ms S also confirmed that they acknowledge the 60 days notice would, under normal 
circumstances, have been adequate  but they feel given the circumstances which 
surrounded at the time, they think more notice should have been given. They also recognise 
Nationwide used flexibility to suit themselves and therefore feels the overall process is 
unfair. 
As both parties responded before the provisional decision deadline, I have progressed with 
my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I feel it important to point out that were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Our rules do, 
however, allow us to consider if the correct process has been followed  and if we feel that it 
has been followed fairly.
Ive thought carefully about Mr G and Ms S comments  and I can understand why they feel 
Nationwide flexing their own processes but wouldnt extend the deadline of closing Mr G and 
Ms S accounts are unfair. I can only comment on the circumstances of this complaint alone 
 and therefore I cant consider Nationwides actions which fall outside of the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Im aware Mr G and Ms S held another UK account with a third-party bank. Ive mentioned 
this here as I feel this is pivotal to my overall decision. I consider having another UK account 
meant 60 days notice would have been ample time for Mr G and Ms S to move their 
finances. I recognise they werent in the UK at the time  and I agree it would have been 
easier if they were but its more likely than not they could have used other facilities to move 
finances between the two banks without being in the branch. 
Ultimately, Nationwide didnt have the remit to continue to operate Mr G and Ms S accounts. 
They gave the notice they should, and based on the circumstances of this complaint, I think 
that amount of notice period was enough  even taking into account the location of Mr G and 
Ms S and the restrictions which surrounded them at the time.  
Im aware Mr G and Ms S feel let down by this overall message, and Im sorry I cant uphold 
the complaint in the way theyd like. But I cant reasonably say Nationwide have done 
anything wrong  so it follows that I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right. 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman