DRN-2773529
The complaint
Mr G complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) misrepresented a finance 
agreement to him as it transpired it was a 48-month agreement and not the 60-month 
agreement he was led to believe he was entering into.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
If Mr G was told something that was false and if that false information led him to enter into an 
agreement he most likely would not have entered into, had it not been for that false 
information, I would think the agreement was misrepresented to him.
The relevant legislation explains that the finance provider (MotoNovo here) are responsible 
for what they say and what the broker (the dealership here) say when negotiating the 
agreement as their representatives. So, I think MotoNovo are responsible for any 
misrepresentation.
Theres not been a lot of evidence provided by either side in this complaint and Ive had to 
make my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. On balance, I am 
persuaded that the agreement was most likely to have been misrepresented to Mr G. I say 
that for the following reasons:
Mr G says he didnt sign the contract and that it was electronically signed for him. Id 
expect MotoNovo to have been able to demonstrate that wasnt the case but whilst 
theyve asserted Mr G did sign the documents electronically theyve not provided any 
proof of that;
the finance documents were electronically signed, allegedly by Mr G, only two and a 
half minutes before they were electronically signed by the dealership. I think that 
supports Mr Gs argument that he didnt sign them. I say that because I would expect 
there to be a longer period between the partys signatures to allow Mr G some time to 
reflect on the agreement;
Mr G complained to MotoNovo only six days after the inception of the agreement and 
as soon as he received the finance documents. I think that suggests he was 
surprised by the agreement hed received, and it was not what he thought hed 
agreed to; 
the dealership explained to MotoNovo that they had text conversations with Mr G that 
showed he was fully aware of the situation. But the dealership havent been able to 
supply those texts;
Mr G has been able to provide a text of his conversation with the dealership. That 
text, from six days after the agreement was signed, shows that Mr G was surprised 
about the contract hed received. He didnt agree with the amount he was being 
asked to pay or the suggestion hed signed any documents. I think that supports Mr 
Gs position.
I think its likely that Mr G was told this was to be a five-year agreement and, considering his 
actions after he realised that wasnt the case, I think he would not have been likely to have 
entered into the agreement if that false statement of fact hadnt been made to him.
Putting things right
Ive therefore thought about how to put Mr G back, as much as is possible, in the position he 
would have been in had the misrepresentation not have happened.
MotoNovo should take the car back and end the agreement with nothing more to pay.
They should refund any deposit Mr G has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they should add interest to the refund.
Its clear Mr G has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes remained responsible for 
monthly payments that were higher than he thought he could afford, for several months and 
has had to pursue a claim through this service when I think it could have been resolved 
earlier. In those circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay him £100 to compensate him 
for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
But Mr G has had use of the car he clearly wanted, and, in those circumstances, I think its 
fair he pays the monthly instalments he has and Im not asking MotoNovo to refund any of 
those.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
allow Mr G to reject the car and end his finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr G;
refund any deposit Mr G has paid and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr G £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove the credit agreement from Mr Gs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman