DRN-3278081
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) reported a search to his credit 
file without just cause.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr M noticed that RBS had registered a beneficiary trace enquiry on his 
credit file a few months earlier, In October 2020. Mr M didnt feel that there was any reason 
that RBS should have recorded such a search on his credit file, so he raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Mr Ms complaint. They confirmed to Mr M that a beneficiary trace enquiry 
wouldnt be visible to other potential credit providers and that only Mr M would be able to see 
the search on his credit file. RBS also confirmed that they had no record of Mr M applying for 
any RBS products that would warrant a trace enquiry, so that apologised to Mr M for 
recording the search and agreed to instruct the credit reference agencies to remove the 
search from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mr M had been inconvenienced 
by what had happened, including that hed had to chase RBS about the removal of the 
search following RBSs complaint response. Because of this, out investigator recommended 
that RBS should make a payment of £75 to Mr M as compensation for any inconvenience 
and upset caused.
RBS accepted the recommendations put forwards by our investigator and made a payment 
of £75 to Mr M. However, Mr M didnt feel that our investigators recommendations went far 
enough, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr M, having discovered the trace search conducted by RBS, might 
have wanted for the search to have been removed from his credit file.
RBS have accepted Mr Ms position on this matter and agreed to instruct the credit reference 
agencies to remove the search from Mr Ms credit file. However, its evident that following 
RBSs response to Mr Ms complaint that Mr M was compelled to contact RBS on several 
further occasions as the search remained visible to him on his credit file.
Our investigator recommended that RBS make a payment of £75 to Mr M because of this, 
and I note that RBS have accepted our investigators recommendation and made the 
payment of £75 to Mr M as a result.
Im also aware that Mr M doesnt feel that this £75 payment provides sufficient compensation 
for the trouble and upset that hes incurred whilst trying to resolve this matter, and that 
further compensation should be warranted as a result.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not considered as being such by someone else. However, upon 
consideration of all the circumstances of this complaint, the £75 that RBS have already paid 
to Mr M here does feel fair to me, and Im satisfied that it does provide a reasonable amount 
of compensation to Mr M for what has occurred.
One of the reasons I say this is because its evident that RBS did instruct the credit 
reference agencies to remove the search from Mr Ms credit file within a reasonable amount 
of time, and it seems clear that some of the delay that Mr M experienced in seeing the 
search disappear from his credit file was due to delays attributable to the credit reference 
agencies themselves in actioning the instructions provided to them by RBS, for which I dont 
feel that RBS can fairly be held accountable for.
Furthermore, its also notable that Mr Ms credit file wasnt in any way negatively impacted by 
the presence of the search, given that beneficiary trace enquiries are soft searches and that 
they are visible only to the company conducting the search and to the credit file holder  in 
this case Mr M. RBS explained this point to Mr M in their response to his complaint dated 9 
February 2021 as follows:
Please note that this would not show as a negative marker on your credit file and 
other companies will not be able to see this. Only you will be able to see this 
information.
Im aware that Mr M feels that hes been rejected for credit from other credit providers as a 
result of this search being present on his credit file. However, Id like to reassure Mr M that 
this cant have been the case, given that the search wouldnt have been visible to any credit 
provider other than RBS, as explained above. 
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour, Ill be doing 
so on the same basis as already put forwards by our investigator, the recommendations of 
which have already been complied with by RBS. Consequently, Im satisfied that RBS have 
already met their obligations regarding this complaint, and because of this I wont be 
instructing RBS to take any further action.  
Putting things right
RBS must instruct the credit reference agencies to remove the beneficiary trace enquiry from 
Mr Ms credit file and make a payment to Mr M of £75 as compensation for any upset and 
inconvenience incurred  actions which its my understanding RBS have already completed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc on 
the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman