DRN-3720830
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy how Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) handled her request for help 
to recover money for holiday accommodation that couldnt be used.
What happened
At the end of June 2020, Miss R purchased return flights direct with an airline, and at the 
beginning of July 2020 she booked holiday accommodation through a booking agent, who Ill 
refer to as L. Her trip was scheduled for a week commencing on 30 July 2020 and all 
purchases were made with her Capital One credit card. 
Two weeks before she was due to fly, the airline cancelled the outbound flight. The return 
flight wasnt cancelled at this time. As she was unable to find any alternative flights at short 
notice, Miss R emailed L to cancel the accommodation. 
She hadnt heard from the airline or from L, so Miss R got in touch with Capital One towards 
the end of August 2020 to ask for their help to recover the money. In her initial submission to 
Capital One Miss R told them the accommodation was free to cancel if the cancellation 
happened up to five days before the departure date. Over the course of the next two months, 
there were numerous email exchanges between Miss R and Capital One. Capital One were 
asking for the booking terms and conditions for both purchases, along with confirmation of 
the cancellation policy and that Miss R was entitled to a full refund. While these emails were 
being exchanged, the airline refunded Miss R the total cost for both flights shed booked. 
The accommodation amount remained outstanding. 
Capital One hadnt received the information they requested by the beginning of 
November 2020. Because of this they emailed Miss R to explain they couldnt take her 
request for help any further. 
Miss R contacted Capital One in February 2021 to complain. She was unhappy her claim 
under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) hadnt been dealt with. She 
also said that shed been told not to pay off the transaction, so she was only paying the 
interest each month. Capital One explained that emails had been sent to her asking for 
further information to enable them to consider it further. Miss R said she hadnt received 
these emails. Capital One passed her concerns onto their S75 team. They rejected Miss Rs 
complaint. They said she was now out of time for them to raise a chargeback, even if she 
was able to provide the information theyd been asking for. In relation to S75, they said they 
couldnt raise a claim against the airline, and the relevant debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship wasnt in place between Miss R and the accommodation provider. 
Unhappy with this, Miss R brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She agreed with Capital One that the timeframe for raising a chargeback claim had 
now passed. She also agreed with their explanation as to why a S75 claim couldnt be made. 
She said she hadnt seen any evidence to confirm Miss R had been told not to pay off the 
transaction. She said there had been a conversation between Miss R and Capital One where 
Miss R asked if the interest could be frozen while it was disputed, but Capital One confirmed 
that it couldnt. Our investigator did feel that Capital One could have provided a better 
service at times to Miss R, and a call back that had been promised didnt happen. But she 
didnt think this altered the outcome of any possible chargeback or S75 claim. Overall, she 
said she didnt think Capital One had handled Miss Rs request unfairly. 
As Miss R didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Capital One to ask for a payment Miss R 
made to be refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under S75 of the CCA. S75 says that in certain 
circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the 
credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services. 
Chargeback
I dont think I can offer Miss R too much more than the investigator has already explained 
about the chargeback process in her comprehensive correspondence with her. The card 
scheme rules are set by Mastercard in this case and are very specific. When submitting a 
chargeback, Capital One only have one opportunity and need to ensure they supply enough 
evidence to show why they believe a chargeback right exists. And they only have a certain 
timeframe in which to do so. 
In Miss Rs case Ive seen emails from Capital One throughout September and 
October 2020 in which theyre asking Miss R to supply them with relevant information in 
relation to her booking through L. And Capital One only had 120 days from the 30 July 2020 
(the date Miss R was expecting to use her accommodation) in which to raise the chargeback 
with the merchant. That means they needed the information requested from Miss R by 
sometime in November 2020 to enable them to raise the chargeback. I havent seen 
anything from Miss R or Capital One to suggest the requested evidence  or enough 
evidence - was provided in the specified timeframe allowed. Because of that, Im satisfied 
Capital One acted reasonably by not raising a chargeback claim for Miss R. By the time she 
contacted them in February 2021, it was too late for a chargeback claim to be further 
considered. 
Section 75
There are certain conditions set out in the CCA which need to be satisfied before Capital 
One need to consider whether L breached the contract or made a misrepresentation. These 
include conditions relating to the price of the item(s) purchased, and whether the required relationship between parties as set out in the CCA is in place. In this case Capital One has 
suggested the required relationship between the parties is not in place. I dont think this is a 
straightforward question to answer, because of recent developments in the courts. But in this 
case, I dont think these conditions in the CCA currently make a difference because it hasnt 
been shown that L has breached or misrepresented the contract. I say this because Miss R 
hasnt provided the required information to Capital One. She has said that her booking with L 
allowed her to cancel up to five days before departure free of charge. But I havent seen 
anything that she has provided that confirms that. She also hasnt provided any information 
to confirm the cancellation terms from her booking, or anything that confirms shes entitled to 
a full refund in these circumstances. Capital One asked for this information numerous times. 
I understand that Miss R has said that she didnt receive some of Capital Ones emails, but a 
couple of different email addresses were used, and Miss R did respond to some 
correspondence on both. I dont have anything to suggest other emails werent sent to the 
right email addresses by Capital One.
So, based on everything Ive seen I dont think I need to consider whether the required 
relationship is in place between the parties involved, because I dont think there has been 
breach of contract or misrepresentation here by L for the reasons given. Im satisfied 
Capital One have acted fairly having considered all the evidence provided to our service 
from both parties. 
Miss R has also said that she was told she wouldnt have to pay the transaction while the 
matter was in dispute and has only been paying off the interest as a result. Having listened 
to the calls available between her and Capital One I cant agree that she was told she 
wouldnt have to pay the transaction. It was confirmed to her that it was up to her whether 
she chose to pay the transaction in full or not, and the interest couldnt be frozen while the 
dispute was looked into. So, I wont be asking Capital One to do anything further here. 
However, if Miss R is struggling financially, I would expect Capital One to look at her 
situation sympathetically and work with her to come to a suitable arrangement. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss R as shes out of pocket and has been for 
some time. But I cant say that Capital One have treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman