DRN-2622682
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs A says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And he said that, although BoS says 
it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer as if 
it had. Mrs As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event BoS has paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for 
each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because from what I know about the script that the adviser wouldve 
been required to use, the PPI shouldve been presented as being optional. But in any 
case, I also have a copy of the credit agreement that was sent out after the phone call 
during which the sale took place, and I can see that Mrs A ticked a box and signed  
separately from her signature for the credit  to confirm that she wanted PPI. I think she 
could simply have left that section of the form blank if she didnt want it. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs A, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs As circumstances at the time shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs A was eligible for the cover 
and she said she had no sick pay entitlement from her employer, or any savings she 
couldve relied on if she couldnt work. So she had a need for cover.
 
There was nothing about Mrs As employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs A says she had health problems before the sale, 
one of these was some five years before the sale, and the other, although more recent, 
seems to have been controlled with medication. Mrs A mentioned having had time off 
work because of health problems, but the only date she could remember was some 
years after the sale of the PPI. So on balance I dont have evidence to suggest that Mrs 
A wouldve considered these conditions to be the main reasons why she mightve 
needed to claim on the policy. The policy document also says that a claim couldve been 
considered for a pre-existing condition provided Mrs A had been symptom free and had 
not consulted a doctor or received treatment for the condition within 24 months prior to 
the claim. So overall I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the PPI. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs A as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems as though it 
would have been useful for her if something had gone wrong. Because of this I dont 
think Mrs A would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs As circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs A would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to 
do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs As representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint, including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary it has said Mrs A should get back all the money she paid for the policy, because 
BoS failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims 
ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because, it says, that meant the policy 
was poor value, I should find that Mrs A wouldnt have taken out the policy had she known 
about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mrs As PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs As case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of sections 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Mrs A about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mrs A unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mrs A back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. But in any event BoS has paid back to Mrs A some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipout above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs As complaint or make any award in 
her favour for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs A paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman