DRN-2431925
The complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000 by post. The policy was
taken out at the same time as Mrs M applied for the credit card. It gave her accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she was told without the PPI she wouldnt get the credit card. But Mrs M applied 
by post and it doesnt seem she had any direct contact with Barclays during the application 
process. The form Mrs M completed shows she ticked a box indicating that she wanted to 
take out PPI. And I havent found anything on the form that I think could reasonably have led 
Mrs M to believe the PPI was mandatory. Overall, I think Barclays made Mrs M aware the 
PPI was optional, and she chose to take it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M, so it didnt need to check if it was suitable for
her. This means it was up to Mrs M to decide whether the policy was right for her bearing
in mind her other ways to make her credit card repayments if her circumstances changed.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and
the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. Whilst Mrs M was entitled to 
six months full pay and three months half pay from her employer if she was sick, the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. So, based on her circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it 
unlikely Mrs M wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman