DRN-2578791
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that One Sure Insurance Limited didnt ask the right 
questions when it applied for a commercial motor insurance policy and this led to the policy 
being cancelled by the insurer. D is represented in this matter by a director, Mr T.
 
What happened
Mr T took out a policy through One Sure and he was asked questions about previous claims 
and the extent of his work. The policy was incepted. The insurer then ran checks and asked 
for further information. It then cancelled the policy because of misrepresentation. It later 
agreed this hadnt been deliberate or reckless. D was charged for its time on cover, but all 
other charges were refunded. 
When Mr T complained, the insurer said hed not been asked the correct questions when 
hed taken out the policy. It said if he had then the policy wouldnt have been provided as the 
risks were unacceptable. And so it said it was entitled to cancel the policy. 
Mr T was unhappy that One Sure hadnt asked all the relevant questions to collect all the 
necessary information for the contract. He thought that if it had, then the policy wouldnt have 
been provided and the cancellation would have been avoided. He wanted compensation for 
the losses D had incurred. 
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. She 
thought One Sure hadnt asked clear questions on behalf of the insurer. And so she thought 
there hadnt been a qualifying misrepresentation. She thought One Sure should contact the 
insurer and ask for the cancellation to be removed and provide D with a letter stating that the 
cancellation had been made in error. She also thought One Sure should pay D £200 
compensation for its inconvenience,.
Mr T replied that he thought £5,000 compensation was due. One Sure replied that Mr T had 
a duty to make a fair presentation of risks to the insurer. It said it couldnt cover every 
eventuality in its questions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation for commercial motor insurance policies is The Insurance Act 2015. 
Under the Act, policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer when taking out a policy by volunteering information. This means they have to 
disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer 
in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
There are some exceptions. For example  unless the insurer asks about it, the policyholder 
doesnt have to disclose something if it reduces the risk or if the insurer already knows (or 
should reasonably know) about it.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any information available to them and consider if theres 
anything they ought to disclose.
So, in Ds case, I need to consider whether Mr T gave a fair presentation to the insurer of 
everything he knew  or ought to have known  about the risks it wanted to insure. We 
usually think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to ask a clear question to find out what it 
wants to know.
If we decide the policyholder didnt give a fair presentation, we need to decide what would 
have happened if they had given fair disclosure. If the insurer would have offered the policy 
on the same terms anyway theres no remedy available and it wont be whats described in 
The Act as a qualifying breach.
If the insurer would have done something different, it will be a qualifying breach. And The 
Insurance Act sets out that when a commercial customer fails to provide fair presentation, 
this is what should happen:
If it was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy and refuse all claims and it 
doesnt have to return the premiums
if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate or reckless and the insurer wouldnt have 
provided the insurance, it may avoid the contract and refuse any claims, but it must 
return the premiums; (unless the non-disclosure was deliberate or reckless)
if the insurer would still have provided the insurance but on different terms (other than 
the premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those terms; and
if the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it may take a proportionate 
approach to any claims
So Ive firstly considered whether Mr T was asked clear questions by One Sure that were 
relevant to what the insurer needed to know. The pertinent questions asked of Mr T when he 
took out the policy were in relation to previous claims and deliveries made outside the UK. 
One Sure asked Mr T if he, or the other drivers, had "any claims or losses regardless of 
blame in the last 5 years". Mr T disclosed two of his own claims. But he didnt disclose those 
made under a previous business name where he was a director and had 20 drivers. One 
Sure asked Mr T whether he wanted to keep a radius limit of 600 for the policy. But it didnt 
ask hm about deliveries outside the UK. The policy was then sold to D. 
The insurer made checks and noted that D offered deliveries outside the UK. It then asked 
for further claims and other information. Mr T said D didnt deliver outside the UK, but it did 
subcontract this. He said he wasnt asked about claims made by his previous company. The 
insurer said the risks were unacceptable to it and it cancelled the policy. A cancellation 
marker remains against D. 
From emails Ive seen, the insurer thought One Sure was aware the policy was being taken 
out by a company. And so the insurer thought Mr T should have been asked the question 
has there been any claims at all whether personal or under a business name. And so the 
insurer thought One Sure was at fault for not clearly stating the requirement for all claims to 
be disclosed. And One Sure didnt ask Mr T about deliveries outside UK at all. One Sure said it couldnt ask questions to cover all eventualities and it followed a script. But 
as the insurer required all claims to be disclosed and for deliveries to be made within UK, 
then I think One Sures questions should have covered these requirements before it sold the 
policy. So I think One Sure didnt ask clear questions on the insurers behalf. 
One Sure also said Mr T had a duty of fair presentation under the Insurance Act 2015. But, 
from what Ive heard, Mr T answered the questions he was asked honestly. One Sure didnt 
ask him about claims made under his previous business, just his personal ones. And if a 
question had been asked about deliveries outside UK, then Mr T could have explained that 
they were sub-contracted. 
And, from what Ive seen, I think the result would have been that the policy wouldnt have 
been offered to D in the first place. And so it wouldnt have been cancelled leaving a record 
that must be disclosed to future insurers.  
So, as One Sure didnt ask enough questions about the risks relevant to the insurer, Im 
satisfied that there wasnt a qualifying breach under The Insurance Act 2015. And I think its 
unfair for a cancellation to be recorded. 
The insurer is no longer in business, so One Sure cant now ask it to remove records of the 
cancellation. But it can still provide D with a letter stating that the cancellation was made in 
error. D can present this to its subsequent insurers and ask for the policies to be re-rated 
without the cancellation. 
Mr T wanted substantial compensation for the impact of the cancellation. I can understand 
that this has been an upsetting and time-consuming business for the people involved. But as 
this complaint has been brought by a limited company, I cant consider compensation for 
distress, just for the inconvenience caused.  
Our investigator asked Mr T for evidence of the losses the cancellation caused D. Mr T 
provided a summary of the increases in his premiums for Ds two vans. I think this is for D to 
take up with its subsequent insurers using the letter provided by One Sure mentioned above. 
I havent seen further evidence of financial losses caused by the cancellation. 
The investigator recommended that One Sure should pay D £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused D. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require One Sure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Provide D with a letter stating that the cancellation of the policy wasnt Ds fault. 
2. Pay D £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Ds complaint. I require One 
Sure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman