DRN-4000940
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In February 2022 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo.
Mr C experienced issues with the car leaking oil. He reported this to the dealership in 
February 2022 and completed a form in April 2022. The dealership advised Mr C to have the 
car inspected.
In April 2022 Mr C had the car inspected. This confirmed an oil leak.
On 13 April 2022 Mr C reported the issue to MotoNovo. The complaint was initially closed on 
9 May 2022 with MotoNovo saying that it wasnt upholding the complaint because there was 
no evidence of a fault.
In June 2022 the car broke down. Mr C complained to MotoNovo again, who arranged an 
independent inspection of the car.
The independent inspection was carried out in August 2022. It found staining consistent with 
an oil leak and damage to the camshaft consistent with oil starvation. The report concluded 
that the engine had seized most likely due to oil starvation but that the engine would have to 
be dismantled to establish the cause of the fault and the degree of damage. The report 
stated that it was unable to comment on whether the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Based on the contents of the report, MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr Cs request to reject. It said 
it had contacted the supplying dealer who had agreed to repair the car at no cost to Mr C.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants to reject the 
car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that Mr C should be able to reject the car. 
She said that following Mr C reporting the oil leak to the dealer within the first 30 days, and 
on the basis of the inspection report which identified an oil leak, she was satisfied that Mr C 
had provided clear evidence of an oil leak to MotoNovo. The investigator said that MotoNovo 
had been given the opportunity to repair the car when this evidence was presented to them.
MotoNovo didnt agree that rejection was the right outcome, It said:
-it didnt agree that Mr C had the right to reject the car because there was no evidence that 
he reported the fault in the first 30 days or asked to reject the car within that time
-Mr C contacted MotoNovo on 6 May 2022 to advise that hed taken the car to a garage and 
no leaks could be found. He advised that he had another appointment for 18 May 2022 to re-
check for leaks. MotoNovo said that Mr C didnt contact them again until after the car had 
broken down. Motonovo didnt agree that the appointment at the garage in May 2022 was its 
opportunity to repair the car.
-MotoNovo said that Mr C had been inconsistent with his recollection of events when he 
reported the fault. It said it held an email from Mr C dated 4 August 2022 in which he stated 
that he first saw the leak on 7 March 2022. MotoNovo said this was inconsistent with Mr C 
telling this service that he reported the oil leak to the dealer in February 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition and other things such as fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
MotoNovo has accepted that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, by 
acknowledging in the final response letter that the dealer was responsible for repairs at no 
cost to Mr C. So, I wont comment further on the quality of the car.
The issue between Mr C and MotoNovo is whether MotoNovos suggested resolution of 
repair is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C has said that he first contacted the dealership to report the oil leak in February 2022, 
within the first 30 days of inception of the agreement. Hes provided telephone records 
showing that he made a call to the dealer on 23 February 2022. 
MotoNovo has said that theres no evidence to show that Mr Cs call to the dealer was about 
the oil leak. It relies on an email it received from Mr C in which he stated that the first time he 
saw the oil leak was on 7 March 2022.
I cant be certain of exactly when Mr C first reported the oil leak. Nor can I be certain of 
whether Mr C requested to reject the car within the first 30 days. However, I am persuaded, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr C had provided enough evidence to show that 
there was an oil leak when he first complained to MotoNovo. So, I dont think MotoNovo 
shouldve closed the complaint on 9 May 2022. This is because Mr C had obtained and 
provided an inspection report from Hillcroft garage which stated that there was an oil leak. 
So, whilst I note the comment made by MotoNovo about Mr Cs appointment at Halfords on 
6 May 2022, I dont think this makes any difference, because Mr C had already provided 
evidence to show that the car was leaking oil. Because of this, I think its fair to say that 
MotoNovo had the opportunity at this point to arrange for the leak to be repaired.
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. Ive 
already explained why I think MotoNovo has already had this opportunity.
But if Im wrong about that, I still dont think that repair is a fair and reasonable remedy here. 
The engineering evidence suggests that the engine has seized due to oil starvation. Its 
likely, therefore, that the cost of repairs will be significant. Given the age and mileage of the 
car, I think its likely that the cost of repairs will be disproportionate to the value of the car.Ive also taken into account the length of time which has passed since Mr C first reported the 
oil leak. I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances to expect Mr C to wait any longer 
whilst repairs are complete. I think the fairest resolution here is for Mr C to be allowed to 
reject the car.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think Mr C should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr C hasnt been able to use the car since 14 July 2022 because of the issues with the 
engine. I dont think its fair for Mr C to pay for a car hes ben unable to use. So, all payments 
made since this date should be refunded. Prior to 14 July 2022 Mr C was able to use the car 
so I wont be asking MotoNovo to refund these payments.
Mr C has provided evidence to show that he paid for the inspection which took place in April 
2022. I think its fair to ask MotoNovo to refund this sum.
Its clear that Mr C has been caused significant distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to arrange 
inspections and find alternative modes of transport. I think its fair to ask MotoNovo to 
compensate Mr C for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr C to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £1000
Refund the inspection fee of £39
Refund all rental payments made by Mr C since 14 July 2022 to the date of settlement
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Cs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman