DRN-3012482
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about the administration of the surrender of their mortgage 
endowment policy. They are unhappy about the time it took for the surrender to happen as 
the value dropped significantly over that time. This resulted in them having to borrow money 
from family members to pay off the mortgage at the end of its term. 
ReAssure Limited is now responsible for the actions complained about and so I will refer to it 
throughout, even where the actions were taken by the previous product provider.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs Ws lender had written to ReAssure to confirm it had an 
interest in the policy. It said that the maturity proceeds should be paid to it and provided 
payment details. Before this happened, Mr and Mrs W were sent a maturity pack by 
ReAssure, which told them what they needed to do to receive the maturity value of the policy 
at the end of March 2020. 
ReAssure responded to this letter on 21 February 2020. It said that its records showed that 
the lenders interest in the policy had ended in 2002, but it didnt have documentation to 
support this. As such, it noted the lenders interest in the policy, but asked the lender to 
check whether the correspondence ReAssure had received in 2002 relinquishing interest 
had been sent in error. It also asked the lender to confirm that it did want to claim the policy 
proceeds. 
A week later the lender wrote to ReAssure again and confirmed it did have an interest in the 
policy and wanted to claim the maturity proceeds. It enclosed the original policy documents 
to allow the maturity proceeds to be paid, but no proof of its interest in the policy. In 
response to the query about the lenders interest having ended, it explained that it had taken 
over the lender that had originally had the charge over the policy.
Mr W contacted both ReAssure and the lender on 9 March 2020 to discuss the situation and 
potential surrender. They were concerned about uncertainty with global markets reducing 
the maturity value. ReAssure explained to Mr W that as it had a note of the policy being 
assigned to the lender, so the lender would have to agree to the surrender. Mr W then spoke 
to the lender. He was told it agreed to the surrender and said it would contact ReAssure 
directly to request the surrender.
On 12 March 2020 the lender wrote to ReAssure requesting the policy be surrendered and 
giving details of where the payment should be made. This letter was date stamped by 
ReAssure as having been received on 16 March 2020.
On 17 March 2020 Mrs W called ReAssure and it was confirmed that it had received the 
letter from the lender requesting the surrender of the policy. She has told us that she was 
told by ReAssure that the policy couldnt be surrendered because the lender hadnt provided 
ReAssure with the original deed of assignment (DoA).  
Mrs W then called the lender and it told her that the necessary documentation had been 
supplied some time ago. However, it could send ReAssure a letter of no further interest that 
would negate the need for the DoA. It did this the same day and ReAssures records show it 
as having been received on 27 March 2020. 
Mrs W spoke to ReAssure again on 17 March 2020 and it explained that it could process the 
surrender, and pay the money to the lender at Mr and Mrs Ws request, if they consented to 
identification checks being done. Mr and Mrs W agreed to the checks and the policy was 
surrendered on 18 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs W complained to both the lender and ReAssure about the amount of time it took 
for the policy to be surrendered and the resultant drop in the surrender value.
ReAssure responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said it had made 
the lender aware that the DoA was needed for the lender to be able to surrender the policy. 
It said as the DoA wasnt sent with the surrender request, the delay in the policy being 
surrendered was down to the lender. 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with ReAssures response. They questioned why the policy 
could be surrendered without the DoA on 18 March 2020, but couldnt have been without it 
on 9 March 2020. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt find that ReAssure had done 
anything wrong when processing the policy surrender. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said they didnt think hed 
taken into account the fact that ReAssure could have allowed them to surrender the policy 
when they initially contacted it on 9 March 2020, well over a week before it happened. They 
repeated that they didnt understand why they were suddenly allowed to surrender the 
policy, when they hadnt been able to before.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for decision. I 
considered the evidence and issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2021. 
The outcome of this complaint revolves around events that happened many years ago. It is 
clear that when Mr and Mrs W took out their mortgage the endowment policy was assigned 
to the original mortgage lender and that ReAssure was told this was the case. This meant 
that the lender had a legal interest in the policy.
When the policy was assigned to the lender, Mr and Mrs W would have signed a DoA. The 
original of this document would have been retained by the lender with the mortgage deed 
and the policy documents. A copy would have been sent to ReAssure for its records. 
ReAssure would have noted the assignment, which meant that it wouldnt have allowed 
Mr and Mrs W to make any changes to the policy without the lenders permission. It also 
meant that the lender would have been kept up to date with what was happening with the 
policy (such as being notified if premiums had stopped being paid) and the maturity value 
would be paid to the lender. However, if the lender later released its interest in the policy, it 
would no longer have an interest in the policy and Mr and Mrs W would have been able to do 
what they wanted with the policy and its proceeds.
Based on the correspondence the lender had with ReAssure in February 2020, it would 
appear the lenders records showed the policy as still being assigned to it. It also still had the 
original policy documents, which would support its position that the policy was assigned. 
However, ReAssures records showed that this was not the case and hadnt been since 
2002.At this point I would explain that the lender that held Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage in 2020 was 
not the same one with which the mortgage had originally been arranged and to which the 
policy was originally assigned. The mortgage was transferred to the current lender in 2009. If 
the policy had been assigned to the first lender at that point, the assignment would have 
been transferred alongside the mortgage.
However, generally most lenders started reconsidering the assignment of policies in the late 
1990s and into the early 2000s. This resulted in most lenders stopping assigning policies to 
new mortgages. Those that were already assigned with those lenders were usually 
reassigned, the provider would have been told the lender had no further interest in the policy 
and the policy documents should have been sent back to the policyholder. 
ReAssures records showed the original lender had released its interest in the endowment 
policy in 2002. However, it hadnt retained a copy of the notification. So when the lender 
contacted it in 2020, it noted the potential interest and asked questions. That was entirely 
reasonable. It would appear ReAssure was expecting the lender to respond and either say it 
didnt have an interest in the policy or provide proof of the assignment in the form of (at 
least) a copy of the deed of assignment. That isnt what the lender did, but ReAssure didnt 
go back to the lender for further evidence when it was apparent the lender hadnt provided 
what ReAssure thought was needed.
That said, it was only a week later that Mr and Mr W started discussing the surrender of the 
policy with ReAssure. ReAssure correctly told them they needed to speak to their lender and 
that resulted in the lender requesting the policy be surrendered. As that request wasnt 
received by ReAssure until 16 March 2020, it couldnt do anything further until that point. 
The policy was surrendered two days later without the DoA being provided. It would appear 
at this point ReAssure took a pragmatic decision in order to ensure Mr and Mrs W werent 
disadvantaged. It was still not clear whether the policy was assigned to the lender at this 
point, and so where ReAssure was legally required to direct the surrender proceeds. 
However, it knew that both the lender and Mrs and Mrs W wanted the policy surrendered 
and wanted the money paid to the lender. So whether the policy was assigned or not, if 
ReAssure processed the surrender and paid the money to the lender, none of the interested 
parties could be disadvantaged by the payment being made. I think it was entirely 
reasonable for ReAssure to have taken this pragmatic action. 
Mr and Mrs W have asked why ReAssure could surrender the policy on 18 March without 
the DoA, but didnt do it on 9 March when they first started making enquiries. This would be 
because, if the policy was still assigned, ReAssure couldnt legally surrender the policy on 
just Mr and Mrs Ws say-so. It had to have permission from the lender and that wasnt 
received until 16 March. However, as I have said, technically, ReAssure shouldnt have 
processed the surrender until the matter of the assignment was resolved one way or the 
other. I consider the fact it chose to take a pragmatic approach to help its policyholders, is to 
its credit.
ReAssure didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied it received it. 
Mr and Mrs W confirmed receipt of the provisional decision. They said they didnt know 
about the DoA when they first looked into surrendering the policy and didnt think they should 
have needed to as laypeople. They said they thought ReAssure should have sorted all of 
this out before maturity and not left it until the last minute. Mr and Mrs W reiterated their 
question about why ReAssure had allowed the surrender without the DoA when it did, but 
wouldnt allow it earlier. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr and Mrs W told our investigator that they had a letter from ReAssure telling 
them the maturity proceeds would be paid to them. I accept this was the case, but that was 
before the lender became involved in matters and told ReAssure the policy was assigned to 
it. Once it did, until ReAssure could determine who legally it could pay the money to, or all 
parties agreed to the lender having the money (as eventually happened), ReAssure couldnt 
pay the money out to either party. At the time the letter was sent to Mr and Mrs W it wasnt 
wrong, based on what ReAssure knew at the time, but circumstances changed.
Mr and Mrs W have said that they didnt know about the issue relating to the DoA and dont 
feel they should have had to, given they are laypeople. I can see the point they are making, 
however, whether they understood the issues regarding the DoA, this issue did exist and it 
had to be dealt with. I would also comment that Mr and Mrs W were involved in the policy 
being assigned when the mortgage was set up, as they had to sign the DoA to give their 
permission. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think ReAssure did anything wrong when it 
was dealing with the surrender of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. Nothing that has been said since 
changes that conclusion. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman