DRN-2396134
The complaint
This complaint is about a property that Mr L and Mrs L used to own, subject to a mortgage 
with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB). The property was surrendered voluntarily in 2019 
and sold in possession in 2020, leaving a shortfall of around £102,000. Mr L has complained 
that he should not be liable to pay so much, as the house should have been taken into 
possession much earlier. Mrs L has joined the complaint, but all of our dealings on it have 
been with Mr L. 
What happened
In a recent jurisdiction decision, I explained why my remit to consider this complaint was 
limited to the following:
How long it took TMB to dispose of the mortgaged property after it was surrendered 
voluntarily in September 2019; and
Whether the property was sold in possession for less than its true market value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
TMBs duty was to sell the property for the best price achievable within a reasonable period 
of time (my italics). It may be a rather subjective test but the approach we take, in essence, 
is that a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a 
sale (thus potentially adding further to the borrowers interest costs) to achieve an 
unrealistically high price.
Its about finding a balance between the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain two independent valuations, and then to market the property with a view to 
achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations. In the case of Mr L and Mrs Ls 
property, Im satisfied thats what TMB did.
Both valuations TMB received were for £195,000, and the recommended initial asking price 
was also £195,000, with a view to achieving a sale with 90 days. Unfortunately, the property 
attracted little interest, and TMB only received one offer, for £175,000. That offer was 
accepted, and the sale was completed in late January 2020, around 120 days after 
possession.
I think that decision was reasonable. Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is 
willing to pay for it at any given time. In this case, that was £175,000, and given the 
timeframe, I consider the sale was achieved at the best price achievable, bearing in mind 
that the mortgage continued to accrue interest until the sale was completed.
I fully appreciate that losing the property that had once been their home was a distressing 
experience for Mr L and Mrs L, and I understand their strength of feeling about what has 
happened. But in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded TMB has treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
I cant say one way or another whether there were possible shortcomings or factual 
inaccuracies in the actual valuations TMB obtained at the time. These were the work of 
surveying firms and/or estate agents, not TMB itself. 
My remit doesnt extend to questioning the content of the reports. These were the 
professional opinions of the parties TMB was required to consult. It was entitled to rely on 
those opinions when deciding how much to try and sell the property for. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall conclusion is that the shortfall TMB is seeking is 
a valid debt for which it can fairly hold Mr L and Mrs L liable, and can fairly seek repayment 
proposals from them, either collectively or separately.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman