DRN-2925012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) recorded their claim under their 
contents insurance for laptop damage as two separate claims. To resolve the dispute, theyd 
like UKI to remove any record of a second claim, refund the excess, and pay compensation 
for the time spent on this matter.
The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr O throughout my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Briefly, Mr O claimed under his contents insurance after spilling a drink over his laptop. UKI 
completed two repairs before cash settling the claim, but Mr O is unhappy that it recorded 
the second repair as a separate claim. To resolve his complaint, Mr O would like UKI to: 
remove the second claim from his record;
refund to him the second excess payment, and
pay compensation which covers his hourly rate, consumables and fuel.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr O will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
My role here is to decide whether UKI handled Mr Os claim(s) fairly and in line with the 
policy terms.
First claim
Mr O doesnt think UKI shouldve tried to repair the laptop in the first instance because his 
independent expert said it wouldnt be a lasting repair. The policy confirms how UKI will 
settle claims, as follows: 
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
As the policy provides for it, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to complete a repair. 
Indeed, Mr O confirmed that the laptop worked when it was returned to him. So, I cant say 
that UKI did anything wrong in respect of the first claim.
Second claim
Around four months later, Mr O reported to UKI that his laptop was faulty. He said the 
problems started again within a week of getting his laptop back, so he thinks the first repair 
was ineffective as predicted by his independent expert. For that reason, Mr O thinks the 
repair was an extension of the first claim, so he doesnt think UKI shouldve recorded it as a 
second claim.
The overall complaint stems from this issue but I think it was fair that UKI treated the fault as 
a second claim for the following reasons:
Mr O confirmed the laptop worked after the first repair.
UKI didnt receive any reports or evidence of further faults until four months later.
As Mr O didnt expect the repair to last, UKI could reasonably have expected that 
hed report any further faults as soon as they happened.
Regardless of these points, on inspection, UKI identified a further liquid spill 
evidenced by the liquid markers  so, new damage.
I understand that Mr O said there hadnt been another spill while the laptop was in his 
possession. But the manufacturer replaced the liquid markers after the first spill, so with the 
new markers showing evidence of liquid damage, I can see why UKI recorded it as a second 
claim. In the circumstances, and on balance of the evidence available, I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to record the damage as a second claim. I see no reason to ask UKI to 
refund the claim excess or remove the record of the second claim.
Settling the claim
Mr Os independent expert reported that the laptop was beyond repair. UKI tried to repair the 
laptop again but eventually cash settled so Mr O could replace it. As Ive said, the policy 
allows UKI to repair so I dont think it was wrong to try. However, when the laptop developed 
a fault again I think it was reasonable to look at replacement as suggested in the expert 
report. UKI initially offered vouchers so Mr O could buy a replacement laptop, but after some 
problems using the vouchers, UKI settled in cash. Im satisfied that UKI fairly settled the 
actual claim here, but its clear there were delays reaching this point which couldve been 
avoided. Ill address that now.
Compensation
Mr O asked for compensation to cover his hourly rate, fuel, consumables, his inconvenience, 
poor service and delays. Having looked at the evidence, including Mr Os timeline of events 
and the way UKI handled the claim, I agree that matters couldve been dealt with better. For 
example, 
UKI didnt communicate with Mr O when hed been in touch to follow up progress of 
his claim;
there were avoidable delays before UKI decided to replace the laptop, and
Mr O had a wasted trip to the retailer because the voucher UKI provided to settle the 
claim didnt work.
I can understand that these issues wouldve caused Mr O inconvenience and 
embarrassment, so I think compensation was warranted. UKI hasnt disputed that it couldve 
handled the claim better and it provided several compensation payments to Mr O. Overall, 
the compensation totalled £450 for the service shortfalls. UKI also reimbursed the cost of Mr 
Os independent expert report at £58.80 and, after cancelling the retail voucher, it paid the 
full replacement cost of the laptop without applying its retailer discount. That meant Mr O received around £700 more for his laptop replacement than he shouldve done under the 
terms of his policy, in addition to the compensation. So, while Ive agreed with Mr O that UKI 
couldve handled his claim better, Im satisfied that it has already paid fair compensation for 
the shortfalls and inconvenience it caused Mr O, along with the cash settlement for a new 
laptop which was above the policy requirements. 
Mr O asked for further compensation at his hourly rate and for other consumables. Theres a 
lot of documentation in support of the complaint as a whole, but I havent seen anything 
which persuades me that UKI should pay more compensation than it already has. I havent 
considered Mr Os experience in terms of the value he places on his own time because, with 
claims of this nature, there will always be some inconvenience. Instead, I look at the 
avoidable inconvenience and any upset which can reasonably be attributed to the way UKI 
handled the claim. As Ive said, Im satisfied that UKI acknowledged its shortfalls and paid a 
fair sum in recognition of that. I wont be asking UKI to pay any more.
Ive thought about how UKI shouldve handled the second claim to decide whether there was 
any further detriment which it needs to address. Mr O wouldve paid the policy excess, and 
after a prompt attempt to repair the laptop, UKI likely wouldve offered retail vouchers, less 
its supplier discount. As it is, UKI cash settled for the full value of the laptop and paid 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. I think thats a fair outcome and adequately 
compensates Mr O.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI reasonably treated the second repair as a separate claim in 
line with the policy, so theres no reason to require it to remove the record of the claim or 
refund the excess. While there were clear shortfalls in the way it handled the second claim, 
and UKI didnt dispute that, Im satisfied it paid fair compensation and cash settled the claim 
above and beyond policy requirements. I wont be asking UKI to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman