DRN-3209910
The complaint
Mr M complains Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) failed to pass on medical 
declarations to his insurer, leading to his subsequent income protection claim being 
declined.  
What happened
Mr M took out an income protection policy on advice from MAB. This took place in 2019, 
when Mr M was purchasing a house. 
Mr Ms income protection policy is held with an insurer I will refer to as A. And it was set to 
pay out a defined monthly benefit to cover Mr Ms mortgage and bills payments, in the event 
that he was unable to work due to an accident or illness. 
In 2020 Mr M had to undergo surgery and was unable to work. He made a claim against his 
income protection policy with A. However A declined the claim, and said Mr Ms bilateral 
knee pain had been pre-existing, and hadnt been declared when the policy was taken out.
Mr M complained to MAB. It said it had no record of any pre-existing medical conditions 
having been declared to its adviser by Mr M. And it said A sent Mr M details of the policy, 
including the medical questions and answers, for him to check and confirm if anything was 
incorrect. 
Unhappy with MABs response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. And he made a 
subject access request to MAB for all of the information it held about his application. MAB 
confirmed there was no record of a medical declaration form signed by Mr M. And it said any 
paper-based notes from the meeting with its adviser had been destroyed. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint.  They 
said they thought Mr M had the opportunity to tell A his pre-existing medical conditions were 
missing when he was sent details of his policy. And they said had A been aware of Mr Ms 
knee pain, they thought it was most likely it would have excluded this from cover. So the 
claim in 2020 still wouldnt have been paid. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he said he had declared his 
medical conditions to MAB. And he said MAB had destroyed documents from the time of the 
sale, so he should be compensated for this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as MAB provided advice, it had a 
responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr M when it sold it to him. This means it 
had a duty to consider Mr Ms individuals needs and circumstances, and based on this 
information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable for him. MAB also 
needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way.
Firstly, I should clarify, if I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this 
doesnt mean I havent considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, 
but instead Im concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended 
by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role within it.
Disclosure of pre-existing medical conditions
At the heart of this complaint is a dispute between the parties around what information was 
disclosed in respect of Mr Ms pre-existing medical conditions. Mr M had a face to face 
conversation with MABs adviser, so theres no full written record of all that was discussed. 
Instead, Ive carefully considered Mr Ms testimony about his recollection of what happened 
when he took out the policy, alongside the information and documents provided by MAB.
Mr M said he recalls telling the MAB adviser about having ongoing physiotherapy treatment 
for knee pain, as well as two other medical conditions. And he said he was aware that he 
was likely to require knee surgery in the future. His wife has said she recalls the same 
declarations being made. And Mr M said he signed a form to confirm his declaration of 
medical information. 
MABs adviser has said his recollection is that Mr M didnt declare any medical conditions in 
relation to the policy. And MAB said there was no medical declaration form which Mr M was 
required to sign. However it said there were other forms relating to the policy which Mr M 
was asked to sign at the time, which I have seen copies of  a fee agreement and an advice 
disclaimer. 
Based on the evidence available, Ive not been sufficiently persuaded that Mr M declared his 
knee pain to MAB. And Ill go on to explain why. 
Mr Ms knee pain was active and ongoing, and he has said he was already aware of a 
potential need for surgery. So had Mr M declared this, I would expect MAB would most likely 
have advised him this was something an insurer may not agree to cover under an income 
protection policy, as the risk was already known, and an exclusion would probably be 
applied. 
A sent Mr M details of his policy after it was taken out, including the medical questions and 
answers, which showed no medical conditions had been declared. A asked Mr M to check 
this information and to advise if anything was incorrect. And it sent Mr A an email about this 
in addition to letters through the post. So it was at this point that there was an opportunity for 
Mr M to identify that his medical conditions were not noted against his policy. 
Mr M confirmed he received these documents from A, but has explained circumstances he 
had going on at the time, which he said meant he didnt review the documents, and relied on 
MAB to have passed on the information correctly. Whilst I appreciate the circumstances Mr 
M was dealing with were likely to have been demanding and stressful, it was still his 
responsibility to check the details of the cover he had taken out, and to tell A if something 
was incorrect. And had he declared the ongoing knee pain and his awareness of a need for 
future surgery to MAB, I think its reasonable to expect he would have needed to review and 
check the documentation to find out whether this condition had been accepted by the 
insurer, or if an exclusion had been applied. 
Ive thought about what would have happened if Mr M had checked the details of his pre-
existing conditions, when he received details of his policy in 2019. If hed contacted A or 
MAB to advise his knee pain and other conditions were missing, I think its most likely he 
would have had the option for this policy to be amended to include the pre-existing conditions. And based on what A said after it declined the claim, I think it would most likely 
have added an exclusion to the policy, for any claims related to Mr Ms knees.  And had this 
happened, Mr M would still have been unable to claim for his period of illness in 2020, as 
this was related to his pre-existing knee pain. 
Another option, had Mr M identified the discrepancy with his pre-existing conditions and 
raised this, is that his policy with A could have been cancelled, and he could have looked for 
an alternative policy to provide cover for his pre-existing conditions. Mr M has explained hes 
since taken out a different policy which provides cover for his knees after a trouble-free two 
year period. So I think its fair to assume the same thing may have happened in 2019, if Mr 
M had looked elsewhere for a policy. And in that case, he would still have been unable to 
claim for his period of illness in 2020 after his surgery, as this related to his pre-existing knee 
pain, and would still have been within two years of taking out a policy. 
Whilst Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ms financial difficulties, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint. Ive not been persuaded he declared his knee condition to MAB, and that it failed 
to pass this information on to A.  And as Ive explained, I think a claim in 2020 related to Mr 
Ms pre-existing and ongoing knee pain, most likely wouldnt have been payable under any 
income protection policy Mr M could have taken out at the time, based on the evidence Ive 
seen. 
Destroyed documentation
MAB said the notes made during the meeting between its adviser and Mr M were destroyed 
after the application was completed online. Mr M has said he thinks MAB has breached data 
retention rules, by destroying documentation related to the sale of his policy and has asked 
to be compensated for this. 
Its not my role to decide whether or not MAB has complied with the relevant data laws  that 
would be a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). However in the context 
of this complaint, I think MABs explanation is reasonable that it destroyed the notes once it 
had uploaded Mr Ms information online for the purpose of applying for the policy with A. And 
so I see no reason to award any compensation in respect of this.
Refund of premiums 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about having paid premiums of over £800 in relation to 
his policy with A, which didnt pay out when he claimed. Ive noted from the fact find 
documentation that Mr M was looking for cover in respect of his mortgage payments in the 
event of illness or accident, and not just in relation to his knee pain. 
The cover Mr M had in place with A offered him protection in respect of other illnesses which 
may have given rise to a claim during the period in which the cover was in place. So 
although Mr M was unable to make a claim related to his pre-existing knee pain, A was on 
risk in relation to claims Mr M may have needed to make related to other conditions. And A 
confirmed the two other pre-existing conditions Mr M had, would not have led to an exclusion 
had they been declared, so they were covered. 
Im satisfied Mr M had the benefit of the cover being in place and that this was of use to him. 
And, as Ive not been persuaded that MAB made an error in passing information to A when 
setting up Mr Ms policy, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to direct it to make any payment to 
Mr M in respect of his premiums or the declined claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman