DRN-3128272
The complaint
Mr A complains that Black Horse Limited provided him with a hire purchase agreement for a 
used car which was unaffordable.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr A entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
cash price for the car was £27,474 and a £799 deposit was made leaving £26,675 to pay. 
The hire purchase charges amounted to £11,080.92 making a total amount payable of 
£38,554.92. Under the agreement there were to be 48 monthly payments of £543.29 and 
in the 49th month Mr A could choose to either pay a balloon payment of £11,678 and keep 
the car, return the car or seek to use it in part exchange for another.
Mr A says that at the time he entered into this agreement he was unemployed and a 
student but had been persuaded it was affordable by the salesperson. Black Horse says 
that Mr A said that he was working full time with an income of £29,000 per year and that 
following checks it was satisfied the credit agreement was affordable.
In November 2017 the car was seized by the police following a third party being found 
driving the car when uninsured to do so. The car was impounded and recovered by Black 
Horse who terminated the agreement on the grounds that the terms and conditions had 
been breached as the car hadnt been in Mr As possession.
The car was subsequently sold at auction and a balance of £15,37885 remained 
outstanding on the account. Black Horse wrote off the balance in July 2018 and recorded 
a default on Mr As credit file.
In November 2019 Mr A complained to Black Horse that the hire purchase agreement had 
been irresponsibly sold to him due to the level of borrowing involved. He said it had been 
unaffordable. Black Horse didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that based on the 
information provided, and the checks that had been undertaken, Mr A had a net 
disposable income of £1,888 pm and that the loan was considered to have been 
affordable to him at the point of application. Black Horse also said that Mr A had signed 
the agreement to confirm all the details that had been recorded were correct and that he 
was happy to be bound by its terms and conditions.
Mr A disagreed with the view of Black Horse and complained to this service. He said that 
he hadnt had a job at the time hed entered into the agreement and he had found Black 
Horse to be unhelpful. He asked for all monies he had paid under the agreement to be 
reimbursed with interest and any adverse information recorded on his credit file to be 
removed.
Our investigator recommended that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think Black Horse had done enough checks about Mr As income and, looking at the 
financial information Mr A had provided in the form of bank statements, there wasnt any 
regular income in the form of wages being received by Mr A. She said that without a 
regular income she didnt think the loan was affordable by Mr A.
Our investigator said as Black Horse shouldnt have approved the lending to Mr A it 
should now refund him the deposit hed paid with interest and remove any adverse 
information from his credit file. She said that she wouldnt ask Black Horse to refund any 
of the payments Mr A had made for the car as he had been able to use it in the seven 
months hed had the car in his possession adding an additional 12,000 miles to the 
odometer.
Black Horse disagreed with the view reached by our investigator. It said it had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to verify the information provided by Mr A when 
applying for the loan. And these checks had included a check on the actual current 
account turnover which had found the income stated by Mr A appeared to match the 
turnover seen in his account. Black Horse said Mr A had been able to make the payments 
as required and had even asked for the car to be returned after it had been taken back by 
Black Horse following seizure by the police.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I need to take 
into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There are 
two overarching questions I need to think about in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr A would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown that Mr A wouldve been able to sustainable repay the 
agreement
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Black Horse said that the necessary checks were carried out to ensure this loan was 
affordable for Mr A by looking at his income and credit history. Black Horse didnt 
verify Mr As employment or his salary. However, Mr As declared committed 
outgoings of around £29pm appeared to have been supported by his credit file 
which showed he had four active accounts that were all up to date and the total 
monthly payments were around £14. Mr A had also declared he lived at home with 
his parents and paid no rent or utilities. Black Horse said that Mr A had signed the 
agreement to confirm all the information he had provided regarding his financial 
circumstances was true.
Id looked at the FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which contains rules for 
responsible lending by consumer credit companies and assists in assessing a consumers 
ability to repay credit. This states that checks carried out by lenders should be conducted to 
ensure any lending is affordable and sustainable for the borrower and so should be borrower 
focused and proportionate to the circumstances of the credit.That means things like the 
amount being borrowed, the length of the loan, the size of the repayments as well as credit 
history should be considered.
Here, the information taken for Mr A was that he was living with his parents and had 
been working in the same job for around 13 months earning £29,000 per year in a full- time post. Id seen that Mr A hadnt been requested to provide any payslips or 
confirmation of this employment, but checks had been made by a credit reference 
agency on his current account which Black Horse said had verified that there was 
income going into Mr As account which was consistent with the salary he had 
declared. No bank statements were asked to be produced by Mr A. So, I thought Black 
Horse had done more than simply accepting Mr As income was the amount he had 
stated but I thought, looking at the credit agreement, Black Horse should have made 
more enquiries about the source of Mr As income
This was a credit agreement for around £38,000, repaid over a four-year period with a 
final optional payment of around £11,700. There were 48 monthly payments due of 
around £550pm and, looking at the length of the agreement and the amount of the 
monthly payments, I thought it was clear this was a substantial commitment for Mr A 
to meet. And under CONC 5.3.1.(4) states if a firm takes income or expenditure into 
account in its creditworthiness assessment ...(b) It is not generally sufficient for firm to 
rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the customer
Although I appreciated Black Horse had taken some steps to verify Mr As income I 
thought, due to the amount of the credit being borrowed and the length of the 
agreement, that it would have been proportionate for Black Horse to have done more 
to establish Mr As income than rely on the credit reference agencys check on the 
turnover from his current account. I am also unclear how many months of activity were 
checked when reaching the decision that the turnover was consistent with the income 
reported by Mr A.
As I didnt think Black Horse had carried out sufficient checks on Mr As income, I 
couldnt say it had made a fair lending decision based on reasonable and 
proportionate checks.
However, if Black Horse had done further checks would it have revealed that the 
credit agreement was affordable for Mr A? Mr A said that at the time he had  taken 
out the hire purchase agreement he wasnt working as he was a student. He said his 
only income was from student finance and money provided by his family. He had 
provided a number of bank statements to show what money he had coming in and 
out of his bank account.
While I didnt expect a business to ask to see copies of a consumers bank statements 
these had provided useful information for me. They had also raised a number of 
questions. I saw that Mr A wasnt in receipt of any regular payments that would 
suggest he was in employment, but his account had large sums being paid into it 
which I thought would reasonably be considered as not the norm for a student 
account. In six and half months Mr A had had over £24,000 paid into his account. He 
said this money was made up of loans, grants, money from family, birthday gifts and 
money towards his university expenses.
Id seen money going into his account in April 2017 which was his student finance 
payment but there were no other payments from student finance in the other 
statements which went up to September 2017. I also hadnt seen any evidence Mr A 
received any grants that went towards his education. I was unclear how much Mr A 
required towards his university costs as he hadnt claimed any expenses such as rent 
for example. I thought it was reasonable to consider Mr A had been receiving money 
into his account that exceeded his actual university costs.
I accepted some of the payments would have been birthday gifts, but it appeared, 
when looking at the amounts going into Mr As account, that it was reasonable to 
assume that Mr A had an income from various sources that was equivalent to that he had declared to Black Horse at the time he had entered into to the credit agreement.
But I thought had Black Horse sought to verify Mr As income this would have shown 
he wasnt working full-time nor in receipt of a salaried income. And I thought there 
would have been concern that the information provided about Mr A being in 
employment wasnt correct. However, I also thought that although there would have 
been questions raised as to the sources of Mr As income that in reality this agreement 
appeared to have been affordable for him.
I said this because Id seen from Mr As bank statements that he had been able to 
afford the payments on the car each month until it was re-possessed for breach of 
contract. The breach was due to the car not being in Mr As possession and not for an 
inability to pay. Id seen that after the car had been seized, Mr A had asked Black 
Horse for it to be returned to him as he had been keeping up with the payments and 
said he intended to do so going forward. I thought this showed Mr A had considered 
the payments to have been sustainably affordable several months into the agreement 
and that this was supported by the copies of the bank statements he had provided.
And while I appreciated Mr A had said the salesperson had made the agreement seem 
affordable when he had taken out, when this wasnt the case, Im afraid I didnt accept 
that. Id seen that the credit agreement had been clear as to its terms and I didnt 
accept Mr A had been misled about the deposit, monthly costs or length of the 
agreement. I thought it was fair to say Mr A had understood how much he would need 
to pay each month and for how long. And on the evidence that Id seen, I thought it 
was reasonable to say that Mr A had considered the agreement was affordable when 
he had entered into it, that he had been able to make the payments during the period 
the agreement was live and had expressed a wish for the agreement to continue after 
the terms had been breached.
Looking at the affordability issue, I didnt think Mr A had suffered any financial 
detriment entering into this agreement even though Black Horse should have carried 
out further checks. The agreement hadnt been ended because Mr A had been 
struggling to make payments but because he had breached the agreements terms 
and conditions which was a very different situation. I also understood that Black Horse 
had made the decision to show that this agreement was not active, had written off the 
arrears and so there was no detrimental information on Mr As credit record for this 
agreement. Iin all these circumstances, I didnt think it would be fair to require Black 
Horse to reimburse Mr As deposit and I was therefore not intending to uphold his 
complaint.
The final question I needed to consider was whether Black Horse had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. Id seen that the car was re-possessed for a breach 
of the contract and, looking at the circumstances of that, I thought Black Horses 
response had been reasonable. It had also written off the outstanding balance on the 
account. So, I was satisfied it hadnt acted unfairly towards Mr A.
Neither Mr A nor Black Horse has asked me to look again at any parts of my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Although neither party has asked me to reconsider my provisional decision, I have carefully 
reviewed my conclusions and the reasons I reached them. I havent changed my mind. I still 
think that despite Black Horse not having carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
as to whether Mr A could sustainably afford this financial agreement, he hasnt suffered any 
financial detriment as a result as it was affordable for him. I am therefore not upholding Mr 
As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman