DRN-3134187
The complaint
Mr S complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) undervalued his car when he 
made a claim on his motor insurance policy. Hes also complained about the customer 
service he received from them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions made by our investigator for these reasons:
One Insurance were required to consider Mr Ss claim promptly and settle it fairly. Im 
satisfied they acted reasonably by eventually relying on motor trade guides to reach 
a valuation for Mr Ss car, as they are based on extensive nationwide and local 
research and they show likely sale prices for most cars, based on the month of loss. 
Im also satisfied the valuations they obtained (£3,195, £3,740 and £3,885) were  
based on the same make, model and mileage of Mr Ss car and the correct date of 
loss. 
One Insurance reached a final valuation figure of £3,606.67, as this is the average of 
the three figures detailed above. I agree with One Insurance that our service says 
this approach is reasonable in many complaints, as valuations arent an exact 
science, and taking an average of three motor trade guides can often result in a fair 
outcome. However, in this specific case, I do think it would have been reasonable for 
One Insurance to have disregarded the lowest valuation figure, before calculating 
the average. I say this as it's significantly different to the other two valuations and 
based on the overall value of the car, I do think it had a considerable impact. In 
which case, a fair valuation would have been £3,812.50 instead of the £3,606.67 
that was ultimately offered.
Based on the system notes, I can see One Insurance did offer to make an interim 
payment to Mr S in February, but they were unable to arrange this with him. While I 
appreciate Mr S strongly disagreed with the settlement amount and may have felt 
uncertain about the impact of accepting this payment, I do think he could reasonably 
have accepted it on an interim basis. In which case, he wouldn't have suffered any 
loss of use of that portion of the settlement. It's for this reason I dont think it would 
be appropriate for interest to be added to the total final settlement figure. That said, 
as I think One Insurance undervalued Mr Ss car by £205.83, I think it's fair they add 
simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date the interim payment 
was offered to the date they make payment to him.
 Ive also considered the customer service Mr S received and think an award of £250 
compensation would be fair under the circumstances. In reaching this figure, Ive 
considered the timescales involved and the impact of One Insurances actions.    
One Insurance provided Mr S with several valuations, before all three motor trade 
guides were consulted, and they also asked Mr S for addition information without 
clarifying how this information would be used. So, I think One Insurance could 
reasonably have made things much easier and clearer for Mr S. I also think they 
should have been able to fairly settle this matter much sooner. £250 compensation 
is therefore a fair reflection of the avoidable distress and inconvenience Mr S 
experienced in relation to this claim.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, I require One Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr Ss claim using a car valuation of £3,812.50 subject to a deduction of the 
excess.
Add simple interest to £205.83 of that settlement, at a rate of 8% a year from           
24 February 2021 ( the date the interim payment was offered) to the date they pay 
him.* 
Pay Mr S £250 compensation to reflect the avoidable distress and inconvenience he             
experienced because of this issue.
*If One Insurance Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much its taken off. They 
should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman