DRN-3916069
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr Fs partner is assisting him with this complaint because Mr F has difficulties with his
health.
Late in 2018, Mr F received a large payment into his account and had one debit card for the 
account. Whilst he was away on holiday in July/August 2019, Mr F noticed a cash withdrawal 
had been made from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) near to his home that he didnt 
recognise.
 
Following this, Mr F and his partner looked at the statements for his account and believed 
that about £10,000 had been spent without his permission over a number of months.
Initially Mr F and his partner both thought it was the other making these transactions. They
later didnt think this was possible with the ATM withdrawal because they werent physically
present in the area it was used.
Mr F sought numerous refunds from Lloyds who looked into the claim but didnt think the
transactions were carried out without Mr Fs permission. Lloyds systems identified that the
genuine card was used to make the withdrawals together with the correct Personal
Identification Number (PIN) and it was unlikely these were obtained by an unknown third
party.
Mr F believed his card details had been cloned and thought an earlier incident (data breach)
with another company was responsible for his losses. He complained to Lloyds who wrote to
him explaining that they wouldnt be making a refund.
Mr F then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Information from both parties
was sought and examined.
Mr F told the investigator:
that he hadnt given his cards or details about them to a third party. 
He didnt know how these details could have been obtained by someone else. 
He did believe that an earlier data breach might have been responsible for
the loss from his account. 
After considering all the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint believing 
that it was more likely than not that Mr F was responsible for the disputed transactions.
The investigator commented that:
The pattern of use wasnt typical of how a stolen card was used.
There was no explanation for how the PIN and genuine card was compromised.
It was unlikely an unknown third party could have used the card and PIN without Mr
F being aware it was being used.
The data breach was unlikely to be responsible because the genuine card was
required to make the ATM withdrawals.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of the
complaint, which has now been passed to me for a decision.
Mr F made further submissions via his rep where he said:
He continued to believe the card was cloned.
His health conditions mean he cant always understand how his account was
operating.
He could have lost his card when he was with other people after falling asleep.
I asked for some clarification concerning the disputed transactions and the card use to which
Mr F and his rep responded, in summary they said:
Mr F made payments to his partners account.
A number of additional transactions were disputed by Mr F.
Mr F initially thought the disputed transactions were made by his partner who hed 
given the card to in the past.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Fs complaint on 27 January 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr F liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Lloyds can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr F authorised the
transactions, but Lloyds cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the card details
themselves conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless Lloyds can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Fs account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Mr F, although some of the details werent available for all the disputed
transactions. Overall, Im satisfied the information supplied by Lloyds shows the genuine
card and PIN were used to make the withdrawals. Ill now need to consider the information
provided by both parties to determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr Fresponsible for the disputed transactions or not.
Mr F and his rep believe that a large number of transactions were carried out without Mr Fs
authority, including both physical use of the card to withdraw funds and online use (internet
shopping).
There is no defined list of the disputed transactions and further queries have shown that
additional payments have also been disputed. The relevance of this is that its difficult to be
certain whats been disputed in order to conclusively list those transactions Mr F believes
werent made by him.
Mr F and his rep have suggested that the card may have been cloned which accounts for its
use. Lloyds have confirmed that the genuine card was used to make these withdrawals with
the correct PIN. So, I dont think that a cloned card is the reason why these transactions
were carried out. A cloned card also doesnt explain how someone was able to acquire the
PIN to use with the card for any ATM withdrawals. Also, the pattern of withdrawals isnt how
a stolen card is typically used.
The latest information provided by Mr F and his rep show there are unrecognised
transactions on cards ending 4720 and 4723. The original claim was centred around
unrecognised transactions with card ending 4720.
Ive examined the use of both cards closely and during the trip mentioned by Mr F, both
cards were used. Card 4720 was used at a merchant in the same vicinity as the holiday prior
to its use at the ATM some days later. Card 4723 also made purchases in the same general
location around the same time (at the holiday location). So, whoever used 4720 was both in
the same location as Mr F and his rep, and at the ATM near his home some days later.
Whilst there is a possibility that an unknown third party was able to acquire the card
somehow and learn the PIN, particularly as Mr F has said he sometimes fell asleep in the
presence of other people, I dont think thats the likely answer here. For it to be an unknown
third party  they would have had to have acquired the card a number of months earlier and
learnt the PIN, then made various transactions without Mr F or his rep becoming aware.
They would then have had to have been in the same (holiday) location with Mr F and his rep
at the same time.
Mr F has confirmed that the only other person he allowed to use his card was his partner
and they initially thought each other was making these withdrawals and purchases. For Mr F
to be held responsible for these transactions, he himself doesnt necessarily have to be the
one that makes them. If he allows another person to use his card, then he would generally
be held responsible for its use.
When Ive examined all the evidence, it doesnt sound likely that an unidentified third party
could have obtained the genuine card and PIN without the knowledge of Mr F or his rep the
scale of disputed transactions is around £10,000 which I think would have stood out as it
was a large part of the available funds. Also, I think that the introduction of disputed
transactions concerning both cards makes their use by unidentified third parties even less
likely.
I understand Mr F thinks that a data breach involving another business was in some way
responsible for his losses. Whilst its possible some of his card details could have been
obtained, it doesnt account for the physical use of his cards and I think theres little
likelihood of two separate instances of card theft being responsible for the transactions.
Both the cards were in use whilst on holiday and it just doesnt seem likely they could bothhave been used by someone else whilst being used by Mr F (or someone else with his
permission) at the same time. Theres also evidence that Mr F allows his card to be used by
someone else (his partner). So, I currently think its more likely than not that Mr F or
someone with his authority was using both cards to make transactions and withdrawals.
My provisional decision
My intention here is not to uphold this complaint based on the information Ive examined.
Lloyds had nothing further to add and Mr Fs rep sent in further comments for me to 
consider, in summary she said:
Mr F didnt believe he had two cards operating on the account.
He couldnt explain how two cards were being used whilst on holiday.
Mr F believed that three withdrawals of £250 each had taken place on one day which 
hasnt been explained.
Following the submission made by Mr Fs rep, I asked Lloyds to re-examine the data they 
supplied to our service concerning the debit card numbers recorded for the disputed 
transactions. Lloyds were able to confirm that an error occurred in their data when they 
transferred some information into a different format. What this meant was that a different 
card number was introduced into the data (earlier referred to as ending 4720).
Lloyds have provided the original system information concerning the account transactions 
that shows only one card (ending 4723) was issued to Mr F at the time and not two cards. 
Whilst the information didnt alter my opinion overall, it did change my assessment of the 
complaint because there was now only one card being used to make these transactions, 
rather than two.
I asked Mr F to comment on this information and he (and his rep) still believe Mr F wasnt 
responsible for making these transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the error in the original data supplied by Lloyds, Ive re-examined the complaint. I 
also examined the statements in response to Mr Fs assertion that three withdrawals of £250 
were completed in one single day (that supported his case that it wasnt him that carried 
them out and his genuine card shouldnt allow that). 
Ive seen the records concerning Mr Fs account related to his debit card which shows that 
the maximum he could withdraw on this card (on a daily basis) was £500. Having looked 
through the statements, the maximum withdrawn on any one day was £500, not £750.
The conclusions I reached in my provisional decision that it was unlikely to be an 
unauthorised third party who was responsible because they would have repeatedly needed 
the genuine card from Mr F to then return it to him without him knowing remains my opinion 
here, even though only one card was used.
Mr F first noticed an unusual transaction whilst he was on holiday. The transaction data for 
the ATM withdrawal shows it was made in the middle of a series of other payments that were in another part of the country. Lloyds have stated it was made via the genuine card and Mr F 
says it wasnt made by him.
The transaction data for the use of the card around the time of the trip shows that:
Date Location/Payment type Amount
26/07/2019 ATM withdrawal location HN £80
29/07/2019 ATM withdrawal holiday 
location£100
29/07/2019 Store purchase holiday 
location£17.40
29/07/2019 Store purchase holiday 
location£239.35
03/08/2019 ATM withdrawal location 
HN - disputed£60
05/08/2019 Store purchase holiday 
location£3.95
06/08/2019 ATM withdrawal location HN - 
undisputed£100
 
HN is an ATM regularly used by Mr F near to his home and the holiday location is in the UK.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Theres clearly a disagreement between Mr F and Lloyds about who made the HN 
withdrawal on 03/08/2019, but from the data supplied by Lloyds, its evident that there was a 
five-day gap between 29 July and 3 August, followed by a two-day gap between 3 August 
and 5 August. What that means here is that its plausible for the card to have been used in 
both of those places.
Taken together with the fact that it was withdrawn at an ATM regularly used by Mr F and as 
mentioned previously, the pattern of withdrawals doesnt fit those of someone who has 
gained unauthorised access to the account, I think it more likely than not that Mr F was 
responsible for making this transaction or allowing someone else to use his card to do so. I 
appreciate Mr F and his rep will disagree with this, but an objective review of the evidence 
doesnt point towards an unauthorised use of the card.
Ive examined the other disputed transactions mentioned by Mr F and his rep and whilst its 
plausible that his card details could have been obtained by persons unknown to him, taken 
together with the disputed transactions related to the physical use of the card, it seems 
unlikely that there are two different scenarios responsible for these transactions. I cant see 
any reasonable explanation for how someone unknown to him or without his permission could have used his card or the details from it.  
For example, Mr F denies making a transaction for £35.74 to a well-known online 
marketplace. His statements show he made numerous other transactions through them prior 
to this one and had a monthly membership with them. So, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr F also made this transaction or allowed someone else to use his card as opposed to it 
being the result of fraud. If it was from fraud, Id expect many other disputed transactions 
related to online card usage to have been identified. 
While Im sure Mr F will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the 
conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mr F 
authorised or allowed his card details to be used to make the payments. So, taking 
everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr F responsible 
for these transactions. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman