DRN-4462096
The complaint
Dr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to collect the full balance 
on their credit card and that Halifax provided misleading information on its website. 
What happened
Dr L has a Halifax credit card account. In early 2023, Dr L made a large purchase which left 
them close to their credit limit. Dr L therefore made some ad hoc payments to the account so 
that they could continue to use the card before Halifax collected the balance in full.
Dr L was unhappy to find that Halifax didnt collect the full statement balance. They say this 
led to embarrassment when trying to use the card. Dr L highlighted the sections of Halifaxs 
website which they say is misleading but Halifax failed to acknowledge their concerns. Dr L 
wants Halifax to apologise for the incorrect information.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Dr Ls complaint be upheld. In summary our 
investigator thought that the terms of Dr Ls account allowed Halifax to reduce the direct 
debit payment if the balance is lower than the payment due to be collected. This was to 
avoid putting a customers account in credit.
Our investigator understood why Dr L found the information on Halifaxs website confusing 
but he didnt think it had made a mistake or acted unfairly. Our investigator thought Halifaxs 
payment of £20 compensation to apologise for any confusion was fair.
Dr L is unhappy with the investigation outcome. They think that Halifaxs clear statement that 
it will not reduce the direct debit payment comes after the payment details have been 
entered. So, its reasonable for a customer to act on this information that the direct debit 
payment will be taken in full.
Dr L doesnt think that taking the full direct debit payment would have placed their account in 
credit. Dr L wants the ombudsman to consider whether the reductions to the direct debit 
payment were appropriate in the specific circumstances of their account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that I have summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and that I 
have done so using my own words. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman allow 
me to do so but this does not mean I have not considered everything that both parties have 
given to us.
I know that Dr L disagrees with our investigators assessment of their complaint. But the 
purpose of my decision is not to address or answer every single point raised. Instead, my 
role is to consider the evidence and reach what I think is a fair decision. 
I appreciate the screenshot that Dr L provided showing the ways to pay includes a statement 
which says: Please note: any additional payments will not reduce or stop your direct debit if 
you have one set up. However, the terms of Dr Ls account say that a customer should not 
pay more than they owe when making any payments to the account and that if a customer 
pays by direct debit, Halifax may reduce your direct debit payment if your balance is lower 
than the payment to avoid putting your account into credit.
Each credit card statement says that the customer can make one-off payments in addition to 
their direct debit and that in most cases, this wont reduce the direct debit for that month. But 
I think the inclusion of the word most means that there will be some cases where the one-
off payments do impact the direct debit  as happened here.
I can see that Dr Ls February 2023 statement includes two significant transactions from 
January 2023 which left their balance near the credit limit. The new balance to pay was just 
under £1,300. So, when Dr L made three payments of £200 each in February 2023, these 
reduced the balance by £600.
As Ive said above, the terms of Dr Ls account allow Halifax to reduce the direct debit if 
your balance is lower than the payment. Although Halifax goes on to say that it does so 
to avoid putting your account in credit  I dont think this means that the only circumstances 
in which Halifax can reduce the direct debit is if a customers account will otherwise be put 
into credit. 
In Dr Ls case, the payments they made meant the statement balance was lower than the 
intended direct debit payment of around £1,270. So, I cant see that Halifax made a mistake 
when it reduced the direct debit to take account of the payments already made. I also cant 
see that this resulted in Dr L losing out financially, for example because they ended up 
paying interest on the balance because Halifax failed to take the full payment. 
I understand Dr L is unhappy with the wording that he saw when making the payments. 
Halifax has apologised for any confusion and paid £20. As I dont consider Halifax made a 
mistake with the direct debit payment, I dont require Halifax to do more than it already has 
to put things right. I am sorry that this is likely to disappoint Dr L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman