DRN-4037479
Complaint
Miss C has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and any checks would have 
shown that she had missed payments, defaults and previous county court judgments.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss C with a loan for £3,000.00 in November 2018. This loan had 
and APR of 97.3% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£7,294.32, including interest, fees and charges of £4,294.32, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £202.62. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Cs complaint and she thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Miss C with her loan. So she thought that Miss Cs complaint should 
be upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Miss C. 
In practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Miss C 
such that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Miss C could afford to repay 
any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
and obtained bank statements before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that 
Miss C was already significantly indebted. And Miss C had outstanding balances on at least 
one other high-cost loan.
I also have concerns that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. This is 
because Miss C was going to use at least half the funds to consolidate debts where the 
interest rate was significantly lower. And as amount of interest being added to this loan 
meant that Miss Cs payments werent going to be much lower than what she was paying 
already, its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was 
going to improve Miss Cs already precarious financial position going forward. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss C has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Miss Cs difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Miss Cs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Cs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss Cs circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Miss C with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss C has ended up paying (and is being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on a 
loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss C lost out because of 
what Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss C by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Cs loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss C made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt 
purchaser, should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,000.00 
originally lent. If Miss C has already paid Everyday Loans more than £3,000.00 then 
it should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Miss C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss C to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Miss Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman