DRN-4447287
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the outcome of an ATM dispute refund from HSBC Bank Plc 
(HSBC). She would like HSBC to pay her £500 compensation as she believes they have 
taken money from her account and lied to her.
What happened
Miss H says on 3 May 2023 she tried to withdraw £200 from an ATM but the cash didnt 
come out. So, on 22 June 2023 she raised an ATM dipute with HSBC. She says HSBC 
refunded the money but then took it back again. When she then complained to HSBC, she 
says they recredited the £200 back into her account, but this money went straight into her 
overdraft, and she was not able to spend it. 
Miss H says she was in a desperate situation, and she feels HSBC have stolen money from 
her. She feels she was lied to, as they told her she could have the £200 back, but when it 
was returned, she couldnt even use it.    
HSBC say they credited Miss Hs account with a temporary refund while investigating the 
ATM dispute. Then, following this, she told them she wished to cancel the dispute  so they 
took the £200 back. 
HSBC say they then credited Miss Hs account with £200 in resolution of the dispute, after 
she contacted them to ask for help. Miss Hs account was overdrawn by £209 before the 
credit reached. So, she ended up with -£9 in her account.
HSBC say they have not done anything wrong. In fact, they say they credited Miss Hs 
account without investigating the dispute as a one-time solution to help her in her difficult 
situation.
Our investigator considered this complaint but ultimately felt that HSBC had done nothing 
wrong. Miss H was not happy with this outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that although Ive only given an overview of what happened, 
Ive read and considered everything weve been provided in its entirety. Having done so, Ive 
decided not to uphold the complaint, Ill explain why.
HSBC have provided a copy of the Dispute Declaration Form Miss H was asked to complete 
after raising the ATM dispute. In this the option to cancel the dispute and close the case has 
been ticked, and signed by Miss H. Having seen this, I think its fair HSBC debited Miss Hs 
account with the £200 temporary refund they had initially issued her.   
Ive seen the transcript of the live chat Miss H had with HSBC on 20 July 2023, where she 
asked for the £200 to be credited back into her account. I can see that the customer 
representative explained why the temporary refund had been taken back. The customer 
representative agreed to uphold her dispute on this occasion, but also explained that the 
refund would go into her overdraft, leaving her account balance at £-9. So, I think HSBC was 
clear in their communication here and I do not agree that they lied to her about how the 
refund would be paid. 
I am sorry to learn that Miss H has been struggling financially and I am sure this outcome will 
come as a disappointment to her. But Ive looked at the interactions Miss H had with HSBC 
throughout the course of this incident and throughout this complaint process. From what Ive 
seen I dont think they have done anything wrong. HSBC upheld her ATM dispute without 
investigating it in order to help her through a tough time. Miss Hs genuine spending left her 
account overdrawn, and I have not seen any evidence that HSBC unfairly debited any 
money from her account.    
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman