DRN-2474949
The complaint
This is a complaint that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs M. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. Capital One sold Mrs M 
the policy when she phoned up to activate her new credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Mrs M has said the PPI was mis-sold because she wasnt employed when she took out the 
PPI, and so wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy. She says she had, by that point, 
finished working after the birth of a child, and she didnt then return to work. 
It is true that she wouldnt have been able to claim if she was already unemployed when the 
policy started. However, on the card application form she had filled in a few weeks earlier, 
she said that she was employed and stated what her occupation was. 
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs M, in the sense of telling her it suited 
her individual circumstances. But it still had to give her enough reasonable information for 
her to make an informed choice. However, I dont think it could have known that it needed to 
draw special attention to the provisions about employment, given that Mrs M had told it very 
recently she was employed  in fact Capital One is unlikely to have agreed to give Mrs M a 
credit card if it had known she was unemployed. 
I dont know how good the information was that Capital One gave, such as about costs and 
the length of time benefits would be paid, and exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions. 
But I dont think it likely that such information itself would have affected whether Mrs M took 
the PPI.
I also think it likely Capital One would have given her enough information for her to 
understand at some level what the PPI was for. So it seems unlikely that Mrs M told the 
sales adviser she would not be returning to work  in fact it seems likely that, at least at the 
time, Mrs M could have seen a potential use from the cover it offered if she lost earnings due 
to redundancy or sickness absence. 
Finally, from what we know of Capital Ones processes at this time, I think its likely the PPI 
was offered as a choice. 
In all the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman