DRN-4227928
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very and 
Littlewoods (Shop Direct), lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs R applied for a shopping account with Shop Direct in October 2001 and for a second 
account in February 2007. The second account was not initially owned by Shop Direct. That 
only happened in June 2008 when Shop Direct acquired the accounts of another business.
Mrs R complained to Shop Direct that the lending had been unaffordable for her.
Shop Direct responded and partially upheld her complaint. It said that it upheld her complaint 
from the credit limit increase made on 19 January 2008 in relation to her first account 
(x6453) and from 16 September 2008 in relation to her second account (x0921). In relation 
to the first account, Shop Direct said it would refund interest and charges on balances above 
£575.
 
Mrs R disagreed with the redress Shop Direct wanted to pay, so she brought her complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator thought that Shop Directs offer was fair, but Mrs R disagreed. Although she 
initially complained just about the proposed redress, she then explained that she thought 
Shop Direct should uphold her complaint from an earlier point.
Our investigator looked at her case again but didnt agree with Mrs R.
As Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
This service only has the ability to review complaints about this type of lending where the 
lending decision was made on or after 6 April 2007. That is the date when this type of 
consumer credit became subject to this dispute resolution process. So, I can only look at the 
decisions made by Shop Direct after 6 April 2007. And Shop Direct has already agreed to 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint about unaffordable lending from 19 January 2008 (or, rather, from 
when Mrs Rs credit balance was above £575) in relation to her first account and from 16 
September 2008 (when the limit was increased from £1,200 to £1,400) in relation to her 
second account. 
This means I only need to review the following lending decisions:
First account
When Shop Directs activity came under this service for the purposes of dispute resolution 
on 6 April 2007 Mrs Rs credit limit was £200. On 11 April 2007, five days later, Shop Direct 
reduced it to zero. It then increased her limit to £600 on 14 April 2007. This decision is within 
my jurisdiction to consider. There were no further credit limit increases between 14 April 
2007 and January 2008.
Second account
Shop Direct acquired this account on 5 June 2008. Prior to that the account was owned by a 
different business. I cannot consider the credit limit increases on Mrs Rs account which 
were granted by that other business until such time Mrs R has complained to that business. 
Mrs R has been informed how to submit a complaint to that business for activity prior to 5 
June 2008.
At the time of the account transfer Mrs Rs credit limit was £1,200. This had been decided by 
the other business. It stayed the same until Shop Direct increased her limit to £1,400 in 
September 2008. This would be the first lending decision I could review as part of this 
complaint. And as Shop Direct has already agreed to pay back the interest and charges on 
balances above £1,200 there is nothing further for me to consider.
 
What this means for Mrs Rs complaint.
There is only one credit limit increase to review  that is, the increase from zero to £600 on 
14th April 2007 (it having been reduced to zero by Shop Direct on 11th April 2007 from £200).
 
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mrs Rs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Shop Direct hasnt been able to provide evidence of any of the checks it did at the time of 
any credit limit increases. This isnt unreasonable given the length of time which has passed 
since then. But even if I conclude that it didnt do those checks, I then have to think about 
what it would have seen if it had done those checks.
In the light of the fluctuations up and down in Mrs Rs credit limit in the months leading up to 
Shop Directs decision to increase it to £600, I think Shop Direct ought to have completed 
enough checks to establish how much Mrs R was borrowing elsewhere and her income and 
essential expenditure.
 
In the absence of evidence of the checks Shop Direct did, we asked Mrs R to provide copies 
of her personal bank statements from the relevant period and a copy of her credit file 
covering the same period. Given the length of time since the relevant period, Mrs R wasnt able to provide these, although she provided copies of bank statements from her and her 
husbands business account. Unfortunately, they do not provide me with a sufficient picture 
of what Mrs Rs personal financial circumstances were like at the time of the lending. So, I 
dont know what Shop Direct might have seen if it did do necessary and proportionate 
checks. 
I do not think its unreasonable for Shop Direct to be unable to provide information from more 
than 15 years ago. In the same way, I dont think its unreasonable for Mrs R to not be able 
to provide her bank statements or credit file. But the onus is on Mrs R to show that Shop 
Direct did something wrong and if it had acted fairly that she wouldnt have lost out. Without 
clearer evidence of Mrs Rs circumstances, I cannot find in her favour. Where there has 
been other evidence available, Shop Direct has upheld her complaint.
 
This means that, on balance, I cant be satisfied that Mrs R lost out as a result of anything 
Shop Direct did wrong when it increased her credit limit to £600 on 14 April 2007.
I have also reviewed the approach Shop Direct has taken in relation to the offer of redress it 
made to Mrs R before she brought her complaint to this service. While I have not considered 
the merits of the decision, the proposed redress is in line with the approach this service 
would take if it had considered and upheld Mrs Rs complaint. So, I do not consider that I 
should direct any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It follows that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited does not have to do anything further
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman