DRN-4005688
The complaint
Miss O complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) have wrongly asked 
her to pay £1,182.95 to settle her car finance account.
What happened
Miss O acquired a car in February 2018 through a fixed sum loan agreement provided by 
Creation. In early 2019, Miss O was looking to part exchange this car for a different car and 
requested a settlement figure from Creation for her existing loan. Creation have provided 
evidence that she contacted them on 13 January 2019 and was provided with a settlement 
figure of £8,924.71. It was confirmed at that time that this was valid until 10 February 2019.
After the direct debit payment due on 28 January 2019 was made, for £262.07, there is no 
indication of further contact between either party until an amount of £8,662.64 was paid to 
the account on 4 March 2019.
Miss O has told us she believed this meant the account was settled. Shes also provided 
evidence from the car dealer involved who said that Creation had removed their financial 
interest in the vehicle once they had paid this figure of £8,662.64 to Creation, so they 
assumed the balance had been successfully cleared. They had been given this figure by 
Miss O, as they said only the account holder can request a settlement figure from Creation.
Theres been no evidence provided of any further contact between the parties until late in 
2021, when Miss O was in contact Creation and was given a settlement figure for the 
account of £1,182.95. She complained shortly after this to Creation, and in their FRL they 
said that she hadnt settled the account with the right amount or within the correct timescale 
in 2019, so the payment she made for £8,662.64 had been treated as an overpayment, 
putting the account into a credit balance position at the time.
They said that only when an account falls into arrears would their system alert them to an 
issue and require further payments. They also said that Miss O would have received annual 
statements for the account, and that on this basis, she still owed the money.
Unhappy with this, Miss O brought her complaint to our service. The investigator here upheld 
the complaint. They said Creation hadnt been able to provide any evidence of contacting the 
customer about the account between February 2019 and late 2021 either verbally or in 
writing, and didnt feel it was fair therefore to expect the customer to pay the 
interest/charges, when they believed the account to be closed.
Miss O accepted this, but Creation didnt agree with this view, and asked an Ombudsman to 
make a final decision. They said that Miss O was aware of the correct settlement figure and 
hadnt made the settlement for the correct amount, or within the timescale required, so they 
felt they had handled the account fairly.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2022. I made the following provisional 
findings:
Whilst I agree broadly with the investigator view here, their view did not explain what they 
were asking Creation to do to put things right. I initially reached out to Creation to confirm 
that as it appeared that Miss O had paid £262.07 short of the settlement figure, I didnt feel it 
was fair for her to now be expected to pay £1,182.95. I asked if Creation would accept a 
payment of £262.07 to close the account, and they agreed that they would, provided it was 
made in a timely fashion.
I then reached out to Miss O and put this to her. She didnt feel this was fair however, didnt 
agree that she owed that money, and felt that after this long without hearing from Creation, it 
wasnt fair for her to have to pay and had caused her distress.
I am satisfied that Miss O did still owe Creation £262.07 in 2019 after she tried to settle the 
account. From looking at the statement of account and the early settlement figure provided, 
Miss O appears to have made an error. When she was quoted £8,924.71 on 13 January 
2019 to settle the account, this will have accounted for the fact she also needed to make the 
upcoming direct debit payment on 28 January of £262.07. I say this, because the settlement 
figure was valid until 10 February 2019, after this direct debit was due to have been paid.
Miss O understandably cant remember the details of conversations about this from four 
years ago. It would seem most likely to me that she assumed she could take that £262.07 
payment off the settlement figure shed been given, and so has come up with an assumed 
settlement figure of £8,662.64, which shes given to the car dealers for them to pay off the 
finance. Shes cancelled the direct debit due in February 2019, and Creation have received 
this settlement figure from the car dealership in early March 2019, so it was also late.
Theres no evidence of any contact about a settlement figure with Creation after 13 January 
2019.
Both parties have made errors here. Miss O has made an error in her calculations of what to 
pay to settle the account. However, Id have expected Creation at some point to confirm this 
to Miss O. Theyve said they would have supplied annual statements but havent been able 
to provide these to our service. Also, its confusing that Creation appear to have released 
their financial interest in the vehicle, despite the finance not being settled.
This has ended up with Miss O thinking the agreement was settled, and Creation leaving the 
account in credit for over 2 years and cancelling the direct debit, before beginning to require 
payments again resulting in the complaint.
Creation havent been able to show that they contacted Miss O, but I dont think this means 
she shouldnt owe them the shortfall to clear the account. I am satisfied that it is fair for Miss 
O to make the shortfall payment to them of £262.07 still. But I dont feel that she should have 
to pay a figure of £1,182.95, which is based on the account not being cleared, and them 
using the payment she made to service the account including further interest for more than 
two years before asking her for payment again.
I also feel that Creation should recognise the distress theyve caused Miss O. They didnt 
contact her for over two years, and then asked her to pay £1,182.95. They havent explained 
why she owes the money, and after such a long time, its understandable why she would get 
upset about this. It seems she made an honest mistake, which has been compounded by 
lack of communication from Creation. On this basis, I think Creation should pay Miss O £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
When I spoke to Creation, they said they would accept a payment of £262.07 in full and final 
settlement to close the account, provided it was paid in a timely fashion. I think this is fair 
and would look to ask Miss O to pay them within 28 days of her accepting my final decision. When shes done this, I would expect Creation to remove all adverse information from her 
credit file regarding this agreement.
I intend to uphold this complaint, and intend to ask Creation Financial Services Limited and 
Miss O to do the following:
- Reduce the balance owing to settle this account to £262.07, which Miss O will need to 
settle within 28 days of accepting my final decision.
- Pay Miss O £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. If Miss O requests it, this 
amount can be set against the balance of £262.07, but if not they should arrange to pay it to 
her directly.
- Remove any adverse information regarding this agreement from Miss Os credit file, 
provided she has settled the remaining balance of £262.07 within 28 days of accepting my 
final decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and ask Creation Financial 
Services Limited to put things right as detailed above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After issuing my provisional decision, Miss O came back to me to say she believed she had 
been given another settlement figure, which she had passed onto the dealership where she 
was part exchanging her car. She said she hadnt deducted any amount from the settlement 
figure and hadnt paid it three weeks late. 
I went to Creation and asked them to provide all contact notes with Miss O for the period, to 
investigate whether this might have been the case. There was contact with Miss O in early 
February 2019, although its not noted as having included a settlement figure. Ive thought 
about this, and whether it might have included a settlement figure, and if it did, would this 
change my opinion on the case. 
Im not persuaded that it would. I say this because even if Miss O was given the reduced 
settlement figure at this date of £8,662.64, she would still have had to make her normal 
monthly payment of £262.07 later in February, and this being paid would have been included 
in the settlement quote. Its clear that the direct debit due on 28 February 2019 for £262.07 
was cancelled and wasnt paid. So, when the settlement balance was sent on 4 March 2019 
to Creation of £8,662.64, it would still have been short of that February 2019 payment of 
£262.07.  
Whichever way around this occurred, I am satisfied that Miss O did still owe Creation 
£262.07, when she believed she had settled the account. 
Unfortunately, Miss O also came back to me since I issued my provisional decision, to say 
that she had been contacted by a third party company who said that her debt of £1,182.95 
with Creation has been sold to them to collect.
I have shared this information with Creation and informed them that they will need to unwind 
this and allow Miss O to settle the account with them directly. Im satisfied that my provisional decision is fair, and still intend to ask Creation to put things 
right in the same way. They will also now need to ensure no detriment occurs for Miss O 
from them selling her debt on while we were resolving her complaint. 
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint, and instruct Creation Financial Services Limited and Miss O to do 
the following:
- Creation should reduce the balance owing to settle this account to £262.07, which Miss O 
will need to settle within 28 days of accepting my final decision. This needs to be able to be 
done directly with Creation, not through the third party company.
- Creation should pay Miss O £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. If Miss O 
requests it, this amount can be set against the balance of £262.07, but if not they should 
arrange to pay it to her directly.
- Creation should remove any adverse information regarding this agreement from Miss Os 
credit file, provided she has settled the remaining balance of £262.07 within 28 days of 
accepting my final decision. This includes removing any reference to the third party company 
Creation have sold the debt to since my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and instruct Creation Financial Services Limited to put things right as 
described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman