DRN-3777215
The complaint
Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax)  has unfairly declined her 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In November 2020, Miss P used her Halifax credit card account to pay a dentist in 
Hungary €820 (£737.75). In this decision, Ill refer to the dentist as D.
Miss P has provided a copy of the invoice, which explains what she paid for in 
English and Hungarian. It includes the following items:
1 x Panorama X-Ray €40
3 x Glasstip €360
6 x Temporary crowns €240
2 x Filling/Composit €100
1 x Mouth guard €80
Miss P has helpfully explained that the six temporary crowns were actually moulded 
into one. Miss P, D and Halifax therefore refer to crowns, crown (singular) and 
bridge interchangeably. For clarity, unless Im referring to a specific piece of 
evidence or testimony, Ill refer to the six temporary crowns as the temporary crown 
in this decision.
Miss P subsequently contacted Halifax to ask it to raise a partial chargeback for 
£370  which it did. The reasons given were: the mouth guard was too tight and 
[Miss P] is unable to wear it; the temporary crown is 2mm lopsided; and, [Miss P] 
did not received (sic) filling/composit. When it raised the chargeback, Halifax applied 
a temporary credit of £370 to Miss Ps credit card account.
D contested the chargeback, saying it had performed all elements of the contract, 
and Miss Ps treatment met strict and clear professional protocols.
Halifax emailed Miss P on 1 March 2021 and 15 March 2021 to ask her to comment 
on Ds response and provide any supporting evidence. Miss P didnt reply, and on 22 
March 2021, Halifax emailed her to say it would re-debit the disputed amount (£370).
Unfortunately, Halifax mistakenly re-debited the disputed amount twice  once on 
22 March 2021 and again on or around 15 April 2021. It corrected its mistake a few 
days later by applying a credit of £370 on 21 April 2021  and it paid Miss P £100 to 
compensate her for the inconvenience caused.
Miss P asked Halifax to refund the full amount (£737.75) under section 75 of the CCA 
 she said there had been a breach of contract by D, for which Halifax was legally 
answerable.
Halifax declined her claim.
One of our investigators didnt think it was unfair for Halifax to decline her claim: 
essentially, she agreed that D had performed all elements of the contract and said 
she had seen insufficient evidence that the goods supplied were not of satisfactory 
quality or that the services were not performed to an acceptable standard to the 
extent that there was a breach of an express or implied term of the contract.
Miss P disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 September 2022, which explained why I did not intend 
to uphold this complaint. It included the following provisional findings:
The chargeback
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services she paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply.
Halifax raised a partial chargeback for £370 at Miss Ps request and for the reasons she 
gave. When D contested the chargeback, Halifax twice asked Miss P to comment on Ds 
response and provide any supporting evidence. When it didnt receive a reply, it emailed her 
to say it would re-debit the disputed amount (£370) from her account. Up until the point it
re-debited the disputed amount twice, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong.
When it re-debited the disputed amount a second time, it clearly made a mistake  but Im 
pleased to see it rectified its mistake swiftly. And I think the £100 its paid Miss P is fair 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Section 75 claim
First, I think its important I explain why Halifax is involved  after all, it isnt a party to the 
underlying contract and it didnt receive and it hasnt kept any of the money Miss P paid D. 
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider (Halifax) is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier (D). Thats the limit of its liability. So, 
although Miss P is clearly very unhappy with D, unless the alleged conduct was a breach of 
an implied or express term of the contract, Halifax isnt liable.
Second, although the invoice and paperwork Ive seen dont say what law applies to the 
contract, when a medical procedure takes place in another country, I think its only fair to 
assume its the law of that country that applies. So here, I think Hungarian law applies. In the 
UK, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says certain terms are to be treated as included 
in consumer contracts. Under sections 9 and 49 respectively, it says any goods supplied 
must be of satisfactory quality  that is, they must meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  and any service provided must be performed with 
reasonable care and skill. Reasonable care and skill isnt defined in the CRA. However, it 
has generally been held to mean the degree of care and skill to be expected of someone
who provides those services of ordinary competence and experience. I dont know if the law 
of Hungary includes something similar. But even if I assume it does for the purpose of this 
decision, I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to decline Miss Ps claim given the available 
evidence. Ill explain why.
Ds actions
Miss P paid D for six temporary crowns, which were moulded into one and supplied. When 
she asked Halifax to raise a partial chargeback, Miss P said she was unhappy with the 
temporary crown because it was lopsided by 2mm. Miss P would later complain that she 
flew to Hungary for a permanent crown, not a temporary one, and D should never have 
started her treatment if they couldnt complete it. She says D only offers zircon crowns  and 
Miss P says she made it clear that she didnt want these as shes allergic to metal and zircon 
breaks easily. She also complains that D should not have given her a temporary crown, when they knew she wouldnt be able to return for some months due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. In an email to Miss P, D says the temporary crown will last for a maximum of one 
week. However, in an earlier letter, which Miss P referred to in an email to Halifax but which I 
havent seen, D purportedly said: The temporary denture is fit for purpose for 2-3 months. In 
any event, it was clearly a short-term fix. Miss P also says that parts of the temporary crown 
fell out  although she doesnt say when. And she says she had to return to Hungary for 
emergency treatment by another dentist as the work done by D was unsafe and made her 
prone to infections. Finally, she says D refused to remove two metal posts, despite Miss Ps
metal allergy, so she had to find a dentist who was willing to remove them.
Miss P has provided a detailed breakdown of the emergency treatment she had in Hungary, 
as well as photos of the temporary crown, and her correspondence with D.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think there was a breach of contract.
Even if Miss P initially flew to Hungary to get a permanent crown, she paid D for a temporary 
crown, which is what she got. That D did not or could not provide a permanent crown in a 
way that met Miss Ps requirements is not, in the circumstances, a breach of contract.
Likewise, Miss P did not pay to have the metal posts removed, so Ds refusal to remove
them cannot be a breach of contract.
I dont see how D could have known what would happen with the Covid-19 pandemic or 
what services Miss P would be able to access either in Hungary or Scotland in the coming 
weeks or months, such that giving her a temporary crown was a breach of an express or 
implied term of the contract  especially as she was subsequently able to get a permanent 
crown from another dentist despite the pandemic.
The temporary crown was clearly a short-term fix. Miss P says the work done by D was 
unsafe, but clarifies what she means by this when she later says: Even if the temporary 
crowns were perfect, they would have had to be come off after a few weeks as these do not 
close fully and the risk of infection is high when you leave them on. That a temporary crown 
needs to be replaced quickly reflects the fact that it is temporary  it is not indicative of 
flawed or shoddy work. Similarly, the fact that parts of the temporary crown fell out does not 
indicate that D did something wrong given how long the temporary crown was supposed to 
last. For me (or Halifax before me) to conclude that something had gone wrong, Miss P 
would need to provide a report by a suitably qualified medical practitioner which says as 
much  and she hasnt.
Miss P says the temporary crown was lopsided by 2mm and noticeable aesthetically. I 
havent seen any evidence that she mentioned this to D at the time and/or asked D to rectify 
it if she was unhappy. Its also subjective. And given the degree to which the temporary 
crown was allegedly lopsided and the fact that it was supposed to last for, at most, three 
months  though possibly just a week  Im not persuaded this would amount to a breach of 
contract.
To be clear, when Miss P travelled to Hungary at the end of March 2021, it was to get a 
permanent metal- and zircon-free crown  which is a cost she would have incurred in any 
event.
Miss P is also unhappy with the fillings and the mouthguard.
When she asked Halifax to raise a partial chargeback, Miss P said she asked for a full filling 
change in 2 of [her] teeth but the dentist who replaced D  because D was ill  failed to 
change the full filling and left one tooth unfinished. She says the dentist chose to only partially replace the filling without asking her. And she says the mouthguard is not fit for 
purpose because its too tight.
In an email Miss P sent Halifax on 26 March 2021, she referred to a letter she received from 
D on 20 November 2020. I havent seen a copy of this letter, but Miss P has translated it for 
Halifax, and says it includes the following:
We will change the fillings you are not satisfied with upon your next visit.
If the mouthguard is too tight and making your root canal treated tooth painful then 
you should not use it, the temporary denture is made of a material that protects your 
teeth anyway.
Miss P says Ds willingness to change the fillings is an acceptance of the validity of her 
claim, asking: why would they offer to change it if it was done properly? And she says that 
as they told her not to wear the mouthguard, it clearly wasnt necessary in the first place. 
Miss P adds that D made her mouthguard years ago that was also painful to wear  and 
asks why she made her pay for another one.
I appreciate the point Miss P is making about the mouthguard  especially if D told Miss P 
that the temporary crown was made of a material that protects her teeth anyway. However, I 
am not a dentist and it may be that its advisable or clinically desirable to wear a mouthguard 
in any event  and that the advantages and disadvantages of wearing one change when the 
patient experiences pain as a result. In the absence of a report by a suitably qualified 
medical practitioner, I dont think I can say the mouthguard was either redundant or poorly
made (i.e. too tight), such that it was a breach of an express or implied term of the contract.
Likewise, in the absence of such a report, I dont think I can safely conclude that a partial 
filling was a breach of contract. I dont accept that an offer to replace the filling or fillings is 
an admission of wrongdoing  it could simply be good customer service. Whats more, D 
was willing to replace the filling(s)  and made this clear to Miss P in its letter dated
20 November 2020. This is often a suitable remedy for a breach of contract and Miss P 
could have had this done when she went to Hungary in March 2021.
Finally, I dont know if Miss P has now received her medical records from D. I hope so. 
However, while she may have a right to these records and may take action against D if 
theyre not provided, I dont think it would be an action founded in contract. This means 
Miss P doesnt have a like claim against Halifax on this point.
I know Miss P will be very disappointed. However, based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I 
dont think Miss P provided Halifax with sufficient evidence of a breach of contract by D.
Halifaxs claim handling
Miss P is also unhappy with the way Halifax handled her claim. She says:
a Halifax employee told her to get another dentist to fix any problems caused by D as 
it would be further evidence that the treatment provided by D was unacceptable
a Halifax employee told her to travel to Hungary to have D fix and/or replace the 
temporary bridge at a time when international travel was prohibited due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic  Miss P says a temporary fix or replacement wouldnt have 
qualified as urgent medical treatment and such travel would therefore have been 
illegal  although she travelled to Hungary for a permanent fix
Halifax only told her D was willing to fix the problems after shed had the emergency 
treatment by another dentistHalifax ignored her requests for a recording of a phone call she had with Halifax on 
28 March 2021  and it didnt send her the paperwork she requested.
First, Ive listened to a recording of the call Miss P had with Halifax on 28 March 2021  
which Miss P sent us. Miss P spoke to three people and Ill refer to them, in order, as H1, H2 
and H3.
At no point during the call did a Halifax employee tell Miss P to get another dentist to fix any 
problems caused by D as it would be further evidence that the treatment provided by D was 
unacceptable. Nor did anyone tell Miss P to fly to Hungary.
In fact, when Miss P called Halifax, shed already booked her flights to Hungary and 
arranged to see the other dentist. I know this because when Miss P spoke to H1 she said: 
Yesterday, I logged on to my [credit card] just to check the balance to pay for the flights I
recently paid for
And when she spoke to H3 she said:
Im flying back, Im hopefully flying on Monday to get sorted what went wrong. I have 
to actually [word unclear] pandemic, go back, fly out, and get it sorted by another 
dentist. If thats not enough proof that what theyve done is not good enough, and I 
only claimed for the treatment thats got issues, I didnt claim for the whole treatment 
because some of them are fine, but the rest is not.
So it was Miss P  not a Halifax employee  that said her treatment by the other dentist 
should be proof or evidence of Ds wrongdoing. This is the only time that anything like this
is said during the call. And in reply, H3 simply says:
Potentially, I can look at referring it over to section 75 if you dont have chargeback 
rights if youre having to get treatment done off the back of something someones
done wrong
But H3 is clear throughout that Miss P will need something from a dentist that says the work
done by D was inadequate.
Second, D told Miss P it would fix the problems with her fillings when it wrote to her in 
November 2020  so I dont think it makes a difference when Halifax told her.
Finally, Miss P made a data subject access request (DSAR) and shes clearly now received 
a recording of the phone call she had with Halifax on 28 March 2021 in a format that meets 
her needs. As shes unhappy with the way it handled her DSAR, Miss P says shes going to 
refer Halifax to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I think its for the ICO to 
determine whether Halifax did anything wrong and I make no findings on this point.
Halifax hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Miss P wrote to ask me to clarify some points Id made and to ask some questions. She 
asked that I answer her questions before I make my final decision.
I wrote to Miss P to let her know I thought it was clear from her emails that she understood 
my provisional decision. She had explained why she disagreed with my provisional findings 
clearly and in detail. And I didnt consider it appropriate or necessary to respond to the points 
shed made or answer the questions shed asked before making my final decision. I 
explained that its important Im fair to both sides  and that corresponding with one party 
about the merits of the complaint and my decision simply wouldnt be fair.Miss P repeated her request  and I again refused.
Im satisfied Miss P has now had enough time to send me any additional comments or 
evidence shed like me to consider.
Below, Ive summarised and addressed the points Miss P made and the questions she 
asked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has made several points in reply to my provisional decision. I will respond to each 
comment in turn.
First, Miss P asked me to listen to the phone call she had with Halifax. She says an 
employee told her it will accept proof for having to fix what was carried out instead of 
the report by a suitably qualified medical practitioner. She asks: Why is that not 
enough?
Miss P further explains it was Halifax that told [her] to go ahead with fixing the issues 
after [she] explained to them that [she] cannot get a report as it was not available 
under UK law, and asks: Why is this being dismissed?
In my provisional decision, I explained that I have listened to the phone call and at no 
point does a Halifax employee say anything like this. On the contrary, the Halifax 
employee  who I referred to as H3 in my provisional decision  is clear throughout 
that Miss P will need something from a dentist that says the work done by D is 
inadequate. There is no mention that proof of having the dental work fixed will be 
accepted by Halifax.
Second, Miss P says D knew that flights would be grounded for months  and 
apparently discussed this with Miss P in the context of a time constraint. And yet D 
proceeded with the temporary treatment.
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt see how D could have known what would 
happen with the Covid-19 pandemic or what services Miss P would be able to access 
either in Hungary or Scotland in the coming weeks or months. Miss Ps comments 
havent changed my mind.
But even if I accept that D thought it was unlikely that Miss P would be able to return 
to Hungary to get a permanent crown soon, D could not have known what services 
Miss P would be able to access in Scotland (or indeed another country) in the coming 
weeks and months. And I do not agree it was a breach of an express or implied term 
of the contract to give her a temporary crown in the circumstances.
Third, Miss P says, the invoice of the dentist who then fixed the issuesis the proof 
that matters needed to be fixed. 
I disagree. As I explained in my provisional decision, Miss P paid D for a temporary 
crown, which was clearly a short-term fix. That it had to be replaced by a permanent 
crown reflects the fact that it is temporary  it is not indicative of flawed or shoddy 
work.Fourth, Miss P says D promised permanent crowns when they emailed [her] to fly 
over. Shes referred me to an email she received from Ds surgery on 
27 October 2020. The email is in Hungarian  but Miss P has provided a translation, 
which Ive included in full below:
Thank you for your patience. I have managed to consult one of our dentists. She 
recommended crowns with stops and thinks that it might be possible to extract the 
third tooth and have an implant fitted. Hope to welcome you as one of our patients 
soon.
This email is not a promise to provide permanent crowns. In any event, Miss P paid 
for, and received, a temporary crown. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
Halifax is only liable for a breach of an express or implied term of the contract. That D 
did not or could not provide a permanent crown in a way that met Miss Ps 
requirements is not, in the circumstances, a breach of contract.
Finally, Miss P says she could not get a dentist to review and comment on what D 
had done as dentists were only able to provide emergency treatment at the time 
because of the pandemic. She asks: Why are you demanding [I] submit something 
that I could not get lawfully or in any other way at the time? Its clear this question is 
very important to Miss P. At the end of her letter, she writes, in bold: Please tell me 
how it is fair, just, realistic and possible for me to provide a report by a suitably 
qualified medical practitioner when making the report was not permitted under UK 
law as it was not deemed to be emergency treatment.
I do appreciate Miss Ps frustration and I recognise that it may have been very 
difficult for her to get this sort of report given the extraordinary circumstances. Its 
regrettable that the dentist who provided the permanent crown in Hungary didnt 
provide the report required.
However, as Im considering the liability of Halifax for a like claim under section 75 
of the CCA, its important I consider what a court would require if Miss P had pursued 
her claim against D instead.
Its for the party that alleges a breach of contract to prove, on balance, that there was 
a breach of contract. For certain allegations, only a suitably qualified medical 
practitioner can say whether D did anything wrong. I know Miss P will think this is 
deeply unfair but even if I accept that she couldnt obtain this sort of evidence, it 
doesnt change the fact that its required for her claim to succeed.
Having carefully considered the further comments and evidence Miss P has provided, I 
remain of the opinion that she did not provide Halifax with sufficient evidence of a breach of 
contract by D. It was not, therefore, unfair for it to decline her claim under section 75 of the 
CCA.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Christopher ReevesOmbudsman