DRN-4096997
The complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited has treated him unfairly when handling a 
claim made on his home care policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his home emergency/care policy for British Gas to repair a water 
leak that hed been informed of by his water company.  British Gas sent an engineer to track 
and trace the leak with a number of excavations carried out with flow rate tests completed. 
This was done with a cut and cap technique. The engineer felt there was a leak between 
the property and the mains stop tap and this would need repairing.
Mr G was informed British Gas would repair around 20 meters of the pipework. He wanted 
all of the pipework replacing from the property boundary to his home which totalled around 
60 meters. British Gas didnt think this was necessary as it would only need to replace the 
pipework which contained the leak. But it said it would conduct a water flow test ahead of 
any repair work to the pipe being completed.
British Gas attended the property in February 2022 and completed works to repair the leak. 
This involved using a moling technique to lay a new water pipe in the ground without the 
need to dig a trench. British Gas said the waterflow rate after the work was good and even 
though the litres per minute was lower in the house compared to where the pipework entered 
the property boundary, the engineer felt this was explained by the reduction in the size of the 
pipework as it moved from 22mm to 8mm.
Mr G doesnt think the water pressure has returned to the levels he had previously and he 
thinks British Gas caused this with its initial track and trace work. When the pipe was cut and 
capped, it needed to be fixed with couplers before being re-laid. Mr G feels the presence of 
the couplers left on the pipe is causing the reduced water pressure. But he has no reading of 
this previously and has based this on his experience of the water pressure previously only.
Mr G later had some groundwork completed on his property. During the course of this, 
damage was identified to the rainwater clay drainage pipes. The repaired water pipe had 
been laid through these when moled into the ground and Mr G asked that British Gas cover 
the repair cost of this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt British Gas needed to do something to put 
things right. He said that he felt it was fair that British Gas attend Mr Gs property to assess 
the water pressure levels and determine whether these are lower than they should be. If they 
are, it should take steps to rectify this. He also felt it was fair that British Gas cover the repair 
costs that Mr G said he incurred when his rainwater drainage needed fixing. He also felt it 
was fair the British Gas recognised the distress and inconvenience Mr G had experienced 
when dealing with this claim and it should pay £250 to Mr G in recognition of this. 
British Gas didnt think it needed to pay for all of the costs claimed for by Mr G. It said it 
didnt think it was reasonable to say six meters of clay piping needed to be replaced as it 
could have done a spot repair around the damaged area. It felt costs to cover a meter were 
fair. Mr G didnt accept this offer and our investigators opinion remained unchanged.
Because British Gas hasnt agreed with the recommendation, the complaint has been 
passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator and Ill 
explain why.
When the complaint was first brought to this service, it was focused on the water pressure 
and whether British Gas should do anything else to rectify this and the water leak. It was 
later the damage caused when this was completed was identified and Mr G asked for this to 
be refunded. This was considered as part of this complaint and British Gas has given its 
comments on this and what it thinks is fair. So I think it had the opportunity to consider this 
and it is right that it is dealt with as part of this complaint.
British Gas completed the repair works to Mr Gs water pipe in February 2022, replacing the 
amount of pipe it felt was needed to do this. It didnt replace all of the pipework but I dont 
think it needed to. Providing the repair is effective and lasting, it has done what it needs to 
and Mr Gs concerns about it increasing the amount of pipe repaired are not because there 
are concerns about a leak still be present, but because he is worried British Gas has 
reduced the pressure with its earlier works.
Mr G doesnt think British Gas has fixed his overall problem which is a drop in his water 
pressure and he feels this has been noticed since British Gas first attended and cut and 
capped his water pipe when tracing the leak. And there was no indication of an increase in 
the pressure level after the leak was repaired.
I understand why Mr G is concerned about this, but Ive not been provided with anything 
which demonstrates there was a drop in the pressure beyond Mr Gs opinion on the matter. 
So in the absence of anything else, I dont think its fair to say British Gas has caused this to 
drop.
British Gas has said it is willing to assess the water pressure at Mr Gs property again and 
determine whether there is an issue here. I think this is fair and it will need to determine, 
based on the water flow test results now, whether it thinks there is an issue. And in the 
absence of Mr G being able to evidence what this was previously; this is a fair resolution for 
his concerns.
British Gas has questioned why six meters of pipework repairs were required to the drainage 
pipe at Mr Gs property. Mr G hasnt been able to provide any additional photos of the 
damage beyond the original photo supplied showing the new water pipe in the drainpipe. 
Hes said the repair couldnt be done by simply replacing one meter of pipework because of 
the need to ensue a consistent fall on the drainage pipe. For this to be achieved six meters 
of pipe in total needed to be replaced to allow for avoiding the newly laid waterpipe.
The photo provided demonstrated the water pipe had damaged the drainage pipes and while 
I understand British Gass concerns about the need to replace as much pipe as Mr G did, I 
dont think what has been completed was unreasonable. And because the fall of the 
pipework would need to be adjusted to avoid the water pipe in the middle, Im persuaded 
that Mr G acted fairly when having the repairs completed that he did. This was to repair the damage caused by British Gass engineer when the repair work was completed and because 
of this, I think its fair that it covers the cost of the invoice supplied by Mr G. 
There has been delays to the handling of this claim and I think British Gas could have taken 
steps to work with Mr G sooner. This may have allowed it to repair the damaged drainage 
pipe itself. Ive seen Mr G has made multiple attempts to contact British Gas to progress the 
claim and had a number of enquiries unanswered and this will have added to the distress 
and inconvenience of the situation. I think it is fair that British Gas recognises the impact of 
this and pays Mr G £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused with its handling of this 
claim.
Putting things right
British Gas should do the following to put things right.
Reassess the water pressure at Mr Gs property. If it feels this is below where it 
should be, it should take steps to rectify this.
Pay the costs incurred by Mr G when he needed to pay for repairs to his rainwater 
drainage. If this cost has been paid by Mr G, it should add 8% simple interest to this 
amount from the date of payment until the date it provides the refund.
Pay Mr G £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused with the handling of this 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman