DRN-3314227
The complaint
Miss B complains Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank wont refund money she 
was tricked into transferring to a fraudster.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both sides, so I wont repeat them at length 
here. Briefly, it is accepted by both parties that Miss B received a call from someone 
impersonating Danske Bank who persuaded her to move money to what she believed was a 
safe account.
Miss B transferred £10,000 to the fraudsters in two transactions  first £9,000 and, minutes 
later, £1,000. Over the following couple of days, the fraudsters called back and asked her to 
transfer the rest of her money  but Miss B became concerned and reported the matter as a 
scam. 
Initially when Miss B contacted Danske Bank she said she hadnt carried out the 
transactions. It rejected her claim  as it was satisfied she had done so, and it didnt think 
there was any reason it ought to have stopped the payments. It did, however, contact the 
banks which received her money, but no funds remained.
Miss B referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld her complaint. 
They were of the view that the activity on the account was so unusual for Miss B that Danske 
Bank ought to have contacted her before allowing the payments to proceed and, had it done 
so, the scam would have been prevented. They also thought Miss B had acted reasonably in 
the circumstances  given the sophisticated techniques employed by the fraudsters.
Danske Bank didnt agree, in summary it said:
- It was impossible for Miss B to have received a call from the number on the back of 
her card as claimed  as fraudsters had been prevented from spoofing this number. 
In fact, she received a call from an office number associated with the bank (as well 
as a mobile number). It said Miss B ought to have called that number before 
proceeding and, if she had done so, the fraud would have been prevented.
- The only way the fraudsters could have known confidential information about her 
account is if she had disclosed it. And, if she did disclose it, then she ought to have 
known that someone other than the bank might know this information.
- The transactions werent unusual as the investigator claimed. They were made 
using her registered device, to valid account numbers and sort codes, and 
authenticated using Strong Customer Authentication. It didnt think the amount of 
the transactions alone was enough for them to have flagged as potentially fraudulent.
- Miss B had been sent a text message warning about impersonation scams a few 
weeks before the fraud took place. It had also provided a more specific warning in a 
document included with her statements a few months before the scam. 
Danske Bank didnt respond to our investigators further points, so the case was passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss B authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account she is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Danske Bank should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Danske Bank argue that the transactions were unremarkable, but in doing so largely rely on 
the fact they would have appeared to have been properly authorised by their customer. 
Theres no dispute that they were, but having considered this matter carefully, I think Danske 
Bank should have considered the possibility that Miss B was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud and intervened before the first payment was allowed to proceed. 
Ive reviewed the statements provided by Danske Bank and I do think that the disputed 
activity stands out as being remarkable. I cant see that a transaction of more than £450 
debited her account in the six months before the scam. That means that the first disputed 
payment was more than twenty times larger than the next highest genuine transaction in the 
previous six months. There was a single transaction of £2,500 about nine months before the 
scam, but even this payment was far smaller than the first disputed payment and clearly 
wasnt, in any case, typical activity. Along with the size of the transaction and the extent to 
which it stood out against previous activity, I also note that the first transaction cleared 90% 
of the available balance of Miss Bs account and went to a new payee  both potential 
indications that Miss B was falling victim to a scam. 
Overall, I think the activity ought to have given Danske Bank some concerns that Miss B was 
at risk of financial harm from fraud and it ought to have intervened before allowing the 
payments to proceed. 
Had it called Miss B before the first payment took place then its reasonable (in the absence 
of any evidence to the contrary) to think that she would have told Danske Bank that she was 
being asked to move money to a safe account and, with its knowledge of scams, the matter 
would have come to light and the loss from both transactions would have been prevented.Ive also thought about whether the actions Miss B took should mean that she shouldnt 
receive full reimbursement, but Im not persuaded by Danske Banks submissions on this 
point. 
Its first important to point out that Miss B is a layperson who is seemingly unaware of this 
type of scam or the tricks employed by fraudsters  such as impersonation of a banks 
phone number. Even if I accepted that Miss B did not receive a call from the number on the 
back of her card, both sides agree that she did receive a call from a number associated with 
the bank  and I can understand why this would have been convincing.
Quite how much information the caller knew about Miss B and her accounts (as well as how 
they obtained it) is unclear. Miss B says that the fraudsters knew quite detailed information 
about her account  including recent transactions and were able to mirror the banks security 
questions using this information. As the bank suggests, its possible that Miss B inadvertently 
disclosed information at another point in time. But, even if this was the case, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that she was negligent by not connecting any earlier disclosure and the 
subsequent call. After all, phishing attempts are often deliberately designed to obscure the 
fact that sensitive information is being disclosed. 
Neither do I think a failure to heed earlier warnings issued by the bank  either by text or 
enclosed within bank statements leads me to a finding of negligence either. Importantly, the 
warnings were not given at the time the payments were made.  And, in any case, the text 
message is not specific to this type of scam and the warning enclosed with her statements is 
to be found on the second page of quite a long document which deals with, among other 
things, updates to the banks terms and conditions. 
Overall, I dont think that Miss B was negligent here and I wont be making a deduction from 
the award.
In relation to interest, I understand Miss B was saving for a house deposit at the time and 
had to put those plans on hold due to the fraud. The loss of the funds came at a time when 
she was expecting a child and meant she had to continue to live with family members. So, 
Im satisfied Miss B intended to use the funds and has been deprived of them since the 
fraud. As such, Danske Bank should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the refund from 
the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I instruct Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank to 
pay Miss B:
- The amount lost  £10,000, minus any amount recovered or already returned
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman