DRN-3164394
The complaint
Mr S complains that OVO (S) HOME SERVICES LIMITED (OVO) is unfairly charging both 
VAT and Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) on Electrical Wiring Cover.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr S held Electrical Wiring Cover with OVO.
In June 2021, OVO sent a renewal letter to Mr S. This letter outlined the total renewal 
price which was split under two headings, Insurance Contract and Service 
Contract. The first included IPT, and the latter included VAT.
Mr S saw this and complained. Saying only IPT should be charged. Mr S also didnt 
agree to the renewal, so no further premiums were charged.
OVO disagreed, saying VAT and IPT are two different elements and a percentage 
would be considered for both parts of his cover.
The complaint was brought to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it, saying 
the cover was made up of two separate contracts.
oThe Service Contract isnt an insurance contract, meaning the premium 
didnt attract IPT. But it was a service, so VAT was charged on the premium 
as a tax assessed on the value added to goods and services.
oThe Insurance Contract is an insurance contract, meaning it did attract IPT.
Mr S disagreed, reiterating his belief the cover overall was an insurance contract. He 
also raised concerns about OVO more widely and whether it paid VAT. He also 
raised concerns about previous renewals at this point going back several years.
The investigator looked again and didnt change her mind, saying it had applied the 
IPT fairly throughout the life of the cover. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, for the same reasons previously given by 
our investigator.
The matter in question in this case is whether its fair for OVO to charge both IPT and 
VAT on cover of this nature.
Im satisfied this cover is made up of both an insurance contract, and a service 
contract as OVO has explained. And I think OVO has been clear in its explanation to 
Mr S as to why IPT and VAT respectively apply, as well as within the paperwork its 
provided to him. 
Put simply, I agree the Service Contract element of cover attracts VAT and the 
Insurance Contract attracts IPT. So, Im not persuaded OVO has made a mistake 
by calculating the premiums as it has.
The wider concerns Mr S has raised about OVO would sit outside of the scope of this 
service. So, I wont explore these any further within this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman