DRN-3028709
Complaint
Ms H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added interest, 
fees and charges to her accounts which caused her financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Halifax should have realised 
that Ms H was experiencing difficulty by January 2016 and so it needed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Hs overdraft from this point. 
Halifax didnt accept our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft and associated fees from January 2016. 
By this point, Halifax would have seen that Ms H had incurred significant unarranged 
overdraft and returned item fees. Equally, I can see payments to debt collection agencies 
too. So I think that by January 2016, Halifax should have realised that Ms H was struggling 
and offered her assistance rather than adding even more fees and charges to accounts she 
was already struggling to manage. 
As Halifax didnt react to Ms Hs account usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And as this led to Ms H paying 
additional interest, fees and charges when she was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that she lost out as a result of Halifax failing to act fairly and reasonably towards 
her. So Halifax needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Ms H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Hs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Hs account balances so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from January 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Ms H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Hs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the accounts in January 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Ms Hs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman