DRN-3693001
The complaint
Mr W complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) has unfairly 
handled a claim made under his legal expenses insurance (LEI).
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In May 2020, Mr W made a claim under his DAS LEI policy related to an employment 
dispute.
Mr W initially sought to appoint his own solicitors, but in August 2020 he explained it 
didnt have capacity to take him on, so DAS appointed Company A shortly after.
Following some back and forth, it seems Mr W had a dispute with Company A. With it 
saying it was not able to confirm if his claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of 
success due to lack of evidential documentation. 
Mr W subsequently appointed a separate firm to take on a matter related to a 
neighbour dispute. DAS declined to cover these costs, saying it had not agreed to 
these in advance, nor were they related to his accepted employment claim.
Mr W complained to DAS. In March 2021 it issued a final response, saying it was 
reasonable for it to ensure the claim had reasonable prospects and it was reasonable 
for it to rely on Company As advice. DAS said it wouldnt cover costs on materials or 
time for Mr W compiling evidence as he was required under the policy to do this. Nor 
costs incurred related to a neighbour dispute. DAS did however agree to pay £150 in 
compensation for any inconvenience caused by any communication failings.
Our Investigator looked into what happened. He explained we were unable to 
consider any complaint about Company As actions and signposted Mr W to the 
appropriate body. And he explained we could not consider events that had taken 
place after DAS final response letter of 12 March 2021.
The Investigator said DAS acted reasonably trying to mediate between Mr W and 
Company A. He said its requirement of a prospects of success assessment before 
agreeing to fund the claim was fair. And as it was Company As role to lead the claim, 
he wasnt persuaded to direct DAS to cover costs Mr W incurred in obtaining 
information for Company A. He said the compensation it had offered was fair.
Mr W disagreed. He said Company A was appointed by DAS and acted in DAS 
interests and remained as its agents. He also raised concerns about the costs 
Company A had incurred without being given a breakdown of this, saying he 
shouldve been updated regularly on these costs. And he reiterated the costs hed 
incurred himself because of Company As failures.
The Investigator agreed DAS had appointed Company A, but explained that 
Company A worked on Mr Ws behalf from that moment on.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W feels that DAS should be responsible for the actions of Company A.
Once an insurer appoints a solicitor its role is limited, usually to funding the fees and 
disbursements and it wont have much control over how the claim progresses. So I 
dont think it would be fair to hold DAS responsible for how Company A handled the 
claim, unless I was persuaded there were obvious and avoidable delays which it was 
aware of.
So, Ive considered the life of the claim (up until March 2021). It seems DAS 
progressed the matter promptly as Id have expected. Mr W evidently has serious 
concerns about Company A and doesnt feel he shouldve provided further evidence 
it was asking for to support his claim. I think this sits outside of the scope of DAS 
responsibility as this is a matter between Mr W as a client, and Company A as his 
solicitor.
Mr W has asked for costs from DAS directly to cover his time and expenses in 
compiling evidence, but this is all outside of the terms of the policy. And in the 
circumstances I see no fair or reasonable reason that DAS should cover these, so 
Im not going to direct it to do anything further.
Mr W also attempted to obtain costs related to a neighbour dispute. Ive taken into 
account the events around this, but Im not persuaded this is an extension of the 
employment dispute claim that DAS is covering, so I think its fair it has declined to 
cover these for the reasons it has given.
DAS made an offer of £150 in the circumstances for any service-related issues, 
specifically communication issues which Mr W accepted and I understand has 
already been paid. Having reviewed DAS actions in handling this claim, Im satisfied 
this is a fair and reasonable sum for any shortcomings on its part. 
Since the complaint came to this Service, the claim has moved on considerably with 
DAS making an offer of £15,000 and attempting to reach a drop hands settlement 
with the other party. Mr W has expressed frustration at this offer and the sums 
involved. Our Investigator has outlined this would be considered separately under a 
different case, so I wont comment on these issues any further within this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman