DRN-4024736
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited delayed in accepting an application for life and critical illness cover. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. In summary Royal London cancelled an application Mrs C made in July 2020. It 
reinstated the application in October 2020, re-sent the application form and the policy started 
on 25 November 2020. Very sadly Mrs C passed away in August 2021 and the estate made 
a claim. Royal London didnt meet the claim and cancelled the policy as Mrs C hadnt 
correctly answered the questions on her application with regard to her change in health and 
referral for investigations. Had it done so no policy would have been offered at that time. Mrs 
R represents the estate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs R appealed on behalf 
of the estate. She felt that it was both wrong and bad practice to cancel the policy without 
informing Mrs C.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and some sensitive medical 
details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and considered the 
representations the estate made after the investigators view. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that the estate will be very disappointed my decision and Im sorry it doesnt 
bring more welcome news, particularly given the very sad circumstances that led to the claim 
being made. But for the following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by the 
investigator:
Mrs C had applied for a policy through an independent intermediary online on 30 July 
2020. Royal London responded the next day to Mrs C by email asking further 
underwriting questions. Im satisfied that this email was sent and to the correct email 
address. I dont find that Royal London was under a duty to chase Mrs C for a 
response. 
On 21 August 2020 Mrs Cs intermediary called Royal London to check whether Mrs 
C had responded to the questions, it confirmed that it had been chasing Mrs C for a 
response. Royal London said it hadnt received a response. The intermediary asked 
Royal London to cancel the application. Royal London did so  I find this was fair. It 
acted on an instruction from Mrs Cs insurance intermediary. 
However, on 27 October 2020 Mrs C called Royal London to enquire about her 
application. She said that she did wish to proceed and asked what was outstanding. 
Royal London re-activated the application. It confirmed Mrs Cs email address and 
re-sent the email asking for further details. On 9 November 2020 Mrs C called for an 
update. She said that she had emailed the information two weeks ago. But as it 
appeared that the email hadnt sent, she asked if she could give the information on 
the phone, and she was passed through to a different operative to do so. 
For completeness I would add that Mrs C didnt say on this call that she had called 
several times prior to this. Nor is there anything to suggest that she was told there 
were delays in processing applications at Royal London. I have not disregarded Mrs 
Rs testimony that Mrs C would have responded and did try to contact Royal London 
prior to the call on 27 October 2020, but there is no evidence before me to support 
this.
Mrs R, on behalf of the estate, says that Mrs C was waiting to hear from Royal 
London and that it shouldnt have cancelled the policy without informing Mrs C. She 
also makes the point that Mrs C had until the end of September to return the form. I 
have considered these points. But there was no date given to respond to the further 
underwriting questions, and as the policy didnt commence until November 2023  it 
was the application for the policy that was withdrawn on the instruction of Mrs Cs 
insurance intermediary. In this decision Im looking at the actions of Royal London 
only, not of the intermediary. As indicated above as a response hadnt been received 
by Royal London from Mrs C, I dont find it was wrong to accept the intermediarys 
instruction to withdraw the application in August 2020.
On the basis of the information Mrs C provided Royal London on 9 November 2020 it 
offered Mrs C terms on 23 November 2020. But Mrs C hadnt updated Royal London 
about the changes to her health prior to 9 November 2020, or changes to her health 
before the policy commenced on 25 November 2020. Unfortunately, there had been 
changes to Mrs Cs health by that time. It hasnt been disputed that had she told 
Royal London about the changes, terms wouldnt have been offered to Mrs C by 
Royal London. In all the circumstances I dont find that Royal London treated Mrs C 
unfairly or that there is any basis for me to require Royal London to pay the estates 
claim.
The estate has complained about the time taken to respond to the claim, and I can 
see Royal London apologised and offered compensation. But as explained by the 
investigator Im not able to look into the issues experienced by the representatives of 
Mrs Cs estate when making the claim. The estate can take this up directly with Royal 
London if it wishes to accept the offer made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Lindsey WoloskiOmbudsman