DRN-3795783
The complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has treated him unfairly 
following a claim made under his HomeCare range insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr B or British Gas includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr B owns a property that is let to tenants. They reported issues with the boiler. So, 
in May 2022, Mr B contacted British Gas. It sent an engineer who reviewed the boiler 
and ordered parts for its repair, reattending several days later to replace parts.
Several visits followed, with British Gas saying its engineers discovered additional 
parts that needed repair or replacing on different visits, which they ordered and fitted. 
A discussion took place between Mr B and an engineer about replacing the boiler, 
and Mr B obtained quotes to replace it. 
In mid-June 2022, British Gas said another engineer visited and advised further parts 
and replacements were necessary. British Gas says Mr B said at this time he no 
longer wished for the boiler to be repaired, and was purchasing a new one.
Mr B says he had made arrangements to have a new boiler fitted given British Gas 
delays and poor communication. And after British Gas rang him to confirm it could 
repair the boiler, he had no faith in its workmanship or ability to carry out repairs.
Mr B complained, saying British Gas should contribute 50% towards the cost of the 
new boiler amongst compensation for his time and inconvenience of his tenants. And 
he said British Gas engineer had caused the failure of the boiler through the cross 
threading of a joint.
British Gas said the necessary parts for repair wouldve been available the next day 
and it couldve still repaired the boiler. And it said Mr B couldve stopped the new 
boilers installation following its assurances of this. It said itd advised Mr B to obtain 
a new boiler since 2016 and his boiler was on a reduced service list, meaning parts 
may not be available or obtaining them could be subject to extended delays. 
British Gas disagreed the cross threaded joint was the root cause of the boilers 
failure given the age and number of issues present. But it awarded him £70 
compensation in light of delays and number of appointments needed to try to repair.
Our Investigator looked at what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
British Gas had provided assurances it could still repair his boiler, but he went ahead 
with a replacement anyway. And even if its engineer had caused damage, it 
appeared there were multiple issues with it, so this was not the sole cause of the 
need for repair. She also said the compensation was reflective of the impact of any 
delays or issues to Mr B, and couldnt award for his tenants.
Mr B disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy covers him for repairs to his boiler. And the policy says it will replace a 
boiler if it is less than ten years old in certain circumstances if it is unable to repair it. 
Mr Bs boiler is at least 18 years old, so this means British Gas isnt required to 
replace the boiler in line with the policy terms.
British Gas has carried out a number of visits and repairs to Mr Bs boiler. And it has 
said its agents discovered additional issues upon completing repairs and further 
investigation. British Gas was still looking to repair the boiler around a month after its 
first visit. And on its face, I would say this is longer than wed expect to see.
Mr B said these visits were caused by a British Gas engineers mistake when cross 
threading a screw during an initial repair. British Gas hasnt denied the cross 
threading took place, but has said this wasnt the root cause of the issue. Ive taken 
Mr Bs points on board, but Ive also been given no independent expert evidence that 
supports this was the root cause of the issues. And in light of the age of the boiler 
and seemingly the number of issues the engineers were trying to address, I find 
British Gas comments this was not the root cause to be persuasive. 
Mr B has said he lost faith in the ability of British Gas engineers, which is why he 
went ahead with replacing the boiler when he did. Even if I were in agreement that 
British Gas engineer had cross threaded a screw or bolt, Im not satisfied its 
reasonable for this action to undermine all of their agents experience nor ability to 
carry out repairs in the future. So, this wouldnt persuade me it would be reasonable 
for Mr B to not accept British Gas offer to repair the boiler in line with the policy.
Mr B has said he had an obligation to his tenants which is why he took action when 
he did. I understand his commitment to his tenants, but similar to the above, Mr Bs 
decision to buy a new boiler appears to be based on his belief British Gas wouldnt 
have repaired the boiler or wouldve taken too long. I note British Gas says it couldve 
done this swiftly after its call to him, prior to the new boiler being fitted. And Ive been 
given nothing to show this wouldnt have been possible.
So, for these reasons Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
British Gas to cover the cost of a new boiler, nor that this is required by the policy.
British Gas has apologised for delays and offered £70 compensation. I understand 
Mr B has discussed the impact of the claim on his tenants, and I dont doubt it was 
frustrating for them to be without hot water for a time. But, Im unable to make any 
award for their distress or inconvenience. And taking into account the direct impact 
on Mr B, Im satisfied the offer British Gas has made is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 Jack Baldry
Ombudsman