DRN-2373987
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs S complain First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS (PRIMIS) made errors 
when they applied to re-mortgage a property, causing delays, distress and financial loss. 
Most of our contact has been with Mr P, so for ease my decision will largely refer just to him.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs S planned to move into a property Mrs S owned but had been renting out. So 
in January 2019 they contacted PRIMIS, a broker, to change the buy to let mortgage to a 
residential mortgage. Mr P says they wanted the re-mortgage completed by 1 April 2019 as 
the buy to let mortgage would then move from a fixed rate to a higher standard variable rate. 
But it didnt complete until about two months later, on 11 June 2019. Mr P complained to his 
lender, his solicitor and PRIMIS.
In its final response, PRIMIS said it made errors by not completing the application form on a 
Joint Borrower Sole Proprietor (JBSP) basis, and by failing to spot this and correct it when 
it checked the mortgage offer issued by the lender on 21 February 2019. It noted the lender 
and solicitor accepted their part in the delays and had paid Mr P compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience, with the lender also paying compensation for some of the 
additional interest Mr P had paid. 
PRIMIS said it had already refunded the £399 broker fee Mr P paid, offered to pay £163 of 
his additional interest costs and arrange future mortgages free of charge. But since Mr P 
remained unhappy, it had looked again at how to put him back into the position he should 
have been in if not for the errors PRIMIS had made. 
PRIMIS said completion took place 72 days later than planned. But that there would have 
been a 27 day delay even if PRIMIS hadnt made any errors, and the lender had also 
accepted responsibility for a 14 day delay caused by its technical issues. PRIMIS accepted 
it was responsible for the remaining 31 days of delay, during which it said Mr P had paid an 
extra £38.96 of interest per day. So it said its delays cost Mr P £1207.76 in additional 
interest. It offered to pay him this, as well as a further £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused him. But PRIMIS said it would deduct the £399 fee it had 
already refunded Mr P from this, as it thought this fee should stand. Therefore, PRIMIS 
offered Mr P a total of £958.76 in its final response to his complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint about PRIMIS to our service, saying its errors 
cost him two months lost rent because his buy to let tenants moved out by April 2019 but 
then completion was delayed. And that its errors meant he paid additional unnecessary 
interest when the buy to let mortgage moved from a fixed rate to a higher interest rate. 
Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair to consider the loss of rent, as Mr Ps tenants would 
likely always have moved out when they did. And he didnt think PRIMIS was responsible for 
all the delays. But he did say its errors caused a delay between submission of the mortgage 
application and the correct mortgage offer being received, setting aside the 14 day delay 
during this time caused by the lenders system issues. He thought PRIMIS had offered 
compensation totalling £1,357.76, and that this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr P disagreed. He said PRIMIS was mainly responsible, as it made a fundamental error 
with the initial mortgage application which itd had time to correct before the planned 
completion date. And that PRIMIS lacked integrity because it didnt tell him it had made 
errors until February 2020, previously blaming delays on the lenders technical issues. 
As Mr P disagreed, his complaint came to me for a decision. I contacted Mr P and PRIMIS to 
clarify what compensation PRIMIS had offered. And I said that I thought it was fair for 
PRIMIS to refund half the £399 broker fee, so £199.50, to Mr P because while PRIMIS had 
completed the re-mortgage, Mr P paid for a professional service and PRIMIS accepted it 
made errors that caused Mr P distress, inconvenience and financial loss. 
Mr P reiterated that PRIMIS lacked integrity and had made a fundamental error, and he 
explained more about the impact of this  he said hed had to rearrange his removals 
company and disappoint his daughter about where a party would be held. He said PRIMIS 
should cover his financial losses in full. And that not only should he not have to pay the 
PRIMIS broker fee, but that PRIMIS should also pay him the commission the lender paid it. 
PRIMIS didnt agree Mr P should be refunded for £199.50 of the broker fee. It said it had 
previously refunded him the full £399 fee to try and simplify the complaint. But to put 
Mr P in the position he should always have been in, Mr P should pay the full £399 broker fee 
as the mortgage had successfully completed.
Im now in a position to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to be clear that this decision is only about the actions of PRIMIS, not the other 
parties involved, though I will need to refer to them. 
Its not in dispute that PRIMIS made errors here. It accepts it initially failed to submit Mr Ps 
re-mortgage application on a JBSP basis and that it failed to spot that when the lender 
issued its mortgage offer. Therefore, whats left for me to decide is what would be a fair and 
reasonable way of putting things right in the circumstances. 
Ive been provided with correspondence between some of the parties at the time of the re-
mortgage, as well as more recent correspondence between the lender and PRIMIS. And 
PRIMIS has also provided a timeline of events that suggests the two month delay in 
completing the re-mortgage wasnt just because of the errors made by PRIMIS. So I need to 
look at what delays were caused by the errors PRIMIS made.
PRIMIS submitted the original incorrect application on 15 January 2019 and so the mortgage 
offer issued by the lender on 21 February 2019 was incorrect. PRIMIS accepts it missed the 
opportunity to identify and fix its mistake when checking the mortgage offer. Instead, its error 
wasnt spotted until 5 April 2019. PRIMIS then took steps to correct the application and by 
8 April 2019 PRIMIS was in a position to submit the application to the lender. But 
unfortunately, the lender had ongoing technical problems and it seems the application didnt 
make meaningful progress until late April 2019. The timeline PRIMIS has provided, as well as what its said about Mr Ps solicitor offering 
compensation to Mr P, suggests Mr Ps solicitor didnt at first notice the work needed was for 
a JBSP mortgage. And that this was also spotted on 5 April 2019. PRIMIS says another 
solicitor therefore needed to be brought in to do this work. So even if PRIMIS hadnt made 
any errors, I think errors made by other parties mean it was unlikely the re-mortgage would 
have completed by 1 April 2019 as originally planned.
Nonetheless, PRIMIS did make errors and it accepts this. To put things right, PRIMIS has 
offered Mr P £150 for Mr P his distress and inconvenience plus £1207.76 towards his 
interest costs. But its taken £399 off this for the broker fee its already refunded Mr P, as it 
says the full fee should still stand since the mortgage did in fact complete. 
Mr P says PRIMIS made a fundamental error, and I agree it did. But as Ive said, the 
evidence suggests PRIMIS wasnt the only cause of delays. The re-mortgage completed just 
over two months later than planned. PRIMIS has offered to compensate Mr P for 31 days of 
the additional interest he paid in this time, totalling £1,207.76. Thats about half of the two 
month delay, and I think thats fair compensation for the part PRIMIS played in the delays 
that cost Mr P additional interest. 
I think the delays would have been inconvenient, disappointing and frustrating for Mr P and 
Mrs S, as they were waiting to move in while coordinating this with their tenants moving out 
and a removals company. And they say they werent able to carry out a family party as 
planned. But I think the £150 PRIMIS has offered for this is fair compensation for the part its 
errors played in causing Mr P and Mrs S unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
However, PRIMIS has deducted £399 from the compensation its offered Mr P because it 
says the full broker fee its already refunded to Mr P should still stand. It says Mr P would 
have always paid this fee and the re-mortgage completed successfully. However, Mr P says 
he received poor service so shouldnt have to pay this fee at all, and that PRIMIS should 
also pay him the commission it was paid by the lender. 
PRIMIS would never have passed the lenders commission to Mr P, so I dont think its 
reasonable to ask it to do that.  But I think PRIMIS should refund £199.50 of its £399 broker 
fee to Mr P. I say that because while PRIMIS did complete the re-mortgage, Mr P paid 
PRIMIS to provide a professional service. And while the mortgage did ultimately complete, I 
dont think its fair to say that the mortgage completed successfully as PRIMIS has said, 
because PRIMIS accepts it made errors that impacted Mr P. So in this case, I think it would 
be fair for PRIMIS to refund £199.50 of the broker fee. 
I know Mr P would like PRIMIS to pay for the rent he says he lost between his tenant moving 
out and the re-mortgage completing. But the tenants would have needed to move out by 
April 2019 had the re-mortgage completed as originally planned - Ive not been provided with 
any evidence to suggest the tenants were going to stay after this. And in any case, this was 
a property owned by Mrs S, so Mr P and Mrs S had access to it from April 2019 after their 
tenants had moved out. Therefore Im not asking PRIMIS to compensate Mr P for lost rent.
Mr P also feels very strongly that PRIMIS acted without integrity. Ive seen emails between 
PRIMIS and Mr P in April 2019 in which Mr P says he wants to complain about the lender, 
PRIMIS says the lender has suggested PRIMIS has made errors and so they are trying to 
sort everything out, and PRIMIS says the issue isnt Mr Ps individual case but is instead a 
technical issue with the lenders system. 
It may be that PRIMIS could have been clearer with Mr P at an earlier stage about its errors 
and the part they played. But the role of our service is to put the consumer back into the 
position they should have been in had a business not made an error. Ultimately, Mr P raised a complaint about PRIMIS and it offered him compensation. Mr P remained unhappy 
with that so he asked our service for an impartial investigation. And having considered his 
complaint, Im satisfied that compensation totalling £1,357.76 with a deduction of £199.50 is 
fair and reasonable compensation overall in this case. 
Putting things right
For these reasons, Im satisfied PRIMIS should pay Mr P a total of £1,357.76. But it can 
deduct £199.50 from this, as a way of taking back its half of the full £399 broker fee it has 
already refunded to him.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. First Complete Ltd trading as 
PRIMIS should pay Mr P and Mrs S a total of £1,357.76, but it can deduct £199.50 from this 
for half of the fee it has already refunded to them.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman