DRN-2868253
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr H complain about the cash settlement offer made to them by the underwriter of 
their household insurance - Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) - following a claim for storm 
damage. 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr H made a claim for damage they say was caused by two storms in February 
2020. Ageas confirmed that storm conditions had been met and instructed its loss adjuster 
(W) to inspect the damage.
W said damage to Mrs As and Mrs Hs property had been caused by storms. Its report noted 
lead flashing had bent backwards and several tiles and a fascia board to the rear of the 
property had blown from the roof. It noted the fascia board had suffered wear and tear and 
was rotten and recommended Ageas accept the claim for the tiles but not the fascia boards.
 
Ageas sent another loss adjuster (F) to carry out a further assessment of the damage and 
to fully scope the repairs. F noted the damaged tiles and flashing but also said the fascia 
capping needed to be replaced. F said that because the timber fascias  or bargeboards 
that the capping would need to be nailed to were rotten, the bargeboards too would need 
replacing. 
F said satellite photos taken around five years ago showed that some of the damage to the 
roof was present before the storm. It said that, whilst the storm wouldve caused damage to 
any roof, the poor condition of the bargeboards had been a contributing factor to the damage 
thered been. F said it wasnt possible to estimate the damage the storm would have caused 
to a correctly maintained roof. So it scoped for a full repair and advised Ageas that a cash 
settlement would be the only resolution as no reputable trade would not guarantee their 
works on such a roof. And because of the poor condition of the roof before the storm, F said 
Ageas should deduct 50% from the settlement amount, less Mr H and Mrs As £300 excess. 
So the amount offered to Mr H and Mrs A was £3855.86.
Mr H and Mrs A felt the cash offer was too low and complained. Mr H told Ageas he wanted 
to know how Ageas had arrived at the 50% amount and wanted a copy of Ageas report. 
Ageas say Mr H told it that a local roofer had been up to his roof multiple times to fix tiles and 
remove chimneys and, that even though paint was peeling from the wood, it wasnt rotten. 
 
Ageas issued its Final Response Letter (FRL) but didnt increase its offer. It said the rotten 
bargeboards had contributed to the damage, which was a result of wear and tear and not the 
storm. It said the storm damage would have been minimal if the roof been in a good state of 
repair. But Ageas said it would consider the report from Mr Hs and Mrs As roofer. 
Because Mr H and Mrs A were unhappy with this response they contacted us. Mr H said his 
property was at the top of hill and is particularly affected by strong winds. He felt the 
assessor changed its position on his claim when it saw that the house was three storeys high 
and would need scaffolding. He accepted there was some level of wear and tear but didnt 
think it justified a 50% reduction in the cash settlement. And that Ageas hadnt provided him 
with the explanation hed asked for about the deduction. Mr H told us it wasnt the fascia 
boards that had blown off in the storm but another wooden part of the roof and that the 
quotes hed got for the repairs had come in at around £8,000. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although thered been storm 
conditions, the main cause of the damage had been wear and tear, which was excluded from 
cover. Our investigator said the cash settlement offer of 50% of what it would cost Ageas to 
repair the damage was reasonable. 
Mrs A and Mr H didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Mr H said he still wanted a breakdown of how Ageas had arrived at the 50% 
deduction on the settlement. Mr H sent us photos of parts of his roof that he said were taken 
between two and three years ago and said hed send us a copy of his own report into the 
cause of the damage. When this wasnt received, our investigator contacted Mr H and 
suggested that he and Mrs A should consider commissioning an experts report to support 
their claim. Our investigator didnt receive any such report, so reviewed the photos Mr H had 
sent but didnt change her view. Mr H and Mrs A asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there were storm conditions on or around the date Mr H and Mrs A 
said the damage happened. Its also not in dispute that the damage to roof is consistent with 
storm damage. What is in dispute is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage 
and whether Ageas cash settlement offer was unfair and unreasonably low.
 
The terms of Mr H and Mrs As policy says on page 18, you are not covered for any loss 
or damage resulting from wear, tear and depreciation. And in the Storm or flood section of 
the policy wording, under the What is not insured heading, it says, Damage caused 
by.wear and tear or deterioration. Under the General Exclusions section of Mr H and 
Mrs As policy on page 18, it says, We do not cover any loss or damage that happens 
gradually over a period of time. And under the Buildings & contents conditions it says, 
You must take reasonable care.To keep your home in a good state of repair and To avoid 
or limit any loss, damage or injury. So the policy terms are clear that damage caused by 
wear and tear and damage that occurs gradually is excluded from cover and that Mr H and 
Mrs A must maintain their home to a good standard as a condition of their cover. 
Ageas loss adjusters report noted that the fascia cappings would need to be removed so 
that damaged tiles on the edges of the roof could be replaced. And then the fascia cappings 
themselves would need to be replaced by being nailed to the bargeboards or fascias. From 
the photos Ive seen of Mr H and Mrs As roof, I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to 
have concluded this.
But Ageas also said that the bargeboards the fascia capping would need to be nailed to are 
rotten and would also need to be replaced. 
Ive reviewed the photos taken by Ageas loss adjusters after the storm and I can see that 
the propertys bargeboards and their cappings to the rear and side elevations appear 
weathered and brittle.The satellite photos provided by Ageas taken between 2014 and 2017 show that some of the 
tiles were already missing. And also that the bargeboard capping to the front elevation was 
missing in places and that what remained appeared brittle and splintered.
Mr Hs and Mrs As photos appear to show that the tiles to the roof of the single storey 
extension were complete and in good condition. But these photos were taken two to three 
years ago and before the storm. And its difficult to see much of the rest of their roof from the 
other photos theyve provided.
Ageass loss adjuster (F) concluded in its report that the roof showed evidence of damage 
caused by wear and tear and some pre-existing damage. Which is why the loss adjuster 
suggested a 50% deduction from the cash settlement amount. Im not an expert, but - on 
balance - the photos Ive seen appear to show quite a lot of damage that is more consistent 
with wear and tear occurring over time than storm damage. So I dont think its unreasonable 
that Ageas made a deduction from its cash settlement offer for wear and tear, because it is 
excluded from cover.
These conclusions were reached by Ageas experts. So for me to be able to consider 
whether Ageass experts are - on balance  wrong and that the main cause of more of the 
damage was the storms and not wear and tear, Id need to see expert testimony confirming 
this. Mr H and Mrs A havent provided their own experts report. So Mr H and Mrs A have 
given me no reason to doubt Ageas experts findings about the wear and tear to their roof or 
the main cause of the damage. 
Mr H and Mrs A have questioned the extent of the discount Ageas applied to its cash 
settlement offer.  Ageas experts said that if the roof had been well-maintained, the damage 
to the roof caused by the storm wouldve been minimal. From the photos Ive seen - and 
because Ive not seen any experts opinion saying that the main cause of more than half of 
the damage was the storm - I cant say that the 50% deduction is unreasonable or unfair.
Mr H and Mrs A said the overall cash settlement amount was too low.  Often an insurers 
costs will be less than the cost to a consumer of carrying out the work themselves because 
insurers are able to negotiate discounts with suppliers and contractors.  But when an insurer 
offers only a cash settlement  like Ageas has here - we usually consider its fairness 
according to whether or not a business has taken into account what the consumers costs 
would be. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Ageas to base its 
cash settlement offer on Mr Hs and Mrs As costs and not its own. One of the conditions of 
Mr Hs and Mrs As cover is that they must keep their property in a good state of repair. 
Much of the damage to their roof appears to have been caused by wear and tear and Ageas 
has included repair of this damage in its costs, even though its excluded from cover. So I 
dont think its reasonable for me to then require Ageas to base its cash settlement offer on 
Mr Hs and Mrs As costs and not its own because Mr Hs and Mrs As costs are likely to be 
higher than Ageas.
I dont think its unreasonable that Ageas didnt provide Mr H and Mrs A with the breakdown 
of the 50% deduction that they wanted. Ageas experts said its difficult to know how much 
damage the storm would've done to well-maintained roof and Ive not seen any expert 
evidence that says the damage caused by the storm can be precisely quantified and 
determined. So I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to have made a general allowance 
for the damage excluded from cover by applying a percentage discount, which couldnt be 
itemised or broken down. And as Ive already said, I dont think the 50% deduction is 
unreasonable.
But  rather than providing the breakdown of the 50% deduction - Ageas sent Mr H and Mrs 
A a copy of its experts report. And I think, after reading the report, its reasonable to think that Mr H and Mrs A wouldve understood what damage Ageas felt was pre-existing and 
what was caused by wear and tear. I think Mr H and Mrs A would also have understood that 
Ageas had included the repair of the damage caused by wear and tear in its costs. So 
despite Ageas not being able to provide the requested breakdown, it did provide Mr H and 
Mrs A with information that wouldve allowed them to understand what itd considered when 
arriving as its cash offer, which I think is fair and reasonable.
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr H and Mrs As complaint and so I wont be 
requiring Ageas to amend its cash settlement offer.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs and Mrs As complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman