DRN-3878017
The complaint
Ms P has complained about how Capital Home Loans Limited (Capital Home Loans) 
treated her between August 2018 and January 2022, when her mortgage account was in 
arrears.
What happened
Ms P held a shared equity mortgage with Capital Home Loans which she started accruing 
arrears on around November 2014. Although Ms P was in arrears, she was still making 
some payments towards her mortgage, it wasnt until 2018 Ms P became totally unable to 
contribute to her mortgage payments and Capital Home Loans informed Ms P it was 
commencing legal proceedings. 
In September 2018, the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) assisted Ms P in corresponding 
with Capital Home Loans. CAB informed Capital Home Loans Ms P had a chronic illness 
that had affected her mental health and due to both conditions she was unable to work. 
Despite this, with help from friends and family, Ms P was able to clear her arrears in full and 
legal proceedings were adjourned by the court. 
Unfortunately, as Ms P was still unable to work, the arrears started to accrue again. CAB 
said Ms P was intending on being able to contribute with assistance from the Department for 
Work and Pensions (DWP), but later explained Ms P had a severe episode with her mental 
health which delayed her being able to sort it out. 
The arrears continued to build throughout 2019, and CABs authority to communicate with 
Capital Home Loans expired. Capital Home Loans made several attempts to get in touch 
with Ms P by phone, letter, email and field agent visits and on 28 November 2019, it sent a 
letter explaining that it had exhausted all attempts to resolve the situation with Ms P and 
gave 15 days notice of its intention to seek a repossession order. It then confirmed it was 
starting legal proceedings again in January 2020.
Ms P started engaging with Capital Home Loans again and confirmed she had been trying to 
sort things out with DWP. Capital Home Loans had returned the paperwork it needed to, but 
Ms P explained she was having to resubmit paperwork as it seemed to have been lost either 
in the post or by DWP. Communication was ongoing about this through May and June 2020, 
and Capital Home Loans confirmed legal proceedings were stopped due to the coronavirus, 
Covid-19 pandemic (the pandemic) and that they wouldnt start it again while the DWP 
issue was pending. It recommended Ms P chase DWP as it was unable to do that on her 
behalf. 
Contact dropped off for some time, but Ms P got in touch with Capital Home Loans again in 
June 2021 to confirm that she intended to make a lump sum payment to clear the arrears. 
She explained she had been hospitalised in December 2020, suffered with long-Covid 
throughout January, sadly her mother passed away around the same time, and she was 
then diagnosed with another health concern which required surgery and ongoing treatment. 
Ms P was waiting for an email from Capital Home Loans to confirm how she could go about 
making the payment. Ms P was unhappy there was a delay in receiving the email and once 
she did have access to it, she was unhappy Capital Home Loans requested evidence of 
where the funds had come from before it would accept the payment. Ms Ps concerns have 
mainly related to this period of time, but all of the issues surrounding this were investigated 
separately under a different complaint reference, so I wont be commenting on anything 
related to that in this decision. 
During that complaint, Ms P raised a new complaint point about how Capital Home Loans 
treated her from August 2018 to January 2022. Our investigator said it wouldnt be 
appropriate for them to look into this before Capital Home Loans had had an opportunity to 
do so itself, so the new complaint point was referred back to Capital Home Loans. Capital 
Home Loans investigated this including other new complaint points as follows:
Capital Home Loans didnt inform Ms P the October 2018 court date had been 
withdrawn until the day it was due to take place. 
Capital Home Loans didnt stop fees and charges to Ms Ps account while she was 
waiting for DWP to set up regular payments. 
Capital Home Loans instructed field agents to visit Ms Ps home, prior to, and during, 
the pandemic. 
Ms P experienced unnecessary problems when she set up a direct debit in February 
2022. 
Capital Home Loans issued a final response letter addressing these issues on 5 July 2022. 
In summary, Capital Home Loans said that overall it thought it had helped Ms P with her 
situation as far as it could, but there were some areas it accepted it could have done better. 
Specifically, it said Ms P could have been informed sooner that the court case in 2021 had 
been adjourned. That it wasnt the right decision to send field agents to Ms Ps home during 
the pandemic. And that it took Ms P longer to set up a direct debit than it should have. 
Capital Home Loans apologised and offered Ms P £250 to compensate her for any distress 
and inconvenience caused. It also offered to refund some arrears fees she incurred in 2020. 
Ms P did not accept Capital Home Loans response and referred her complaint back to this 
service. Our investigator reviewed everything that happened, but they felt the compensation 
offered by Capital Home Loans was a fair way to resolve things. As Ms P remained unhappy 
the complaint was referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
October 2018 court date
Ms P says she only found out her court date was cancelled on 2 October 2018, the same 
day it was supposed to take place. 
Having looked into this further, I dont think Capital Home Loans did anything wrong. I say 
this because Ms P didnt pay off her arrears in full until 27 September 2018 and the call 
notes suggest she was advised in that call that legal proceedings would cease. Capital 
Home Loans then contacted its solicitor to inform them the same day. And CAB who was still 
representing Ms P at the time, was updated on 1 October. Capital Home Loans solicitors informed the court that Ms P had paid off her arrears in full 
and asked for an adjournment, which was granted on 2 October. So, while Ms P may have 
found out on the day, I dont think this is surprising in the circumstances. Capital Home 
Loans was proactive in stopping legal proceedings and I dont think it could have done 
anything much sooner than it did.
It seems a similar chain of events happened in September 2021 when a new court date was 
set to take place. Ms P paid off her arrears in full shortly before the court date. In this 
instance, Capital Home Loans has apologised because Ms P wasnt aware the court case 
had been adjourned until she phoned to enquire about it. Capital Home Loans says it should 
have already sent her an email earlier that day to confirm the outcome. 
As Capital Home Loans has accepted it could have communicated this sooner, I dont think I 
need to look into this further. From what I can see, Ms P still found out on the same day 
because she phoned Capital Home Loans herself and I think an apology is sufficient in the 
circumstances. 
Fees and charges while waiting for DWP payments
Capital Home Loans has confirmed Ms P was not charged any arrears fees to her account 
while she was waiting for DWP to set up regular payments throughout 2019. While Capital 
Home Loans did charge some arrears fees in 2020 it has now offered to refund those fees 
and adjust the interest to reflect that as well. 
Ms Ps account was charged with other fees which havent been refunded, but Capital Home 
Loans was within its rights to apply those fees to Ms Ps account. As much as I empathise 
with Ms Ps situation, I cant ask Capital Home Loans to refund fees that were charged in line 
with the Tariff of Charges Ms P would have received when she took the mortgage.
Unfortunately, as difficult as Ms Ps circumstances were, she was in significant arrears on 
her account and unable to make her CMPs for extended periods of time. There were also 
long periods of time where Capital Home Loans lost contact with Ms P and so, after several 
attempts to get in touch with Ms P, it eventually took legal action which would result in 
additional fees. 
As Ive said above, Capital Home Loans was entitled to charge Ms P the associated costs 
for that. Overall, I think its been fair in not charging arrears fees for both 2019 and 2020 
even when it was entitled to. 
Field agent visits
Capital Home Loans sent field agents to visit Ms Ps home in 2019 and 2021. 
Based on the lack of contact Capital Home Loans had with Ms P in 2019, I dont think it was 
wrong to send field agents to her home in order to try and resolve the situation. This 
happened again in 2021, but considering Ms Ps health and the ongoing pandemic, Capital 
Home Loans has accepted it wasnt appropriate to send field agents at this time.Based on Government guidelines for the pandemic in 2021, Capital Home Loans was 
technically allowed to send field agents when it did. I appreciate, under normal 
circumstances, this probably would have been the most appropriate thing to do having lost 
contact with Ms P once again. But Capital Home Loans was aware Ms P had a chronic 
illness that would have made her particularly vulnerable during the pandemic, so its 
reasonable to say a field visit wouldnt have been appropriate for Ms P at this time and I was 
pleased to see Capital Home Loans acknowledged that in its response. 
Capital Home Loans has said sorry to Ms P and confirmed that it will consider this action 
more carefully in future. Capital Home Loans has also offered compensation of £250 which 
is to acknowledge any areas it thinks it could have done better, including this issue. I think 
the other issues Capital Home Loans has upheld will have had less impact on Ms P and so 
my award for those issues, if any, would have been relatively low. Considering that, I think 
the £250 offered in total is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as this is broadly in line 
with what I would have suggested for this particular situation.  
Setting up a direct debit
Ms P is unhappy with issues she encountered when setting up a monthly direct debit. Shes 
also unhappy she incurs additional interest due to the day the direct debit is taken.
Ms P phoned Capital Home Loans to sort out her direct debit for her monthly repayments in 
February 2022. Capital Home Loans accepts this didnt go as smoothly as it should have. 
There were some issues to do with Ms Ps surname having changed and this took longer to 
resolve than it should have. 
I havent listened to the calls that took place, but I understand Ms P was placed on hold a 
few times and had to speak to Capital Home Loans three times in one day. Capital Home 
Loans agrees this would have been frustrating and has upheld this part of Ms Ps complaint 
already. The compensation its offered includes this and based on what its said about the 
calls, I think its fair to have offered some compensation. 
That said, the issue stems from Ms Ps surnames being different on her mortgage account 
and payment account, so I dont think the issues were totally avoidable. Ms P may not have 
experienced problems with this previously as she was making her payments manually 
before. But Ms P hadnt changed the name on her mortgage account and told the call 
handler she didnt want to. I think this more likely than not would have caused some 
problems for any direct debit instruction. And the matter was resolved the same day, so the 
inconvenience was limited to that day only. 
Considering everything, I would only recommend a small award to acknowledge that Capital 
Home Loans has said this could have been handled in one call. So, I still think the £250 
compensation Capital Home Loans has already offered is still fair in the circumstances. 
Ms P arranged for the direct debit to be taken on the 4th of every month, which means she 
will incur interest as the payment is actually due on the 1st of every month. Capital Home 
Loans has explained all accounts are operated this way and I cant ask Capital Home Loans 
not to charge interest for this. So, if Ms P remains unhappy she would need to amend her 
payments to be made on 1st of every month instead. Unfair treatment from August 2018 to January 2022 
When referring her case for a final decision, Ms P referenced regulations and legislation  
including the Equality Act 2010. I feel its important to explain that our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts. This means we dont have the power to make a finding on whether 
Capital Homes Loans has breached the legislation Ms P has referred to. My role is to make 
a finding on what I consider to be fair and reasonable, and in doing so, Ive taken relevant 
regulations and legislation into account.
Ms P has complained that she was treated unfairly between August 2018 and January 2022. 
This is a very broad complaint point and I think the main issues Ms Ps unhappy with are 
covered by her other more specific complaint points  either in this complaint or her previous 
complaint.
Im sure the situation Ms P found herself in will have had a profound impact on her, but I 
dont think that means Capital Home Loans is solely responsible for that. Ultimately, Ms P 
was in significant arrears for a number of years and Capital Home Loans needed to manage 
that as best as it could. From the correspondence Ive seen, Capital Home Loans was 
understanding of Ms Ps situation. It gave her a long time to sort things out whenever she 
presented an option for repaying her arrears and I havent seen any evidence to suggest it 
chased her when it shouldnt have.
Ms P went through long periods of being unable to contact Capital Home Loans due to her 
health, and except for the field agents sent during the pandemic, I dont think its 
unreasonable Capital Home Loans tried to get in touch with Ms P several times, using 
various methods. When CAB had authority to represent Ms P, Capital Home Loans kept it 
informed and worked with it to find a way forward. 
Capital Home Loans seems to have been responsive whenever Ms P did get in touch. And I 
havent seen any instances of the representatives Ms P spoke to not being understanding of 
her situation or being obstructive in any way. Ive reviewed the whole file, including a 
significant number of contact notes, and overall I think Capital Home Loans has treated Ms P 
fairly other than the isolated events Ive commented on above. 
So, Ive considered everything, and I dont think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. I know 
this will be disappointing for Ms P and I empathise with everything shes been through over 
the last few years, but I think the main stresses Ms P will have endured are down to the level 
of arrears she was in and external circumstances outside of Capital Home Loans control. 
The mistakes Capital Home Loans did make were short term. 
Given what Ms Ps told us, I can understand why she may feel Capital Home Loans has had 
a great impact on her and caused her to lose trust in it. But Im still persuaded Capital Home 
Loans did what they could to make up for the mistakes they made and did so with Ms Ps 
personal circumstances in mind. Its for that reason I think £250 is fair in the circumstances. 
If Ms P now wants to accept Capital Home Loans offer she can sign and return the attached 
settlement form.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman