DRN-2499181
The complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to add a contractual annual 
increment to his annuity. He says that the terms of the original contract provided for annuity 
payments to be increased by 3% per annum once they were in payment.
What happened
Mr N held pension savings with an occupational pension scheme. Those pension savings 
arose from a period when he was contracted out of the state pension and so paid a reduced 
rate of national insurance contributions. As a result the pension savings needed to be used 
to purchase an annuity income at retirement and provided a guaranteed minimum amount 
for that annuity.
In 1988, around a year after leaving the employer where he had accrued the pension 
savings, Mr N decided to transfer the pension savings from the occupational scheme to a 
personal pension with Aviva. It appears that he was assisted in making that transfer by an 
independent financial advisor. As a result of the transfer Aviva took on the liability for 
providing the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) that Mr N was entitled to. The pension 
plan that Mr N took would pay those GMP benefits when he reached age 65.
I can see that Mr N asked Aviva in 2011 if he could take his benefits early  at that time he 
was aged 58. But Aviva explained that Mr Ns pension savings were insufficient at that time 
for it to provide the GMP amount which it was required to under the relevant legislation.
Mr N took his pension benefits when he reached age 65 in July 2018. At that time Aviva 
agreed to pay him the GMP amount funded by the majority of his pension savings, and a 
very small additional annuity. But the GMP annuity that Aviva put into payment didnt benefit 
from any annual increases. Mr N complained to Aviva in 2020 about its failure to add any 
annual increases to his GMP annuity. Aviva explained that the original terms of its contract 
with Mr N allowed it to not add increases if the cost of setting up the annuity exceeded the 
value of Mr Ns pension savings.
Mr Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that Aviva had 
acted in line with the terms of its original agreement with Mr N. So she didnt think that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr N didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr N and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
My starting point in deciding complaints such as this is to look at the agreement that was 
reached between Mr N and Aviva when the pension plan was originally set up in 1988. 
I think there are two parts of that agreement that are particularly relevant to this complaint.
Firstly the policy declares that an escalation rate of 3% per annum will be applied to Mr Ns 
pension once it is payment. But later in the document is the following clause;
The rate of increase in pensions shall not be such that the pension and Widows 
pension which can be purchased with the Capital Sum shall be less than the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension and the Guaranteed Minimum Widows Pension 
respectively.
When Mr Ns pension plan was taken out, the investment growth that Aviva might have 
reasonably expected to see was far higher than might be seen today. And over the years, 
that has meant that the value of Mr Ns pension savings has failed to keep pace with what 
would be needed to provide benefits equal to the GMP. And it was for that reason that Aviva 
told Mr N in 2011 that it would be unable to pay his pension benefits earlier than it was 
required to under the terms of the plan.
When he retired, Mr Ns pension savings were valued at around £85,000. The GMP annuity 
that Aviva was required to pay was £8,757.84. In my experience, the value of Mr Ns pension 
savings would have provided an annual pension income of less than half what Aviva was 
required to pay had the GMP requirements not been in place. And, had annual escalation of 
3% been added to the pension amount, the pension annuity that could normally be bought 
with Mr Ns pension savings would have been even less.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to rely on the terms of the original agreement 
and only pay the GMP amount to Mr N, without any annual increments.
But that isnt the end of my deliberations on this complaint. I think it is reasonable that 
I should also consider whether the terms that Aviva is relying upon were sufficiently 
explained to Mr N. And if I were to find that the information hed been given by Aviva in 1988 
was insufficient, whether hed have acted any differently if hed received better information.
As I said earlier, Mr N appears to have been assisted by an independent financial advisor 
when he transferred his pension savings to Aviva in 1988. I dont know whether that 
assistance was simply in arranging the transfer, or if the advisor assessed whether the 
transfer would be financially advantageous for Mr N. But importantly I think the advisor would 
have provided a buffer between Mr N and Aviva, and so would have been responsible for 
ensuring that Mr N understood the terms of the agreement he was making. So I dont think 
that Aviva should be held responsible if Mr N had failed to understand that the clause 
restricting the annual increases in his pension formed a part of his policy.
So given what I have said, it isnt necessary to consider whether better information would 
have caused Mr N to act differently in 1988 when he made his transfer. But I dont think it 
would be unreasonable to note here that, as I said earlier, in 1988 the expectations of investment growth, and the annuities that could subsequently be purchased from a given 
level of pension savings, were significantly higher than today. I think it unlikely that Mr N 
would have been concerned about the clause on which Aviva has relied, even if it had been 
clearly brought to his attention by his financial advisor.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr N, given he appears to have 
anticipated for many years that his pension would increase each year once it had been put 
into payment. But I think Aviva has acted in line with the contract it agreed with Mr N in 1988. 
And I dont think that Aviva was responsible for the explanation of those terms to Mr N at that 
time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman