DRN-2555996
The complaint
Ms H complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc failed to help her when her PIN didnt work. 
  
What happened
Ms H holds a credit card with Sainsburys. Before she was due to travel abroad in May 2019, 
Mis H was having difficulties getting her PIN to work. She let Sainsburys know, but they said 
it should be fine once she got there. 
However when Ms H arrived at her destination, her PIN didnt work. This meant she wasnt 
able to pay for her accommodation, which she said caused her embarrassment and worry. 
Ms H said she told Sainsburys about the issue, explaining that she was a disabled customer 
in a foreign country, but that they didnt do anything to help.
 
Ms H has explained that shes been sent multiple cards and PIN numbers, but having tried to 
activate them, its never worked.
 
Shes also unhappy with how she has been treated by Sainsburys in relation to her 
disabilities. She has explained that she has a cognitive impairment, her memory can be 
affected at times and she is visually impaired. She also has a severe lung condition which 
makes speaking difficult and tiring. She feels Sainsburys doesnt do anything to help people 
with disabilities and is unhappy that they dont have a dedicated support team. 
Sainsburys said that Ms Hs PIN must have been input incorrectly too many times which is 
why it didnt work. They explained that Ms H never gave them her permission to record her 
disabilities meaning they were unable to assist her with them. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Sainsburys hadnt treated Ms H fairly. She 
explained that during a call, Ms H had said Sainsburys could record her disabilities. She 
also felt that they should have done more for Ms H when she called from overseas saying 
her PIN wasnt working. 
Because of this, our investigator felt Sainsburys should award Ms H £300 for the 
inconvenience caused while she was travelling, and for not recording her disabilities when 
she said they could, causing further distress. 
 
Since then, a further review of Ms Hs complaint has been carried out and the circumstances 
have changed somewhat.
 
Ms H has been able to use her card, and now has an outstanding balance that needs to be 
paid off. Given the change in Ms Hs circumstances, and after another review of the 
complaint as a whole, it was recommended that Sainsburys should offer Ms H £500 in 
compensation, which should be taken off the balance of the credit card. 
It was also recommended that they should send her a new card and PIN to replace the ones 
she currently has. 
Both parties have been made aware of the new recommendations, and the complaint is now 
ready for a final review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied the outcome reached is a fair one. I will explain 
why. 
Ms Hs trip abroad
When Ms H let Sainsburys know her PIN wasnt working, I feel they could have done more 
to help her, especially as she was due to travel abroad. Ms H has let us know that she 
needed a credit card to pay for her accommodation, as she would receive payment from her 
employer after she returned home. So when it didnt work, I think Sainsburys could have 
done more to assist her, by providing a cash advance for example, rather than say there was 
nothing they could do. 
Luckily Ms H was able to pay for her accommodation through other means, however I think 
given her circumstances, I think Sainsburys should have tried to help her. 
The issues with Ms Hs PIN
Ms H has been sent three cards and three PIN numbers. Sainsburys said the first PIN was 
blocked as the PIN was input incorrectly three times. With the latest card, they cant see that 
any attempts to try the PIN have been made. 
Ms H said she only received two PIN numbers and that she has tried to activate them in 
different areas, even with someone there to help her, but has always been unsuccessful. 
She also explained that while the first PIN didnt work when she tried to pay for her 
accommodation overseas, she was subsequently able to buy a coffee with the cards 
contactless feature. This leads me to think that if she had entered her PIN incorrectly too 
many times, she shouldnt have been able to purchase a coffee. So Im not persuaded that 
was the cause of the problems with the PIN. But Sainsburys hasnt been able to offer any 
other explanation.
Given this, I cant say for certain why Ms Hs PIN hasnt worked on the cards she has been 
sent. So I think that by Sainsburys sending Ms H a new card and new PIN, she will be able 
to, in effect, start again and try the PIN once again with a new card.
 
The service provided in relation to Ms Hs disabilities
When thinking about whether Sainsburys should have done more to help Ms H regarding 
her disabilities, I think they could have.
Sainsburys have explained that as Ms H didnt give them express permission to record her 
disabilities, they werent able to help her. However, during a call in May 2019, Ms H asked 
Sainsburys to assist her by making sure she didnt need to repeat herself unnecessarily. 
The agent explained that this would be recorded.
But during that same call, Ms H was asked by someone else why she had called. She then 
became very distressed and out of breath, as she had been told she wouldnt need to repeat 
herself. I appreciate some calls with Ms H can become unproductive, but I feel on this specific occasion, it could have been avoided if Sainsburys had done what they said they 
would do.
 
Sainsburys also have a record to send Ms Hs statements in large print. So it seems as 
though they have recorded some aspects of her disability and how they can help her.
Given this, Im satisfied Ms H did give Sainsburys permission to record her disabilities, and I 
dont think they did enough to help her. During the call I think the adviser could have spoken 
to the person Ms H had been speaking to before, to get a summary of why she was calling, 
and I think a note should have been placed on her record to explain what she would need in 
the future. 
  
Ms H has said Sainsburys should have a dedicated department for disabled customers. 
Sainsburys dont have this as they feel all members of staff should be able to assist any 
customer who has a disability. I think this is reasonable and it isnt for me to tell a business 
how to operate. 
As explained above, Ms Hs circumstances have changed since the complaint was first 
brought to our service. These have all been considered and we have been corresponding 
with Sainsburys and Ms H to reach a fair outcome.
 
Sainsburys have agreed to send Ms H a new card and PIN. They have also agreed to 
increase the compensation payment to £500 and have confirmed that this can be paid off the 
credit card balance. 
In relation to the outstanding balance on the card, Sainsburys have explained that Ms H is 
entitled to ask for a payment freeze. The information and deadline to do this have already 
been passed to Ms H.
 
Overall, I think this outcome is fair and so I wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
 
Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Ms H £500 in compensation and this should be taken off 
her credit card balance. They should also send Ms H a new card and PIN to replace the 
ones she currently has. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman