DRN-2309564
The complaint
Mr R complains that Stackhouse Poland Limited is responsible for mishandling his claim on
a motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint about one regulated
financial firm at a time.
Where it is a complaint about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint
against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with the claim. In our final
decision, we name that insurance company, but we dont name any other party.
Mr R had a car and - through an intermediary - he had a motor policy under which 
Stackhouse was responsible for dealing with claims.
Where I refer to Stackhouse or the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I
hold Stackhouse responsible for their actions.
Mr R renewed his policy for a year from 18 December 2019. He agreed to pay eleven
monthly instalments of £69.72 towards the yearly premium of about £750.00, plus interest.
The policy covered a claim up to the market value of the vehicle immediately before the loss
or damage  less the excess of £700.00.
Someone took Mr Rs car and he reported it stolen on 8 April 2019. Weeks later, police
traced the car. In mid- June 2019, the insurer said Mr Rs car had been worth £1,500.00 but
was a total loss. The insurer offered Mr R that figure less £700.00 for the policy excess (a
balance of £800.00).
In June and July 2019, Mr R complained that the insurer had kept his car and not provided a
courtesy car.
On 13 August 2019, the insurer offered Mr R an extra £150.00 in addition to the £800.00 for
his car.
Mr R first contacted us on 19 August 2019.
On 28 August 2019, the insurer offered Mr R an extra £250.00 in addition to the £800.00 for
his car.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that
the figure of £800.00 was reasonable. But she thought that the insurer was responsible for
delay. She changed her view of how to put things right.
Her changed view was that there had been delay beyond the date the claim was expected to
be completed. From that date to the date of the insurers settlement offer, she calculated that
Mr Rs travel expenses were £360.00. She said Mr R paid those expenses using a credit
card which had an interest rate of 2.84%.
Our investigator recommended that the insurer should pay Mr R:
1. £800.00 for the total loss settlement of £1,500.00 less the policy's £700.00 
excess; and
2. £360.00 plus 2.84% from the date of each travel expense payment to the date 
settlement is paid for the loss of use Mr R had suffered due to the delays; and
3. £150.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
In response to the investigators opinion, the insurer sent Mr R a cheque for £1,310.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Stackhouse on 30 September 2020. I summarise my findings:
The insurer was responsible for a delay in producing the report on 5 June 2019
and then delay in assessing the vehicle in mid-June 2019. The insurer didnt 
communicate with Mr R as well as it shouldve.
Those shortcomings caused Mr R extra distress and inconvenience at an already
difficult time for him. I wouldve found £300.00 fair and reasonable compensation for 
this.
However, the insurer agreed with the investigators recommendation and paid Mr R 
in line with it.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from Stackhouse, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt direct Stackhouse Poland Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Stackhouse hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Mr R disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, as follows:
He wants to know whether he had a right to cancel his claim.
He repeatedly asked to not claim anything if the car was found.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy Terms
The policy terms provided that Mr R could cancel the policy after the fourteen-day cooling-off
period. But if he had made a claim, there would be no refund and he would have to continue
paying the monthly instalments.
The policy terms in the event of theft or attempted theft included the following:If You use a repairer recommended by Us, You will be provided with a courtesy car whilst
Your Car is being repaired. This will be subject to availability and is NOT available if Your Car
is written off
So the policy didnt provide a courtesy car if Mr R didnt use a repairer recommended by the
insurer or if his car was written off.
The policy also had the following exclusions:
We will not pay for any of the following:
The Excess of any claim made under this part unless at the time of the loss or 
damage Your Car was in a locked garage which has been subjected to forcible 
and violent entry or exit;
Loss of use of Your Car.
Value of the Car
Ive noted the make, model, age and approximate mileage of Mr Rs car. It was a hatchback
over ten years old and with a mileage of over 150,000.
In deciding whether £1,500.00 was a fair figure for its pre-theft value, Ive placed particular
weight on the motor trade guides. Based on the figures in those guides, Im satisfied that
£1,500.00 was fair and reasonable.
Theft or Attempted Theft
Mr R reported a theft of his car from a street (not a locked garage).
I accept that Mr R was concerned about his NCD. But theres no doubt that he did make a
claim in April 2019. Otherwise he wouldve lost his car and received nothing for it.
The car was missing for about five weeks.
From the recording of a call on 14 May 2019, I find that the insurers investigator had already
interviewed Mr R. Police had recently traced the car and contacted Mr R to ask if he had a
key  which he didnt.
From the recording of a call on 17 May 2019, I find that Mr R and the insurer were still trying
to find out where the car was. I havent seen enough evidence to say that the insurer was
responsible for delay in finding that out from the police.
In the meantime, the car wasnt available for inspection or repair. And neither Mr R nor the
insurer knew what damage the car had sustained. So Mr R couldnt make an informed
decision about whether he wanted the car back. And the insurer wasnt able to collect the
car or return it to Mr R.
The policy terms didnt cover Mr R for a courtesy car or loss of use of his car. Therefore I
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to pay compensation for his travel
expenses during the period before the insurer collected it.
The investigators report was dated 5 June 2019. Ive seen that report, but I havent seen 
any statement signed by Mr R.
From the recording of a call on 6 June 2019, I find that the insurer had recovered the car andMr R wanted to know whether it was badly damaged. The insurer said it expected to receive
images of the car and to make a decision that afternoon.
From the recording of a call on 12 June 2019, I find that the insurer said it would send
images of the car to its engineer. Mr R lost his patience and the insurer terminated the call.
Ive seen an email from Mr R dated 12 June 2019 complaining that the insurer had kept his
car.
It mustve been within the next few days that the insurer told Mr R it had decided not to
repair his car but to write it off. It offered - and I find that Mr R accepted - £800.00. Mr Rs
email of 15 July 2019 included the following:
you offered some money that I accepted but you still did not send the money...
Send the car back to me I do not need yourmoney do you understand these 
robbers!!!!!!!!!!
Mr Rs email dated 12 August 2019 included the following:
the previous offer is no longer valid as you did not process the claim promptly on
time and I realised that the offer is not fair as I never asked to claim but you decided
to not give the car back to me without any claim.
So I find that Mr R had changed his mind about accepting £800.00 for the car. But Ive found
that hed accepted the offer of £800.00. And I consider that it was too late to change his
mind.
From the emails, I find that the insurer wouldve paid the £800.00 if Mr R had obtained a
duplicate V5.
In answer to Mr Rs question, I do not consider that he could change his mind and decide not 
to claim. I say that because the insurance company had already spent time and money in 
considering the claim, arranging an interview and collecting the car.
Financial Losses
Mr R had made a claim. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to refund
him for the monthly instalments he had to pay until the policy was due for renewal in
December 2019.
By a letter dated 26 November 2019, the intermediary invited Mr R to renew his policy  at a
premium of over £1,800.00. If Mr R wishes to complain about that, the Financial Conduct
Authority rules require that he first complains to the firm before we can deal with any such
complaint.
Mr R sent us information to show the costs he incurred on minicabs and buses from April
2019 to January 2020. This information includes copies of statements for the credit card he
used to pay those costs. From those statements I can see that the interest rate was 2.84%
per month.
But I havent found that Mr R was entitled to a courtesy car. And Ive found that in mid-June
2019, Mr R accepted the insurers offer of £800.00 for his car. So his lack of a car (and his 
alternative transport costs) were caused by the theft (and the £700.00 policy excess) rather 
than by any delay or other shortcomings for which the insurer was responsible.
Distress and InconvenienceHowever, I find the insurer responsible for a delay in producing the report on 5 June 2019
and then delay in assessing the vehicle in mid-June 2019. And  from the call recordings - I
find that the insurer didnt communicate with Mr R as well as it shouldve.
Putting things right
I find that those shortcomings caused Mr R extra distress and inconvenience at an already
difficult time for him. I wouldve found £300.00 fair and reasonable compensation for this.
However, the insurer agreed with the investigators recommendation and paid Mr R in line
with it. So I find it fair and reasonable not to direct the insurer to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont direct Stackhouse Poland
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman