DRN-3581283
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Mr B is represented by his wife Mrs B.
Where I refer to Advantage or the insurer, I refer to the above-named insurance company 
and I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for their 
acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a family car, first registered in about 
2014. For the year from October 2020, Mr B had the car insured on a comprehensive policy 
with Advantage.
Unfortunately, in July 2021, a third party damaged the car while it was parked. After his wife 
reported the incident to Advantage, it sent Mr B a text message. But Mr B didnt pursue the 
claim until September 2021. 
Advantages repairer took possession of Mr Bs car. Advantage provided a courtesy car, but 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with it.
Mr B complained to Advantage. By a final response dated 17 December 2021, Advantage 
summarised its understanding of the complaint in points numbered 1 to 18. It upheld and 
apologised for some points and said it was sending Mr B £200.00 compensation. Unhappy 
with that, Mr B brought his complaint to us in late December 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
£200.00 fairly put right the impact here.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mrs B says, in summary, that:
The courtesy car not only had a chipped screen but was filthy. 
Mr B has issues with mental health, so she took over.
The courtesy car was smaller than theirs and this impacted their holiday. They had to 
purchase another pushchair due to the change in boot size. She was waiting for a 
spinal operation and had to sit in a horrible uncomfortable car. Her eldest son was in 
tears after a 7-hour journey sitting sideways.
They had to keep insurance with a company that they have no faith or trust in as 
when they tried to move, their premium went through the roof as there was an open 
claim. 
The insurer didnt manage the claim or communicate properly. She had to chase for 
progress. She had to spend time on the phone when she shouldve been recovering 
from her operation.
There was two months delay at the garage, when Mr B couldve been using the car. 
She was lied to on numerous occasions. 
The work they said was completed on the car is inaccurate. The damage was 
minimal, but it came to £4K, about £2k of this was hire car, due to their delays. There 
was not £2k damage to the car, they could have replaced the door and resprayed the 
whole car for less than this. 
She is a complaints handler as a profession, and this has brought her to tears on 
many occasions. 
They are hundreds of pounds out of pocket.
A complaint handler made a sexist comment. 
£200.00 doesnt cover hardly any of the costs they incurred or the stress and hassle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). We deal with complaints by eligible consumers about regulated 
activities of regulated financial firms. 
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at the impact on the 
complainant. That may be financial loss. 
The impact may also be the complainants distress and inconvenience, including that 
suffered as a result of the impact on other family members. But we dont have the legal 
power to award compensation directly for distress and inconvenience suffered by a family 
member who isnt an eligible complainant such as a policyholder or named driver.
The effect of one of the DISP rules is that a consumer must first make a complaint to the 
financial firm and wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we can investigate 
that complaint. That means that we can usually investigate a complaint that a consumer has 
made before a final response. So my final decision deals with the complaint about issues 
(including delay) that Mr B made prior to the final response on 17 December 2021.
Vehicle damage and an insurance claim inevitably involve telephone calls, visits to a garage 
and other inconvenience. 
Where an insurer has made an outlay in response to a claim, it will usually treat the claim as 
an open claim (or as a fault claim against its policyholder) unless and until it recovers its 
outlay in full, typically from a third party. That will often take several months. In the 
meantime, the claim is likely to increase the amount of any quote for a renewal or 
replacement of the policy.From the policy documents, I see that Mr B was the policyholder. Mrs B wasnt a named 
driver. So she wasnt an eligible complainant in her own right.
Advantages policy terms included the following:
The replacement car will usually be a group A vehicle...
After Mr B made his claim in September 2021, Advantage provided a courtesy car from late 
September 2021. A hire company  rather than the repair garage  provided the courtesy 
car on behalf of Advantage. I dont hold Advantage responsible for not saying that the 
deposit payment had to be on a payment card.
The final response upheld and apologised for a complaint that the courtesy car was dirty, 
had a chipped windscreen and contained a sticky sweet. I consider that the courtesy car 
shouldve been kept in better condition and properly sanitised. I hold Advantage responsible 
that this caused Mr B some inconvenience and upset.
The courtesy car was smaller than Mr Bs car. It wasnt suitable for Mrs B with her spinal 
problem and three children. But the courtesy car was at least as large as a group A vehicle. 
So I dont hold Advantage responsible for the small size of the courtesy car  or for the 
consequences such as discomfort and the need to buy a smaller pushchair or buggy.
I keep in mind Mr Bs delay between July and September 2021 and the need to get a 
response from the third party. So I dont find it unreasonable that the claim was still open at 
the renewal date in October  or at the time of the final response in mid-December 2021. 
From what Mrs B and Advantage have each said, Mr B renewed with Advantage. Its final 
response said that his premium went down. Mrs B hasnt shown that it went up. From what 
she has said, other insurers quoted more because of the open claim.
In my view it was ultimately Mr Bs decision to stay with Advantage. Whilst I understand that 
he would be reluctant to go through another claim, Advantage continued to insure him, 
including against claims from third parties. So I dont consider that Advantage treated Mr B 
unfairly by keeping him as a policyholder.
Advantage received an estimate of the cost of repair. Advantage didnt authorise repairs until 
late October 2021. So there was a delay. And that extended the period for which Mr B had 
the courtesy car. With hindsight, Mr B couldve been driving his own (damaged) car for part 
of October 2021. But I dont find it unreasonable that Advantage or its repairer kept the 
damaged car while awaiting repair.
The garage completed repairs between late October and 19 November 2021. So I dont 
accept that all of the period of about two months at the garage was delay. 
Mr B had to take the courtesy car back to the hire company and to collect his car from the 
garage. But I consider that this was part of the inconvenience to be expected.
The cost of repair was in line with the estimate. Mr and Mrs B havent provided enough detail 
or evidence to support the complaint that the repair cost too much. 
The period of hire and its cost was greater than it wouldve been without the delay in 
authorising repairs. But the outlay was met by Advantage, subject to recovery from the third 
party. I havent seen enough evidence to show that Mr B will suffer any financial 
disadvantage from the amount of the claim against the third party.Mr and Mrs B havent provided enough evidence to show that they are hundreds of pounds 
out of pocket  or that this has been caused by an unfair act or omission of Advantage.
From the call recording and the final response, I note a complaint that the complaint-handler 
made a sexist comment. The final response contained an apology for any offence caused. In 
my view that was enough to put right the complaints-handlers ill-judged comment about his 
experience of married life.
Mr and Mrs B havent given enough detail to show that Advantage lied to them. 
Generally, Advantage was responsible for poor communication. That included poor 
communication about the claim against the third party. 
The poor communication resulted in a need to chase for updates. That proved too much for 
Mr B with his health issues and family and work commitments. Mrs B bore the brunt of the 
impact despite health issues and commitments of her own. But I can only assess 
compensation by reference to Mr Bs distress and inconvenience including his concern for 
the impact on her.
Advantages final response was detailed and contained some apologies. It also said that it 
was sending £200.00. So Ive thought about whether that was fair and reasonable in line 
with our published approach to distress and inconvenience  or whether I wouldve awarded 
more if Advantage hadnt made that payment. 
I keep in mind the condition of the courtesy car and the delay and poor communication (for 
the period before the final response dated 17 December 2021) and the impact on Mr B. I 
also keep in mind that Advantage provided a hire car and a detailed final response. Overall, 
Im satisfied that £200.00 was fair and reasonable. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Advantage to pay any more or to take any further steps in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman