DRN-2543788
The complaint
Mr P complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited has unfairly cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P took out car insurance with Advantage in early October 2016. On his schedule of 
insurance, Mr Ps occupation was listed as unemployed. His certificate of motor insurance 
said his cover was limited to use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes only.
At the beginning of November 2016, Mr P called Advantage to change the date of his 
monthly insurance direct debit to fit in with his pay day, because he had a new job. 
Advantages call handler said he needed to update Mr Ps occupation details first. Mr P said 
he was starting work as a self-employed courier driver. 
Advantage sent Mr P revised insurance documents showing his occupation as Delivery 
courier. The limitation on use of his car stayed as social, domestic and pleasure purposes 
only.
In May 2017, when Mr P was using his car for deliveries, he was involved in a road traffic 
collision. Mr P notified Advantage of his claim. But Advantage declined it and cancelled      
Mr Ps policy. It said this was because Mr P was using his car outside the terms of his policy, 
which limited his use to social, domestic and pleasure purposes.
Mr P says he told Advantage of his career change but wasnt told his policy wouldnt cover 
him for business use. And Mr P is unhappy hes now paying higher insurance premiums than 
previously because of the cancellation.
Advantage didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint and so he brought it to us. The investigator who 
looked at it upheld it. In brief, his view was that Mr P would reasonably have expected to be 
covered on his car insurance for the purposes of his new occupation following his call to 
Advantage in November 2016. 
Advantage disagrees and so Mr Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I dont think Advantage acted fairly 
and reasonably in declining Mr Ps claim and cancelling his policy.
My starting point is Mr Ps car insurance policy. Mr Ps insurance certificate said his 
insurance was limited to cover when he was using his car for social, domestic or pleasure 
purposes only. This is the level of cover Mr P wouldve chosen when he took the policy out, 
when he was unemployed.
Mr Ps policy terms said, under a heading Keeping your policy up to date, he should tell 
Advantage immediately if he changed his occupation. And it said Mr P should tell Advantage 
beforehand if he intended to change what he used his car for. 
Mr Ps policy also said Advantage could cancel it if Mr P didnt keep to its terms in a 
significant way.
From screenshots it has sent us, in late October 2016, Mr P contacted Advantage through its 
webchat. Advantage says it no longer has a transcript of the chat. But its records say: ph 
[that is, Mr P] called for business use quote, ph will call back to amend employment details 
once employed. New occupation, self-employed courier.
Then, in early November 2016, Mr P contacted Advantage again, this time by phone. Ive 
listened to the call. While its clear Mr P is calling to change the date of his direct debit, 
Advantages call handler says he needs to update its systems with details of Mr Ps new 
occupation. Mr P gives this as being a self-employed courier delivery driver. The call handler 
makes this change. He doesnt ask Mr P any questions about how hell be using his car 
going forward. He advises Mr P to call back in a few days to change his direct debit.
From Advantages records, its clear Mr P asked it for a quote for business use when he 
contacted it through webchat in late October. And he also said then that his new occupation 
was self-employed courier. With no transcript, I have no other details of that conversation. 
And I dont know if its contents wouldve been available to the call handler Mr P spoke to in 
early November. 
But, even without this record, Mr P says in the November call hes going to be working as a 
courier driver. And he says hes going to be self-employed. If hes self-employed and a 
courier driver, it shouldve been reasonably clear to Advantage Mr P could be using his car 
for his work. I think Mr P gave Advantage enough clear information for its call handler to be 
alerted to the likelihood of a significant change in Mr Ps use of his car. But the call handler 
didnt respond to this information and, indeed, made no comment about it at all. This isnt 
what I wouldve expected Advantage to do in these circumstances.
Like our investigator, I think Mr P would reasonably have expected to be covered on his car 
insurance with Advantage for the purposes of his new occupation following his call, and his 
subsequent receipt of amended documents with his new occupation listed. I accept those 
documents include the schedule, which didnt change from social, domestic and pleasure 
use only. But, because of the call, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Advantage to rely 
on the schedule to say it made the limitation on the use of his car clear to Mr P.
I think it will have been distressing and inconvenient for Mr P to have had his claim turned 
down and his policy cancelled by Advantage for the reasons it did. And hes had the 
inconvenience of having to disclose the policy cancellation for the last three years or so 
when getting new car insurance. In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for 
Advantage to pay Mr P £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused 
him.
Putting things right
I direct Advantage to put things right as I set out below.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put Mr P back in the position he wouldve been in but for the declined 
claim and the cancellation of his car insurance policy. So Advantage must:
Reconsider Mr Ps claim (without its limitations for social, domestic and pleasure use) 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his car insurance policy. On 
payment of the claim Advantage must pay Mr P interest* from the date of his claim 
until Advantage makes the payment.
Refund Mr P any cancellation fees it has charged him, together with interest* on this 
amount from the date Mr P paid it to the date of settlement.
Compensate Mr P for any higher car insurance premiums hes paid subsequently 
because of the policy cancellation.* Mr P must give Advantage copies of his 
certificates and schedules of motor insurance from after May 2017 so Advantage can 
calculate this redress. 
Provide Mr P with written confirmation its policy cancellation in May 2017 was made 
in error.
Remove any record of the cancellation from all internal and external databases.
Pay Mr P £150 P for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused him.
*Advantage should pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum. If Advantage thinks its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell 
Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman