DRN-3970968
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) declined his claim and 
avoided his policy.
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with Advantage which he applied for via a price 
comparison website. In February 2022 his car was stolen, so he made a claim. 
As part of their investigation, Advantage reviewed the sales invoice for Mr Gs car and a list 
of modifications he forwarded to them from the specialist dealership he purchased his car 
from. Ill refer to this dealership as O throughout. The modifications list included alloy 
wheels, a carbon fibre body styling kit, front grille, carpet matts and lettering set.
Advantage then asked Mr G to explain the reasons the modifications werent disclosed when 
he applied for the policy. His wife responded on his behalf and said Mr G was aware of the 
modifications, but she didnt think he was asked to disclose them.
Advantage then said Mr G had answered the question he was asked about modifications 
incorrectly when he applied for the policy, as none were disclosed. And they considered this 
to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation which entitled them to refuse all claims and 
avoid the policy. They also refunded the policy premium and apologised for providing some 
poor customer service while considering the claim.
Mr G then said he didnt disclose the modifications as he purchased the car in its modified 
condition, and it was sold as seen. He also felt Advantage should reasonably have known all 
the details for his car, as he entered the correct registration number on the price comparison 
website, and this showed it was a Land Rover Sports.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He agreed Mr G had made a 
qualifying careless misrepresentation and said Advantage had acted fairly in response. In 
reaching this conclusion, he relied on the sales invoice which said the car had been sold by 
O. 
Mr G then asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving any reasons. I then requested 
that the investigator ask him some additional questions about the sales process for the 
policy and the car.
In response, Mr G said he answered no to the question Has the car been modified in any 
way as he thought this only related to changes made to the engine. And he didnt recall 
clicking on the help icon. He was aware his car had a body styling kit fitted and this made it 
different to a standard model, but he didnt think this was a significant change or needed to 
be disclosed as a modification. He also thought the other modifications came as standard 
with the car until Advantage told him otherwise.
Before purchasing the car, he visited his local O showroom and he accessed the companys 
website. The car was sold to him personally by the sales manager and he was attracted to it 
because despite it being a second-hand car it was practically new.
Having received the additional information I requested, Ive now completed my review of the 
complaint and reached a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he applied for the policy online and answered a question about modifications to his car. 
They've therefore provided a copy of the relevant question and as mentioned above, I can 
see that he was asked: 
Has the car been modified in any way?
Next to the question was an  Need help icon which provided more information. This said:
If you or a previous owner has made a change from the manufacturers original 
specification, such as alloy wheels, air conditioning, bodywork, exhaust system, 
suspension or tinted windows, add it here. If you are unsure if your cars been 
modified check its previous history to find out.
If Mr G had answered yes to the above question, he would then have been asked to select 
the specific modifications to his car from a drop down menu.
Mr G has said Advantage should have known the correct details for his car based on the 
registration number he entered on the price comparison website. However, I wouldnt expect 
an insurer to identify car modifications in this way. It was also reasonable for Advantage to 
rely on the information Mr G provided in response to the specific modifications question he 
was asked. And there is no dispute that his car was a Land Rover Sports.
As Mr Gs car had several modifications, Im satisfied the above question wasnt answered 
accurately. Ive therefore thought carefully about Mr Gs explanation for answering it in the 
way that he did. Mr G was asked if his car had been modified in any way which is a clear 
and specific question. Im also satisfied a reasonable consumer wouldnt interpret it to mean 
they only needed to disclose modifications to their cars engine. Mr G has said that except for the body styling kit, he wasnt aware of the modifications to his 
car. However, as he purchased it directly from an O showroom, I find it unlikely the sales 
manager wouldnt have provided this information as part of the sale. This is because all the 
modifications were visible, the car was almost new, and the modifications were carried out 
by O. I also note that as part of their branding, O describe themselves as a leading creator of 
bespoke cars. So, while I appreciate Mr G has said the car was sold as seen, I find it unlikely 
he wasnt aware of the significance of purchasing his car from O or the modifications they 
made to it.
In any event, as Mr G has indicated that he knew his car had a body styling kit, Im satisfied 
he should reasonably have disclosed it as a modification. And if he was unsure, he could 
have clicked on the help icon or checked with O before he proceeded with the application. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied Mr G didnt take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he applied for the policy and answered the above question. 
I also note that after Mr G purchased the policy, he was sent a statement of fact which asked 
him to check all the information he provided was correct. This document said he hadnt 
disclosed any modifications and A modification's any alteration to your car from the 
manufacturer's standard specification. This was therefore an additional opportunity for Mr G 
to reconsider his answer and disclose the correct information about his car.
Advantage have provided their underwriting criteria which shows what they would have done 
if Mr G had disclosed the modifications. This shows they wouldnt have offered him a policy. 
So, Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Under CIDRA, a misrepresentation can be deliberate or reckless, or careless. Advantage 
have said Mr Gs misrepresentation was careless. As this offers the most favourable 
outcome for Mr G ( compared to it being categorised as deliberate or reckless) I see no 
reason to interfere with this decision.
As Im satisfied Mr Gs qualifying misrepresentation was careless, Ive looked at the actions 
Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA. These include avoiding the policy and 
refusing all claims. However, they must also refund the policy premium. As this reflects 
Advantages actions here, Im satisfied they have treated Mr G fairly.
Lastly, I appreciate Mr G feels Advantage should have considered his claim faster, but every 
insurer is entitled to validate a claim and the relevant information about his cars 
modifications only came to light at a late stage. Advantage have also acknowledged 
providing some poor customer service in their final response and I think that was fair.
So, while I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr G, and the loss of 
his car had a significant financial impact, I see no grounds for directing Advantage to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman