DRN-3405559
The complaint
Mr P complains about his insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead). His complaint is 
about Fairmeads decision to resurface only the part of his drive dug up to investigate and fix 
a leak (not to resurface the whole drive).
Fairmead use agents to administer the policy. Reference to Fairmead includes these agents.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr P noticed a damp patch coming up through the tarmac of the front drive at 
his property. Mr P contacted a builder he knew, who dug up the affected piece of tarmac and 
diagnosed a leaking water pipe. Mr P contacted Fairmead to make a claim under his home 
insurance policy. Fairmead accepted the claim and agreed to pay Mr P a cash settlement of 
£944 (£1,034 cost of repair less £100 policy excess) towards the cost of repair to the water 
pipe. Mr P accepted the offer.
Fairmead also offered to resurface the part of the drive that had been dug up. However, Mr 
P wasnt happy with this offer because it would have meant the resurfaced area wouldnt 
match the remainder of the drive. Instead, Mr P paid £2,000 for the whole drive to be 
resurfaced and asked Fairmead to cover the cost. Fairmead refused to do so, restating their 
offer to pay only for resurfacing of the area dug up.
Unhappy at Fairmeads position, Mr P complained. They didnt uphold the complaint. In their 
final response they referred to policy terms and conditions that stated in the event of loss or 
damage to parts of buildings which form part of a common design, they would only pay for 
the replacement or repair of the lost or damaged item only. Applying this to Mr Ps drive, 
Fairmead concluded their decision to only offer to pay for resurfacing of the dug-up part of 
the drive was correct.
Mr P then complained to this service. The main issue was that Fairmead should have 
covered the resurfacing of the whole drive, as this would have returned him to the position 
he was in before the incident.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part, concluding Fairmead had acted fairly in 
applying the policy terms and conditions to decide they would only cover the cost of 
resurfacing the dug-up part of the drive. While Mr P had paid for the whole drive to be 
resurfaced, the investigator thought Fairmead should pay him the estimated cost of 
resurfacing the dug-up part of the drive. 
Both Mr P and Fairmead disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. Mr P maintained that Fairmead should pay for the cost of 
the whole drive to be resurfaced. Fairmead said their cash settlement included an element 
for resurfacing of the dug-up part of the drive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Fairmead has acted fairly towards Mr P.
The key issue in Mr Ps complaint is that Fairmead should have covered the cost of 
resurfacing the whole drive, not just the part that was dug up. He argues only covering the 
dug up part would mean it wouldnt match the remainder of the drive and as such, it wouldnt 
have returned him to the position he was before the leak (that is, having a drive of a single, 
consistent appearance). For their part, Fairmead say the policy terms and conditions mean 
they only have to cover the cost of the damaged area of the drive (the part that was dug up).
 
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence provided by 
both Mr P and Fairmead. On balance, Im persuaded by Fairmeads view. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr P, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
The key point made by Fairmead in support of their position is the policy terms and 
conditions. Specifically, under Section 1:Buildings theres a question What happens to 
matching pairs, sets, suites and flooring? which goes on to state:
In the event of damage to parts of buildings which form part of a set of common 
design we will pay for the replacement or repairs of the lost or damaged item only, 
unless part of a pair.
While this doesnt specifically refer to the approach where part of a drive is dug up, I think 
the intent of the policy is clear  to only cover the repair to the damaged part of the drive. It 
wouldnt cover the resurfacing of the whole drive. So, Im persuaded by Fairmeads view.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about not being put back in the position he was in before 
the leak and part of his drive was dug up. But I dont agree. If Fairmead paid for resurfacing 
the whole drive, it would be putting Mr P in a better position than before the incident (a 
concept known as betterment). Thats because he would have a whole new drive, rather 
than one I understand was fifteen years old. And resurfacing the part of the drive dug up 
would still mean Mr P had a complete drive, which is what he had before. I can understand 
his wanting a drive that (for aesthetic purposes) would be of a consistent appearance  but 
thats not what Fairmead are obliged to do under the terms of the policy.
While Ive concluded Fairmead acted fairly in not agreeing to cover the cost of resurfacing 
the whole drive, Ive considered their response to our investigators view that their cash 
settlement offer included an element for resurfacing the dug-up part of the drive. Therefore, 
they consider they dont have any further payments to make in respect of Mr Ps claim.
 
As Fairmead havent responded to our request for a breakdown of their cash settlement offer 
(to support their view it included the resurfacing of the dug-up part of the drive) Ive looked at 
the other evidence available, including Fairmeads case notes and their final response. The 
case notes state that the gross cash settlement figure of £1,043 is just for the repair. This 
doesnt explicitly mention resurfacing of the tarmac, so it could be taken to mean simply 
repair of the pipe that caused the leak. Other references in the case notes indicate that 
repair is to the pipe (rather than its replacement, which was a possibility before a repair was 
decided on to fix the leak). Similarly, Fairmeads final response refers to a partial repair of 
the leaking pipe and that they offered a patch repair of the dug-up tarmac. 
In the absence of a detailed breakdown of Fairmeads cash settlement offer, then on the 
other evidence set out above, Ive concluded Fairmeads offer doesnt clearly cover the 
resurfacing of the dug-up tarmac. Together with my conclusion that they acted fairly in 
offering to resurface only the dug-up part of the drive, Ive concluded they should pay Mr P the estimated cost of resurfacing the dug-up section of drive. This should be based on the 
rates they would have paid their own contractors to carry out the work. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr P the estimated cost of resurfacing the dug-up section of drive. This 
should be based on the rates they would have paid their own contractors to carry 
out the work. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman