DRN-2547598
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in March 2013. She had previously held an 
URCA on two occasions prior to this under a different account number. Mrs G has said that 
she is only complaining about the URCA taken out in March 2013.
Mrs G paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mrs G 
says that she was told that she had to take out this account in order to get a larger overdraft 
facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mrs Gs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold. Mrs G did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
 
I should at this point clarify that I am only looking into the sale of the account that was sold in 
March 2013. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mrs Gs complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mrs G, but after giving this case a lot of thought, 
I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome that she was 
hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mrs G was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not that 
she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee-free bank account with Halifax for 
many years. So I think that Mrs G wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were 
an option for her. 
It also seems that the sale in 2013 was as a result of Mrs G taking out a new bank account, 
as her old account - which was an URCA - had an issue with fraud. The new account was 
opened as a fee-free account in branch with a £300 overdraft. The notes from the time 
suggest that an appointment was made for Mrs G to come back into branch to discuss the 
URCA account upgrade, which seems to have happened around two weeks later. I think that 
if Mrs G did not want the URCA then she would not have come back for this appointment, 
especially as she already had an arranged overdraft of £300 already set up on her account.
I note that Mrs G has explained that she took out the account in order to increase her 
overdraft facility. But I cant see that her overdraft changed at the time of this sale. So I dont 
think that its likely that Mrs G was told that this was the only way to increase her overdraft. 
I also see that Mrs G had an overdraft on a fee-free account previously. So she wouldve 
known that she could have an overdraft on a fee-free account. Overall, I think that it is more 
likely that Mrs G was told that by upgrading her account she would be able to get a fee-free 
overdraft up to £300. 
To explain further, one of the benefits of the URCA was an interest and fee-free planned 
overdraft of up to £300. This means that if a consumer stayed within their overdraft limit and 
stayed below £300 overdraft limit, they wouldnt have to pay the daily £1 overdraft usage fee. 
The monthly fee for the URCA was £12.50 at the time. So as long as Mrs G used her 
overdraft within the £300 fee-free portion for 13 days or more each month, she was 
financially better off by having the URCA.  I can see that Mrs G went on to use this benefit 
after the sale quite frequently.
At the time the account was taken out, the other major benefits that it came with included 
worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone 
insurance. At the time of the sale Mrs G ticked a checklist and signed to say she had a need 
for travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. 
I can also see she used her overdraft, so couldve benefited from the £300 fee free portion of 
that as well.
 
So overall, I think that Mrs G was given a fair choice to take out the account and she chose 
to do so as she was potentially attracted to the overall packaged of benefits that it came 
with.
This account was not recommended to Mrs G. This means that Halifax did not need to 
ensure that the benefits were suitable for Mrs G. But it did need to provide Mrs G with 
enough information to decide this for herself. 
I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came with as 
it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mrs G. This is supported by the 
checklist which set out the major benefits that Mrs G ticked and signed  indicating that 
these were discussed with her before agreeing to the account.
I accept that Mrs G may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything about her circumstances at the time that makes 
me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given more 
information about it. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mrs G. I 
therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mrs G the account fees 
that shes been charged whilst shes held the URCA. I completely understand that this will be 
frustrating to Mrs G as she strongly feels that her account was mis-sold. I also understand 
that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA may not have represented good value for money 
to her. But I cant uphold her complaint due to this: I can only uphold the complaint about the 
sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it 
was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman