DRN-3218999
The complaint
Mr B complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
He says that Barclays sent a notification regarding his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) via text message rather than by email. The text was sent to an old telephone number 
that was no longer in use.
Mr B says that not receiving this text caused him to lose out on the chance to purchase units 
in a holding at a discount and that he has lost out financially as a result. 
What happened
Mr B was a customer of Barclays Stockbrokers Ltd (BSL). In June 2017 Barclays informed 
Mr B that its service was changing to Barclays Smart Investor (BSI). Mr B was to receive 
new log in details, and notice was provided of that the changeover was due to happen in 
August 2017. In September 2017, Mr B was sent another letter confirming the switch to BSL.
In February 2021, Mr B contacted Barclays as he had heard in the news about a Corporate 
Action with applying to one of his investments  but he hadnt been notified of this Action by 
Barclays. Barclays told Mr B that a text message regarding the Action had been sent on 2 
February 2021, with a response date of 11 February 2021.
Mr B then raised a formal complaint saying that as he had not been notified, he had missed 
out on an opportunity that he wouldve taken advantage of.
Barclays didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the text was sent to the number it held on 
file for Mr B  and it was his responsibility to ensure that his contact details and contact 
preferences were up to date. Mr B then brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint  but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr B 
disagreed with this, and as the Investigator was not persuaded to alter their opinion, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that this complaint should succeed. I know that this will 
be disappointing for Mr B, so Ill explain why.
As set out above, Mr B had been a long-term customer of BSL. Historically, Mr B had been 
notified by email about any Corporate Actions. In 2017, Barclays told him that it was 
changing its service to BSI and what action he needed to take.
Barclays has provided excerpts from the notification which outline the obligations of the 
customer. This includes a reminder to check that his contact details, income preferences and 
nominated bank account were correct  and instructions of how to update them on when first 
logging on to the online portal, called my hub.
Barclays has also confirmed that when Mr B first logged into my hub he wouldve been 
presented with a pop up  this wouldve asked him to ensure he checked and confirmed that 
his contact preferences were correct. It also said that if no changes were made, then his 
contact preferences would be carried over from the agreement with BSL.
Barclays can only provide 15 months worth of contact notes  so it cant be certain when the 
option to be contacted by phone for notifications was applied. But it seems that if Mr Bs 
preference had previously been set as email, then this wouldve continued unless this had 
been changed  most likely when Mr B first logged into the new BSI system, although I 
accept he may not remember this. In any event, Mr B was prompted to check his contact 
details and preferences were correct  so it was his responsibility to do so and make any 
changes as he saw fit. Had Mr B updated his phone number, Im satisfied he wouldve 
received the Corporate Action notification.
Mr B has said that Barclays already had his new phone number recorded on his account . I 
understand that Mr B has received phone calls from Barclays on his correct number  but its 
not unusual for a business to make a call back using a provided number which may be 
different to the one held on file. And while I dont dispute that Barclays did have his correct 
email on file and used this to tell him there were documents relating to charges or changes 
to his account, this is because Barclays was obligated to do so. And crucially this is different 
to notifying a customer of Corporate Action alerts as per their desired preference.
I also understand that Mr B feels that Barclays processes and client data management are 
not effective and should be changed  but this isnt something that this Service can consider 
as only the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, would be able to instruct a business to 
implement this kind of change. This Service can only direct a business to put things right 
when we are satisfied that a mistake has been made  and in this instance I am not 
persuaded that Barclays has done anything wrong here that it needs to put right.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman