DRN-3958199
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank PLC systems and service when he changed the address 
for his account.
What happened
Mr M wrote to Lloyds on 31 March 2022 asking them to change the address showing on his 
account from 5 April 2022. However, Lloyds didnt action this request and instead wrote back 
to Mr M requesting he completes verification checks. 
Mr M sent further request letters to Lloyds in April and May 2022, saying he didnt want 
statements going to the old address held on their records. 
Mr M was upset about receiving re-directed statements, but Lloyds said they hadnt been 
provided with sufficient information to verify Mr M.
Mr M complained to Lloyds and although they couldnt see there had been a data breach or 
that theyd done anything wrong, they acknowledged his frustrating experience and credited 
his account with £40.
Mr M complained to our service and said he wants Lloyds to review its systems for dealing 
with issues like this. However, our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.
As Mr M remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, Im not upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain why.
As Mr M would like Lloyds to review how it deals with change of address requests, I should 
first point out this service cant instruct a business to alter its procedures, processes or 
systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services industry, and our 
role is to consider each individual case. And, where we think a business hasnt acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to put right 
any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
Also, its not the role of our service to tell a business how to manage and learn from 
complaints or determine if theres been a breach of the relevant privacy laws as thats for the 
Information Commissioners Office.
Whilst I understand Mr Ms frustration at Lloyds verification criteria and view that seven items 
are excessive, as mentioned above I cant tell Lloyds to make any changes. Also, banks 
systems and checks are there to protect customers and to reduce fraud so, whilst Mr Ms 
experience is unfortunate, I can see the importance of Lloyds being diligent when changing 
an address. Also, its something that can happen under the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Regarding Lloyds terms and conditions, I could see that they say:
You must tell us if your name or contact details change by calling us, visiting a branch or 
going online. Otherwise, we will continue using the details you last gave us. We are not 
responsible if we cannot contact you or if we send confidential information to the wrong 
address using those details. We may ask you to provide proof of some changes and if we 
do, you must provide this promptly, and if you dont, we may stop you making transactions or 
close your account.
So, from reviewing Lloyds submissions, Im satisfied their actions were in accordance with 
the terms and conditions they set out. Also, they sent Mr M forms to complete to ensure they 
received all the required verification information, and I cant see that these were returned. 
Although Mr M provided partial information and didnt feel able to visit a branch, I think 
Lloyds acted reasonably in providing options and methods for Mr M to satisfy a verification 
process which they consider to be important for security reasons. 
So, considering the above Im not asking Lloyds to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman