DRN-3029187
complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
with a loan in 2000. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Mr Ss circumstances at the sale, as well as the PPI benefits, limitations and exclusions of 
cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mr S has told us he 
was employed as a manager, had been there around 10 years, was entitled to less than 
three months full sick pay and had some other accident and sickness cover. The loan Mr S 
took the PPI policy out with was repaid in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Ss representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr S says the PPI was just included with his loan. I give his recollections some weight, 
but I also bear in mind he set these out for us more than 15 years after the sale - so it 
wouldnt be surprising if he didnt recall every detail. With this in mind, what he recalls 
isnt enough on its own to make me think Lloyds just included the PPI on his loan. Also, 
the sample loan agreement Lloyds has sent us, which Im satisfied is representative of 
the agreement Mr S signed, presents the PPI as optional and makes me think it likely 
Lloyds made Mr S aware at the meeting that he had a choice about taking the cover  
and added it to his agreement only after he said yes to it. 
So, taking all this into account, I think its more likely Lloyds made it clear Mr S didnt 
have to take the PPI, and added the cover to his loan only because he chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check it was right for him. And the 
evidence about Mr Ss circumstances at the time shows it wasnt unsuitable for him. For 
example, he was eligible it and what hes told us about his existing cover and sick pay 
makes me think he still had a need for cover. Also, Mr S has said he was in a high risk 
occupation that wouldve made it unlikely he could claim  but the policy had no such 
provision and nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult 
for him to claim. Based on everything hes told us, Ive also nothing to make me think 
that when he took the loan Mr S thought it likely hed repay it early  so I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable by virtue of the terms that applied to refunds for early repayment.
Mr S has told us about a health issue he first had around seven years before the sale for 
which hes told us he took painkillers when required over the years. There were no extra 
restrictions on cover for back or mental health issues, but Mr S couldnt have claimed for 
time off work if related to a known health issue - so he couldnt have claimed if hed been 
kept off work by his ongoing issue. But having taken into account all hes told us about it, 
including that the only time off hes had for it over the years was the odd day, I dont think 
Lloyds ought to have thought Mr S was at much risk of this keeping him off work in future 
for longer periods exceeding two weeks or more. So, bearing in mind what he couldve 
still claimed for, I dont think this exclusion made it wrong for Lloyds to recommend Mr S 
the cover  and I dont think the policy was unsuitable for him overall. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and I dont think he wouldve taken it 
without a broad understanding of what it covered, so it looks to me like he wanted this 
type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for him, as I concluded above, and it seems like its 
benefit wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong in the circumstances it 
covered. It also looks like it was affordable. Bearing in mind all Ive said above, I dont 
think the cover was too dissimilar overall to what its likely Mr S thought he was buying 
from the information its likely he was given. So, with this and all Ive said above in mind, 
I dont think Mr S wouldve declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr S wouldve still taken the PPI. I think it couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time of the sale. I also think it was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I 
think he wouldve taken it in any event.
Mr Ss representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ss particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mr S for his courtesy and prompt assistance throughout and for all the further 
points he has provided. I confirm that in reaching my decision Ive considered all hes told us.my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman