DRN-4014633
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as K, is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc terminated 
its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) agreement.
Ks complaint is brought to this service by one of its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr C.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr C successfully applied to HSBC for a £40,000 BBL on Ks behalf. In 
July 2022, K was advised by HSBC that they were terminating Ks BBL agreement, and that 
K was now required to repay in full the balance of the BBL that remained outstanding. 
Around this time, HSBC also advised K that they were no longer willing to provide banking 
services to K and that they were closing Ks accounts. Mr C wasnt happy about this, and so 
he raised a complaint on Ks behalf. HSBC looked at Ks complaint but reiterated their 
position and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he 
referred Ks complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at Ks complaint. But they didnt feel K had been eligible to 
receive the BBL it had applied for, and so didnt feel HSBC had acted unfairly in how theyd 
managed the situation. Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the BBL scheme, an applicant had to have been carrying on business 
prior to 1 March 2020 and could borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover  up to a 
maximum amount of £50,000  for which the 2019 calendar years turnover was to be used. 
If the applicant had only been established after 1 January 2019, then the applicant could 
provide an estimate of projected annual turnover, from the date it started business.
Because of the unique circumstances surrounding the emergence of Covid-19 that led to the 
creation of the BBL scheme, it was anticipated that there would be a large influx of BBL 
applications. So, to enable lenders to process BBL applications quickly, the British Business 
Bank  which administered the BBL scheme  made it the responsibility of the applicant to 
self-declare they met the eligibility criteria of the scheme and were entitled to receive a BBL. 
This meant that lenders, such as HSBC, werent expected to verify or check whether the 
eligibility information provided by the applicant was correct. Instead, it was the responsibility 
of the applicant to have understood the eligibility criteria of the scheme and to have 
submitted accurate eligibility information in any BBL application.
But while lenders werent expected to check eligibility criteria at the point of application, they 
were expected to keep matters under review. And it was following a later review of Ks 
application that HSBC concluded that K hadnt in fact been eligible to receive the BBL that 
Mr C had self-declared that K had been eligible to receive. The question therefore becomes 
whether K were eligible to receive the BBL that it did.
On Ks BBL application, Mr C declared that K had annual turnover of £160,000. Mr C has 
explained that this was an estimate of Ks turnover. But because K was established and 
incorporated before 1 January 2019, it wasnt the case that Mr C was able to use an 
estimated turnover for K here. Instead, Ks actual turnover for the 2019 calendar year should 
have been used. And I think the BBL application form was sufficiently clear in this regard. 
Mr C has explained that he used estimated turnover because, while K was established 
before 1 January 2019, it was dormant and non-trading for some time after it was 
incorporated. This is confirmed by the Ks accounts filing history, which shows that dormant 
accounts were filed for several years. And importantly, even in consideration of a recent 
accounts amendment made by Mr C, the period of dormancy confirmed by Ks filed accounts 
includes that K was dormant up to and beyond 1 March 2020.
This means that K didnt meet the eligibility criteria for the BBL scheme, both because it 
hadnt been carrying on business before 1 March 2020 and because it didnt have any actual 
turnover for the 2019 calendar year. And because of this, Im satisfied that HSBC havent 
acted unfairly by terminating Ks BBL agreement as they have. 
Mr C has said that he spoke with HSBC and informed them of Ks position before applying 
for a BBL, and that HSBC told him to use an estimated turnover amount on Ks application. 
HSBC dont agree with Mr Cs position and dont have any record of any such conversation. 
But regardless of whether such a conversation did or didnt take place, any information that 
Mr C may have received from HSBC wouldnt absolve him of his responsibility  as the 
applicant  to have understood the eligibility criteria for the BBL scheme and to have 
provided accurate information on the application. And to that end I note that section 5 of the 
BBL application which Mr C submitted for K includes several declarations, the first being a 
confirmation that the applicant was actively trading on 1 March 2020  which, according to 
Ks account filings, wasnt the case.
Mr C has also expressed his dissatisfaction that HSBC made the decision to no longer offer 
banking services to K and to close Ks accounts. But in much the same way as a customer 
can choose to no longer do business with a specific bank, so a bank can also choose to no 
longer offer its services to a specific customer. 
HSBCs terms allow for the immediate closure of accounts by HSBC in certain 
circumstances, including when fraudulent activity may have occurred. And given that Im 
satisfied that K wasnt eligible to have applied for the BBL that it did, Im also satisfied that 
HSBC havent acted unfairly by applying these terms in this instance. 
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and 
it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any 
further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I trust hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman