DRN-3703130
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that after Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages 
repossessed their home, it sold the property at undervalue, and now they are being asked to 
pay a very significant shortfall. They dont think they should be responsible for all of this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F told us that their house was repossessed in late 2018. Topaz then put it up for 
sale at over £700,000. They said an offer near the asking price was received, but rejected by 
Topaz. Mr and Mrs F said their house ended up being sold for less than £600,000. They said 
it was a large home in a very good area, and it was sold for less than the couple had paid for 
it many years previously. They didnt believe the house had devalued, they thought Topaz 
had sold it for less than it was worth. And Topaz is asking them to pay the difference. They 
wanted Topaz to accept its responsible for selling the property too cheaply, and write off its 
claim against them for the difference.
Topaz didnt agree with that. It said it put the house on the market towards the end of 2018, 
with an initial asking price of £750,000. That was reduced after a couple of months. Some 
offers were received in February 2019, and it looked like the house might then sell for close 
to the asking price. But the highest offer, which Topaz had accepted, was withdrawn after a 
survey showed serious structural, damp and timber issues. Topaz accepted a slightly lower 
offer, but this was also withdrawn, apparently due to a unilateral notice on the property.
That unilateral notice was removed in late September 2019, and at the start of October 2019 
the asking price was substantially reduced. An offer of a little less than £600,000 was 
accepted in December 2019. A little over a month later, a second offer was received, which 
was slightly closer to £600,000, but that was turned down because the existing offer was 
proceeding well, and about to exchange. The house then sold at the end of January 2020.
Topaz said it had worked to obtain the best market price, and it wasnt in its interest to 
accept a lower offer. It wouldnt waive the shortfall. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He went through all of the steps 
Topaz had taken in marketing the property. The initial asking price was based on valuations 
done at the time, both by a surveyor and two estate agents. And Topaz had initially chosen 
to market the property, for the first two months, at the higher recommended asking price, but 
that didnt generate offers close to the asking. So the price was reduced. Our investigator 
said that was reasonable, because the longer the property remained unsold, the more 
interest was being added to the mortgage. And the property may also have been 
deteriorating in this time. 
Our investigator said that the offer made in February 2019 was reduced by £70,000, and 
Topaz wouldnt accept that, which again our investigator thought was reasonable, as it had 
previously had other offers well above this amount. An offer that was accepted in March 
2019 was withdrawn over legal issues with the property. Those took until late September 
2019 to resolve. After this the asking price was reduced again, which our investigator said 
was reasonable given the further deterioration in the property. An offer was accepted and a 
sale was proceeding when a slightly higher offer was received. Our investigator said it was 
reasonable for this offer to be refused. There was no guarantee the offer would have gone 
through (especially as a number of other offers had been withdrawn previously) and the 
existing sale was well advanced. That sale was then achieved in January 2020. 
Our investigator didnt think Topaz had acted unreasonably in marketing this property. It 
carried out the appropriate valuations for initial marketing, and considered all the offers to 
obtain the best price it could, whilst keeping in mind the increasing cost of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They said our investigators conclusions ignored the basic house 
price data in the UK in general, and this area in particular. They pointed to other houses 
nearby which had more than doubled in value, while their house had apparently gone down. 
They said Topaz hadnt tried to get the best price. They wanted to see the valuation 
information, and they said Topaz had greatly overcharged them on interest. 
Our investigator said a complaint about the interest charged by Topaz would be a new issue, 
and Mr and Mrs F would have to complain about that to Topaz first. He also said that Topaz 
relied on professional valuations when it set a sale price. And just because other properties 
went up in value, doesnt mean this happens to every property. Unfortunately, the value of 
Mr and Mrs Fs house was affected by the work it needed. He felt that Topaz could have sold 
the house more quickly for a lower price, if that had been its priority.
Mr and Mrs F said theyd read the valuation report, and their house was still sold for 
£150,000 less than the valuation. They said that house prices simply dont fall like this. They 
still thought the sale was grossly unfair. Mr and Mrs F wanted their complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the initial marketing of Mr and Mrs Fs property was done promptly, after 
Topaz gained possession of the property. And Im satisfied it was based on the higher end of 
the professional valuations received. I think this was a reasonable starting point. But Im also 
aware that Topaz didnt receive interest at this level, so it reduced the asking price after a 
couple of months. I also think this was reasonable  I dont think Topaz should have 
maintained an asking price which was considerably above the offers received at the time. 
The house did then generate interest at a slightly lower price, and I think it must have 
appeared at the time as if it would sell in early 2019. Our investigator referred to there being 
26 viewings and five offers (between £550,000 and £675,000) by the end of January, but I 
think the offer of £675,000 was only received in February 2019, after the asking price was 
reduced. We know that this offer was only rejected because two higher offers were received, 
but unfortunately this sale then fell through.
It is unfortunate that sales in 2019 didnt go ahead, but the reasons for these have been set 
out by Topaz. The first sale fell through due to the amount of work required on the buyers 
survey, and the second fell through due to legal issues over the propertys title, which took a 
little time to resolve. 
I understand that by late 2019, the property had been empty for some time. The agents 
reported worsening problems with damp, and the price was reduced again at this stage. I can see Topaz successfully pushed back on lower offers at this point, but ultimately I think it 
was reasonable for Topaz to accept the offer that eventually proceeded to sale. I dont think 
that Topaz should have rejected an offer which was only for £15,000 more, which came in 
just before this sale was ready to exchange. In the context of other offers which were 
withdrawn, and a property which was deteriorating, I think Topaz acted reasonably when it 
decided not to take this risk. 
I do understand how deeply disappointed Mr and Mrs F must be at a sale so far below what 
they paid, particularly as they told us they did a considerable amount of work to the house 
too. But I dont agree that all houses will simply increase in value over time. 
I can see that Topaz has taken the advice of property professionals in this sale. And those 
professionals Topaz instructed to advise it made it aware of concerns around the property 
from the start, including works to put the property in good order and to fix damp, as well as 
the presence of a protected species at the property which would further complicate the 
picture for a buyer. Unfortunately, problems like damp are likely to worsen over time. 
I would not have said it was reasonable here for Topaz to wait indefinitely to achieve a sale. 
Thats not just because Topaz was being told that this property was, unfortunately, 
deteriorating over time while it wasnt occupied, but also because Mr and Mrs Fs full debt 
would continue to accrue interest until the property was sold.
Although I havent set out all the offers in detail, as our investigator did, I have considered 
the full history of this property. And Ive not seen anything to suggest to me that Topaz acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it sold this property. I have read its own internal notes, and I 
can see it has repeatedly pushed its agents for the best price it can achieve. And, like our 
investigator, I do think its firmly in Topazs interest to achieve the best sale price it can. 
I think it did that here, so I dont think Topaz has to waive the shortfall now. I know Mr and 
Mrs F will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman