DRN-2341269
The complaint
Miss M says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender  irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Miss M between        
December 2015 and January 2018. A summary of Miss Ms borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 07/12/2015 18/03/2016 3 £300.00 £200.80
2 19/03/2016 17/06/2016 3 £500.00 £283.66
3 18/06/2016 24/11/2016 6 £1,000.00 £400.66
4 24/11/2016 18/12/2017 12 £1,500.00 £329.19
5 18/01/2018 outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £314.00
At the time of writing this decision loan 5 remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ms complaint and thought the loans from loan 3 
onwards shouldnt have been given because she didnt seem to be managing her finances 
and appeared to be dependent on this type of borrowing.             
Mr Lender disagreed because it said it had done checks on Miss M and the loans were 
affordable.  It also explained it considered loan 3 to be in a second chain of borrowing due 
to the length of time between loan 1 and 2. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Lender has said there were two chains of borrowing due to the length of loan 1  which 
was three months. However, I dont agree this was the case. We consider a break in the 
lending when there is a gap between one loan ending and a new one starting. Looking at 
Miss Ms loans the longest break she had was one month between loans 4 and 5  and I 
dont consider that gap significant enough given how long she had been borrowing from Mr 
Lender. On this basis I will be considering Miss Ms loans as one chain. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed to do more when it approved loans 1 and 2.     
Miss M didnt provide anything further for us to consider about them. As there is no dispute 
about these loans, I wont be making any findings on them.
Looking at everything that has been provided, I think when Miss M applied for loan 3, there 
was a sufficient enough suggestion from her borrowing behaviour that she was having 
problems managing her money. This was the second time Miss M had applied for a new 
loan the day after she repaid her previous one. 
In addition, Miss M was borrowing a significantly larger amount than her previous loans and 
committing herself to repaying it over a longer period. Given the nature of these types of 
loan, I would question why someone would repay one loan only to quickly come back and 
borrow more.   
All of this was most likely an indication that she was in a cycle of debt and was further 
borrowing to cover the hole that repaying her previous loans was leaving in her finances.Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Miss M, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5. I say 
this because: 
at this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Miss M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss M had taken out five loans in just over three years So,        
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely that Miss Ms indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably. 
Miss Ms first loan was for £300 and loan 5 was for £1,500. By now, Mr Lender ought 
to have known that it was unlikely that Miss M was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Miss M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender 
over an extended period.
I think that Miss M lost out because Mr Lender provided borrowing for loan 5 because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The length of time over which Miss M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint about loans 3 to 5 and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss M from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, Mr Lender should do the following:
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt Mr Lender should buy this back if Mr Lender is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender cant buy the debt back, then    
Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mr Lender has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss M having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 5. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr 
Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M. Mr Lender shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in 
relation to loans 3 and 4. The overall pattern of Miss Ms borrowing for loan 5 means any 
information recorded about this loan is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove this loan 
entirely from Miss Ms credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan 5 from Miss Ms 
credit file until this has been repaid, but Mr Lender should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about loan 5.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman