DRN-2238394
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T have complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
turned down their business protection insurance claim. Mrs B, a director of T, has brought 
the complaint on Ts behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to T and Covea will include the actions and comments of their 
respective agents and representatives.
What happened
T held a business protection insurance policy with Covea and claimed on their policy after 
they were impacted by the government-imposed lockdown in response to Covid-19. Covea 
said the policy didnt cover Ts claim because it wasnt included in the list of specified 
illnesses covered by the policy.
As Covea refused to pay Ts claim, Mrs B brought Ts complaint to our service. She said T 
should have been covered under the policy because she believed Covea was acting 
unreasonably in declining the claim.
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In short, he 
didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to property or that it was covered under the list of 
specified illnesses covered by the policy. T asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T is looking to claim on its business protection insurance policy. These types of policies offer 
protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether Covea acted fairly in declining Ts claim, the starting point is to consider the specific 
policy T took out. 
Having reviewed Ts policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for their 
closure as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. However, I 
would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most relevant 
provide cover.
Compulsory Closure
Ts policy included cover for compulsory closure. The policy states that it would provide 
cover for disruption to business activities in consequence of compulsory closure by a public 
body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the premises
e) the occurrence within 25 miles of the premises of a notifiable human infectious or 
contagious disease.
The policy defines notifiable human infectious or contagious disease as:
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, cholera, diphtheria, dysentery, food 
poisoning, leptospirosis, malaria, measles, meningitis, meningococcal septicaemia (without 
meningitis), mumps, ophthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid fever, plague, rabies, relapsing 
fever, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, typhus fever, viral 
haemorrhagic fever, viral hepatitis, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, whooping cough, 
yellow fever.
No other disease shall be added to the above list without our prior written consent.
Having considered the list of illnesses in the policy, Im not persuaded this section provides T 
with cover in the circumstances as Covid-19 isnt one of the specified illnesses and the 
policy states that no other disease can be added without Coveas consent. I realise that 
Covid-19 wasnt something Covea would have known about when the policy was drafted, but 
there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list.
Ts policy sets out a specific list of the illnesses which are covered by the policy and having 
reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing which implies that it provides cover for other 
illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the 
policy is to provide cover in the event of the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be interpreted as covering any illnesses that arent specified in the 
list set out above. So even though its clear there has been a compulsory closure of T, I dont 
think the circumstances were covered by this extension.
Damage and Prevention of Access
Ts policy also provides cover for loss resulting from business interruption or interference in 
consequence of any damage occurring at the premises to any property insured or to any 
other property used by you at the premises for the purposes of the business.
Damage is defined in the policy as loss, destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded, 
while property insured means the buildings, computer systems, Group contents . or any 
other property as specified in the schedule.
For this to provide cover, there would need to be damage to Ts buildings, computer 
systems, group contents or other property specified in the schedule. As I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property, I dont think this provides 
cover for the circumstances of Ts claim. 
The policy also covers loss as a result of damage to property within 1 kilometre of the 
premises which prevents or hinders the use of or prevents access to the premises.
As Ive explained above, there would need to be damage to property and I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage, as defined in the policy, to property 
within 1 kilometre of Ts premises. So, I dont think this extension provides cover for Ts 
claim either.  So while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the government-imposed lockdown had 
on T, having taken all of this into account and having considered the remaining terms of the 
policy, I dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining Ts claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman