DRN-1988060
 
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs B is unhappy with the value of a claim under a whole-of-life policy 
that Mrs B held with The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
What happened
Mrs B took out the policy in 1969.
In mid 2015 Mrs B was told the policy would pay out£1,534.50 if a claim was made at that 
time. Mrs B was also told that the amount payable if a death claim was made is dependent 
on future profits so may be higher or lower than the amount stated.
In June 2017 the policy was fully paid up and from then on Mrs B didn't need to make 
anymore contributions, but Royal London would continue to add any profits.
When Mrs B passed away in mid 2019 the policy paid out £1,531.45.
Mrs B's son, Mr B who is the executor of her will, was unhappy with this as the policy had 
gone down in value since 2015. Royal London explained that the money had been invested, 
along with other policyholders' money in an investment fund which could increase or 
decrease in value due to the investment climate. They also explained how the bonuses were 
calculated over the life of the policy.Mr B remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into things. He was satisfied that Royal London administered 
the policy correctly and that the value went down between 2015 and 2019 because the fund 
didn't perform in those years. As the money was invested collectively there wasn't a track of 
Mrs B's particular individual contributions to the fund and how they performed specifically. Mr 
B wanted more detail about the investments and why the policy lost money as 
he's concerned that without any detail about the investments the policy is open to fraud. So 
the complaint has come to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The type of policy Mrs B had was a with-profits whole-of-life assurance policy.
This type of policy offers a basic sum insured of £147.20with profits. £147.20was guaranteed 
to pay in the event of Mrs B's death and anything more was dependent on the profits earned 
by the fund into which Mrs B's premiums were invested. Mrs B's share of the profits were 
added to the basic sum assured in the form of annual bonuses.Royal London has given Mr B a copy of the bonuses over the years showing how they were 
calculated. Also included was information about an uplift in the sum assured which rose to 
£176.10. I've also seen this so am happy that Mr B has been provided with information about 
how the bonuses were calculated.
By taking out the policy Mrs B gave control of the investment element of that policy to Royal 
London. They've shown that it was invested in line with the terms and risk profile.
Mr B wants a breakdown of how the funds for Mrs B were invested. But this isn't possible as 
Royal London invests policyholders' money collectively into a fund. It is then this fund that 
generates the performance - not Mrs B's individual contributions. So there won't be a track of 
Mrs B's particular contributions and how they performed individually.
It's Royal London's responsibility to administer the policy in line with the terms, and I'm 
satisfied that's what they've done. The issue here is that the fund didn't perform over the last 
few years of the policy.
I can understand Mr B's disappointment, but I've not seen anything to suggest Royal London 
has done anything wrong nor that the value of the claim was calculated incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman