DRN-3007074
The complaint
Mr J and Miss W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc misled them about the 
amount it would lend. As a result theyre unable to complete work on their property. They ask 
that NatWest agrees to additional borrowing or waives the early repayment charge (ERC) so 
they can borrow elsewhere. The complaint was brought to us by Mr J and Miss Ws broker.
What happened
Mr J and Miss W applied for a right to buy mortgage with NatWest in 2020. Their broker says 
he asked NatWest about additional lending to pay for an extension and was told Mr J and 
Miss W could borrow up to 80% loan to value. Theyve since been told they can only borrow 
a percentage of the right to buy discount each year. This isnt enough to pay for the work 
they want to do to the property.
Our investigator said there wasnt sufficient evidence that NatWest had misled Mr J and 
Miss W before they took out the mortgage. She said it acted fairly in offering additional 
borrowing to Mr J and Miss W, even if this wasnt as much as theyd wanted.
Mr J and Miss W didnt agree. They said the prospect of being able to borrow up to 80% of 
the property value was the reason they took out the mortgage with NatWest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
NatWest issued a mortgage offer in early November 2020 and the mortgage completed in 
January 2021. Mr J and Miss W borrowed £5,000 more than the purchase price, to fund 
home improvements. The loan to value was about 64%. The right to buy discount was about 
£70,000, about 40% of the property value. The local authority can reclaim the discount if the 
property is sold within a certain period: the amount it can reclaim reduces each year.
Mr J and Miss Ws broker says he spoke to NatWest twice in November about whether 
theyd be able to take out additional borrowing. The broker says he was told theyd be able 
to borrow up to 80% of the property value. 
NatWest says theres a note of a discussion between the broker and its mortgage adviser 
about additional borrowing, but it wasnt clear that it related to Mr J and Miss Ws application. 
There are no recordings of these calls. The broker hasnt provided written evidence  such 
as a file note or email sent to Mr J and Miss W immediately after the call  to support what 
he says he was told. NatWests note of the discussion is very brief.
NatWest provided its lending policy. It does offer additional lending of up to 80% of the loan 
to value under a right to buy mortgage. But there are further restrictions in place during the 
period in which the Local Authority has the right to claw back the right to buy discount. Its 
not clear from the available evidence that the discussion was specific enough for the 
NatWest adviser to know that the broker was asking about additional borrowing during this 
period. 
After the mortgage completed Mr J contacted NatWest about applying for additional 
borrowing of about £24,000. He was told he could only borrow a proportion of the right to 
buy discount each year  in this case about £14,000 each year. As theyd already taken 
£5,000 of additional borrowing Mr J and Miss W could only apply for £9,000 in the first year.
Mr J says they wouldnt have taken out the mortgage with NatWest if they hadnt been 
misled about being able to take out additional borrowing. He says theyd have applied 
elsewhere.
Mr J and Miss W would like NatWest to offer the additional borrowing or waive the ERC so 
they can apply elsewhere. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require NatWest to do this. 
First, NatWest is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending policy. Here, the 
policy is intended to reduce the risk of lending more than could be recovered from the sales 
proceeds if the property is sold  bearing in mind that the local authority would have the right 
to reclaim the right to buy discount. Lending more than could be recovered from the sale 
proceeds isnt just a risk for NatWest, it could leave Mr J and Miss W with a shortfall debt. I 
dont think NatWest was unfair in how it applied its lending policy here.
Second, I dont think its sufficiently certain from the available evidence that NatWest gave 
the broker incorrect information. 
And third, I dont think its sufficiently certain that Mr J and Miss W would have been able to 
borrow the amount they wanted elsewhere on terms acceptable to them, even if theyd 
known NatWest wouldnt offer the amount of additional borrowing they wanted. 
Mr J and Miss W believe the value of their property will increase when the work is done, as 
well as giving them a more comfortable family home. I do understand their frustration that 
they cant apply for the loan they need for this immediately. But I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require NatWest to lend the amount they want, or give any guarantees that it 
will do so in the future.
NatWest apologised if it hadnt given the broker correct information and paid £100 for poor 
service. It said Mr J and Miss W can apply for about £9,000 in the first year, waiving its usual 
requirement that applications are for a minimum of £10,000. I think, in the circumstances, 
this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think National 
Westminster Bank Plcs offer to put matters right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman