DRN-3271803
The complaint
Mr K complains HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (referred to as first direct in this 
decision) reported a missed payment on his credit file and refuses to remove it.
What happened
Mr K had a personal loan with first direct. 
In April 2020, Mr K asked first direct for a loan payment holiday due to the impact the Covid-
19 pandemic was having on him. The same day first direct wrote to Mr K to confirm, 
amongst other things, that: 
1. A loan payment holiday of three months was agreed and covered the payments he 
was due to make in May, June and July 2020.
2. Unless he made his repayments by standing order from a first direct 1st account, he 
would need to:
a. contact his bank to cancel his standing order now; and
b. Set up new standing order at the end of the three-month period.
This would mean that, on 1 August 2020, after 3 months of support in the form of a loan 
payment holiday, Mr Ks loan repayments would return to normal. 
On 10 July 2020, first direct sent Mr K a text to let him know he needed to logon to online 
banking as there was a message for him. The online banking message explained the loan 
holiday was due to come to an end and the payment start date would be 1 August 2020. It 
also said its important that you contact the bank you wish to set up your personal loan 
payment from.
The loan repayments on 1 August and 1 September 2020 werent made. On 2 September, 
Mr K phoned first direct to explain he noticed his payments hadnt been taken and thought 
they wouldve been claimed automatically. He was told the arrears would be reported to 
external Credit Reference Agencies (CRA) but, if he made a payment to his loan that day for 
the September payment, this would only be for the missed payment in August. Mr K paid the 
arrears but was unhappy about the missed August payment being reported and asked for 
this to be reconsidered. first direct explained it wouldnt do this as it hadnt made an error 
and was required to accurately report to the CRAs what has happened on an account.
Mr K complained about this but first direct didnt agree to do anything differently so he 
brought his complaint to our service. To put things right, hed like first direct to remove the 
mark against his credit file. He says he didnt have any communications from first direct 
telling him the loan payments had gone into arrears and, if itd contacted him about this, he 
wouldve sorted it out straightaway. Whilst he received the July text, he felt it shouldve been 
made clearer in the text that payments needed to be reinstated rather than directing him to 
access a message through online banking which he doesnt use and likely cant access as 
his login details are probably expired. As hes never been in arrears on any banking products 
before and these are unprecedented times, he feels first direct should show leniency.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She 
acknowledged he overlooked reinstating his standing order. Even so, she felt first direct had 
told him what needed to be done for the payments to start again in its April 2020 letter. 
Further, it also sent him a reminder in July. Taking into account the above and the obligation 
on first direct to report accurate information to the CRAs, she didnt consider itd done 
anything wrong when it reported the missed payment in August 2020. She explained Mr K 
could add a notice of correction to his credit file to explain what happened for other creditors 
to see.
Finally, she acknowledged Mr K wants our service to tell first direct to change when it 
contacts a customer after theyve failed to make a loan repayment from an external account. 
However, this isnt something we can do as we arent the regulator. Instead, she thought 
about whether first directs process had been applied to Mr K fairly and reasonably. And she 
thought it had and as it would to another first direct customer in a similar situation. 
Mr K disagreed and this matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr K that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I wanted to say Im sorry to hear Mr K, like many others, has had a difficult time 
during the coronavirus pandemic. 
In this matter, the key thing for me to decide is whether it was within the terms of the 
agreement for first direct to record the late payment marker for the missed payment in 
August 2020 against Mr Ks credit file and if this was done in a fair and reasonable way.
As part of Mr Ks loan agreement, hes required to make the monthly repayment by a 
specified date each month. The terms are clear what steps first direct may take if this doesnt 
happen including reporting it to the CRAs. 
The requirement for monthly payments was varied after he requested a repayment holiday in 
April 2020 so he was allowed to miss the loan repayments for May, June and July 2020. 
From the evidence Ive seen, first direct was clear about what Mr K needed to do when the 
payment holiday was:
- agreed he needed to cancel the standing order from his other bank account now 
which he did; and
- going to end he needed to set up a new standing order from his other bank account 
in time for the August repayment which he didnt do.
Taking this into account, I cant say First Direct did anything wrong when it reported the 
August missed payment nor when it wouldnt agree to remove it. Whilst I understand Mr K 
struggled during the pandemic and mistakes happen, whats reported to the CRAs needs to 
be accurate and its the case Mr K missed his August payment though itd been made clear 
to him that he needed to set up a new standing order in order to make that payment. Further, first direct sent Mr K an online banking message along with a text to let him know 
there was a message waiting for him. I note what Mr K says about not using online banking 
and receiving a text which wasnt specific about what the message related to. Even so, 
checking his messages was Mr Ks responsibility and he ran the risk of missing something 
important if he didnt do this when he knew there was one waiting for him. Particularly in 
circumstances where it related to a message from a bank and he had payment holidays on 
several different accounts at the time. Whilst I appreciate Mr K may not have had an active 
online banking log in, he couldve resolved this or contacted first direct to discuss the 
message on the phone. 
I understand Mr K feels he couldve sorted matters out earlier than he did if hed been told 
about the August payment being missed soon after this happened. However, our investigator 
has explained first directs process in relation to missed payments which are usually made by 
standing order. And, as were not the regulator, this isnt something our service can generally 
interfere with. Even so, given the clear information Mr K was given about what he needed to 
do to make the August payment in the April letter, I dont consider it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying its usual process to a missed standing order payment in Mr Ks 
particular situation.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for first direct to 
report a missed payment to the CRAs. As this is the case, Im satisfied first direct didnt do 
anything wrong or treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman