DRN-2586556
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a disputed transaction.
What happened
Mr C says money was taken out of his account whilst he was in Brazil. He says he used his 
account card but nearly £1,000 was taken out of his account. Mr C says Barclays initially 
raised a disputed transaction but later told him it should have raised a chargeback. He says 
he wasnt given correct advice and would like his money back.
Barclays says the transaction was authorised by Mr C and that he used his account card on 
the day in question. It says it correctly told Mr C that it would decline his fraud claim but 
accepts it ought to have questioned him further at the time. Barclays has offered Mr C £100 
compensation and says any chargeback is likely to have been unsuccessful as he was 
unable to provide receipts about the transaction and Mr C would have used the correct PIN.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained the chargeback scheme and 
thought it was reasonable for Barclays to have asked Mr C for evidence of the transaction. 
But also thought that Barclays hadnt dealt appropriately with the issue and recommended it 
increase its compensation offer to £200. Barclays then provided further information and the 
investigator reconsidered his view and thought overall the £100 compensation appropriate 
as it unlikely any chargeback would have succeeded.
Mr C doesnt agree with that view and says in summary that three months were lost due to 
Barclays actions and it ought to have noticed a large payment being made abroad and 
blocked it. He says the merchants actions were likely to be fraudulent but may have been a 
mistake, but the delay prevented him having any chance of getting his money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and how 
strongly he feels about took place. I make clear to him that I cant comment on his complaint 
about why Barclays didnt flag up the payment and contact him, as that is now subject to a 
new complaint.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run, not by Barclays in this case, but by the 
card providers. It is not a right and there is no guarantee of success if one is made. And 
Barclays is obliged to follow the rules set by the card provider.
There is no dispute here that Barclays initially dealt with Mr Cs complaint as a possible 
fraudulent transaction. I dont think it made a mistake by doing so as I think Mr C has told us 
and Barclays that he may have been the victim of fraud. But I accept, as Barclays now does, 
that further questions ought to have been asked of Mr C and consideration given to a 
chargeback at an earlier time. 
I think it unlikely any chargeback would have succeeded even if it had been raised closer to 
the time of the transaction. I say that as Barclays has provided evidence that Mr Cs account 
card was used for the transaction and that it was authorised by PIN. I also think any receipt 
would have simply contained the amount and I dont think Mr C has explained why he would 
have authorised the payment or how the mistake could have taken place. As I think it likely 
the amount of the transaction would have been visible to him before authorisation and if not, 
then I would have expected Mr C to have noticed that.
I also think it unlikely the merchant would have been able to have provided anything further 
in evidence about the transaction and would no doubt have maintained it was authorised and 
so correct.
Overall, I accept Barclays ought to have explained the chargeback process earlier than it did 
and so I appreciate why Mr C questions if that delay affected that process. Im satisfied that 
even if a chargeback had been raised sooner then the outcome would have on balance been 
the same. And so, I dont think that delay meant that the possibility of Mr C receiving his 
money back under a successful chargeback was reduced.
Im satisfied that Barclays compensation offer is fair and reasonable and of course its up to 
Mr C to decide if he wishes to accept it. I also think this brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £100. Mr Cs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman