DRN-3698593
The complaint
Mr S complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined 
his claim under his home insurance for damage caused during bad weather.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to LV when his property was damaged. He said, I had an experienced 
roofer examine the damage in detail and the only conclusion he arrived at was severe 
weather damage. 
LV appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim and review the damage. It considered the 
damage under the storm peril within the policy but decided to decline the claim (on behalf of 
LV). It said there wasnt any evidence of a storm and it didnt think the damage presented 
was consistent with what a storm would cause. It said, movement of the bay canopy looks 
to be an ongoing issue.
Mr S complained so LV reviewed the loss adjusters decision. It agreed that a storm wasnt 
present around the date of the reported claim and felt the damage was possibly caused by 
wear and tear over a few years, so it declined the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought LV had correctly reviewed 
the damage under the storm peril. However, the evidence showed there wasnt storm 
conditions and he didnt think a storm had caused the damage. So, he thought LV were fair 
in declining the claim. Mr S disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
LV said the Beaufort Wind Scale classifies storm winds as having wind speeds of 55 miles 
per hour and above. However, LV have decided to treat any winds of 47 miles per hour or 
above as storm conditions. The weather date for your area suggests that the maximum wind 
speeds on 26 May 2022 were 25 miles per hour. Ive also checked the weather date for the 
previous 7 days. The wind speeds were never higher than 25 miles per hour. We dont 
consider that there were any storm conditions at the time.
Our service has access to weather reports, so Ive checked these against what LV has said. 
These reports are consistent with what LV has reported, so I think its been reasonable to say 
a storm wasnt present leading up to the date of the claim. The winds were significantly lower 
than what the industry would normally constitute a storm.
As Ive answered no to this question, I wont consider the remaining questions, as with no 
storm conditions, its not possible for Mr S to have a successful claim under the storm peril. 
So, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain a little further why. 
I appreciate Mr S told our service that his contractor said bad weather caused the damage. 
However, its important to understand that an insurance policy only covers certain insured 
events. As Mr S said his damage was caused by bad weather, I think LV has been fair to 
consider his claim under the storm event  as this is one of the insurable events he would be 
covered for. Whereas general bad weather itself isnt something that can be claimed for.
Unfortunately, though, when LV validated the claim for the presence of a storm it correctly 
concluded a storm hadnt occurred. Bad weather doesnt constitute a storm  the weather 
needs to meet certain parameters and the weather around the time of the claim didnt meet 
these. LV applied consistent parameters that are used across the industry  so I think it has 
been reasonable. 
I have checked the policy to see if there are any other events Mr S could claim for with his 
circumstances. However, I dont think there are. Mr S doesnt have accidental damage cover 
for buildings and hasnt presented any evidence of an accident occurring. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman