DRN-3764695
The complaint
Company H complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, 
unfairly declined to reimburse the company two payments it did not make. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in January 2022, Mr S the director of H contacted Cashplus and told the bank that he 
noticed two transactions on Hs account, totalling about £13,500 which the company did not 
make. 
Mr S explained that the previous day (4 January 2022) he received multiple calls from a 
number that he recognised as Cashplus. The caller said that they were calling from 
Cashplus and they needed to verify the activity on his business account from earlier that 
day. Mr S explained that the caller could tell him his recent account activity, so he was sure 
he was speaking to his bank. 
Mr S confirmed the recent payments from the account as genuine explaining that he was 
paying his suppliers. The caller then told Mr S his username for online banking and 
explained that in order to release these payments, they required Mr Ss password for the 
account. Mr S gave the password to the caller and the call ended shortly after. It was not 
until the next day that Mr S noticed that two payments had left Hs account.
Mr S said that these were unauthorised fraudulent transactions and asked Cashplus to 
reimburse the company. Cashplus didnt agree. It said that it made no error. It also said that 
H / Mr S failed to keep the accounts security details safe and secure. 
Cashplus said that a week prior to the relevant transactions, on 30 December 2021, a third 
party attempted to access Hs account without authorisation. Following this, the bank spoke 
to Mr S and put in some additional security measure. The bank said it advised Mr S at that 
time that no further follow up calls would be made by the bank and that Mr S should be wary 
of any calls he received claiming to be from Cashplus. It recommended that he change the 
online banking password and was also advised not to disclose any One Time Passcodes 
(OTP) to anyone, but Mr S divulged the OTP to a third party. Therefore, it wouldnt reimburse 
the company. Further, on being advised of what had happened, the bank took immediate 
steps to contact the beneficiaries banks but unfortunately no sum remained.
Mr S was unhappy with the banks decision and referred the complaint to us. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it could not be upheld. They said, 
in summary:  
Cashplus has accepted that these transactions werent authorised by Mr S. So, the bank 
must demonstrate that Mr S failed with intent or gross negligence to keep Hs account 
details and payment instrument secure.
Mr S says that he has no recollection of the calls which the bank claims were made on 
30 December 2021.
The banks submissions evidence that it made two outbound calls to Mr S to that day. 
The calls were made to the registered mobile number of Mr S, which he still uses. 
The first call was made at 4.48pm. The records show that the bank completed enhanced 
verification to ensure it was indeed speaking to Mr S. During the call Mr S was told that 
someone was attempting to impersonate him and gain access to the account. The bank 
added a security measure to be used specifically over the phone and told Mr S that this 
would need to be confirmed each time that Mr S spoke to its customer services.
At 5.01pm Cashplus spoke to Mr S again. The bank says at that time and indeed in the 
future calls Mr S was able to satisfy the additional security measure put during the 
previous call. Further, during this time, the person attempting to impersonate Mr S was 
repeatedly calling the bank from a withheld number but was failing to pass the security.
Given all of the above, it is more likely than not that the bank spoke twice to Mr S on 
30 December. 
The records show that during the second call the bank told Mr S how to keep the 
account secure, advised him to change his online banking password and most crucially, 
it warned him not to divulge OTPs to third parties. 
As regards Mr Ss call with the fraudster on 4 January 2022, there were some red flags 
that reasonably ought to have raised suspicions. For example, the caller did not initiate 
the newly added security measure which the bank said on 30 December 2021 that it will 
always do going forward. Instead the caller simply confirmed Mr Ss username and then 
asked for his password, which was highly unusual. Mr S told us that he provided the 
password to the caller. Given Mr Ss previous conversations with and the warnings from 
the bank, he ought to have been careful not to reveal the password. 
Mr S said that he did not receive or share any OTP with the caller. However, the banks
evidence shows that an OTP was sent to Mr Ss registered mobile number on that day. 
This OTP was used to add a new trusted device to the account just a minute later, which 
was then used to make the two disputed transactions.
Taking everything into account, the investigator concluded that Mr S acted with gross 
negligence. They further said that having reviewed the account activity for six months prior, 
the two fraudulent payments werent particularly unusual when compared to the companys 
usual account activity. So, it couldnt be said that the bank ought to have intervened when 
the payments were made. In addition, when Cashplus was notified of the unauthorised 
activity, it contacted the beneficiaries bank straightaway but unfortunately no funds 
remained. 
So, the investigator concluded that it wouldnt be fair to ask Cashplus to reimburse the 
payments.  
Mr S did not agree. He reiterated that he did not receive any call from Cashplus on 30 
December 2021. To support his contention, he produced several bills from his telephone 
provider. When this was put to Cashplus they pointed out that the bills only showed outgoing 
calls but on 30 December it was Cashplus who called Mr S. The bank also said that in the future calls Mr S used the security measure that was put in place during the 30 December 
call. So, they question how he would know it, if he didnt speak to the bank that day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator broadly for the 
same reasons.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, H isnt liable for payments they didnt 
authorise, unless they failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms of the 
account or keep security details safe. 
Cashplus seems to have accepted that the payments werent authorised by Mr S. So, the 
key question for me to consider is whether H / Mr S acted with gross negligence.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I consider that it is more likely that the two calls on 30 December 2021 took place between 
the bank and Mr S, for the reasons explained by the investigator. 
The case notes show that during the calls the bank warned Mr S that someone was trying to 
access his account, and so the bank went to the extent of putting some additional security 
measure in place. Thus, Mr S was on notice of the risks to his account. The bank also 
advised him not to reveal OTPs to anyone and consider changing the password on his 
account. Yet, Mr S told our investigator that, when the person pretending to be the bank 
contacted him, he revealed the password. 
Further, Mr S told us that someone pretending to be Cashplus called him on 4 January 2022 
at 16:18, 18:00 and 18:45 and 19:17. And he explained that it was in the last call, the caller 
asked for the password. However, the evidence shows that the disputed transactions took 
place at around 17:50. So it is unclear why the caller would continue to call afterwards or ask 
for the password when they already seem to have it. 
In this instance, it appears that the fraudster set up a new device as trusted device and 
carried out the transactions from that device. This happened at around 17:45 that day. The 
records show that an OTP was generated a minute before this and was sent to Mr Ss 
registered mobile number, as part of the verification process to make the new device a 
trusted device. 
Mr S says he never received and gave away any OTP. But it is difficult to see how the 
fraudster could have had access to the OTP which was sent to his mobile, and which was 
needed to complete the process. In addition, as part of the process of setting up a new 
device, I can also see that the fraudsters needed access to Mr Ss email in the new device. 
And ultimately, they also needed to know Mr Ss online banking user ID and password. 
Given all of the above, if I accept that Mr S didnt make or allow the payments himself, the 
conclusion Id need to come to here, based on available evidence, is that he didnt exercise 
reasonable care with the security details to such an extent that he was grossly negligent. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and his representative, and I am 
very sorry to hear that his health was affected due to the incident. But given my findings I am 
unable to ask Cashplus to reimburse the payments to the company. 
Mr S has also said that he contacted Cashplus as soon as it was open on 5 January 2022. 
So, they had the opportunity to recall the transactions but failed to do so. However, I can see 
that Cashplus contacted the beneficiaries bank swiftly on being advised of the fraud, but 
they advised that no funds remained. So, I am unable to conclude that the bank failed to 
help H on being told of the fraud. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman