DRN-3349353
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc downgraded his debit card to one without 
contactless functionality. 
What happened
Mr M had been a customer of the Co-op Bank for many years and during the pandemic he 
received a letter saying that his new debit card wouldnt be contactless enabled. He says 
there was no explanation given as to why contactless was no longer being provided. 
Co-op Bank issued a final response letter in August 2021. It says that when the card 
associated with Mr Ms current account expired a review was undertaken and a decision 
made to issue a card without a contactless functionality. It says that this was in line with its 
terms and conditions. It says it understood Mr M has use of another facility that would allow 
him to register his card and make payments without touching a keypad.  
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Co-op Bank had made a 
mistake and said it had acted in line with its terms and conditions. He also said that Co-op 
Bank had noted Mr Ms concerns about using a payment keypad and that Mr M had access 
to another payment method to allow him to make payments without touching a keypad. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he received an email from the 
Chief Executive saying he was trying to protect clinically vulnerable people during the 
pandemic but that by not providing a card with contactless functionality he was being put at 
more risk.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of Mr Ms health issues and understand that this must be a very difficult 
time for him. I also understand why he was particularly upset by the removal of the 
contactless functionality given his concerns about exposure to Coronavirus. However, for me 
to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Co-op Bank had made a mistake or 
not treated Mr M fairly. In this case I do not find I can say that.
Before February 2021, Mr M had a debit card with contactless functionality. I appreciate that 
he expected this situation to continue when his new card was issued. However, the terms of 
his account set out that:
After reviewing your personal circumstances, we may replace your card with a different type 
of card available under this agreement. Well tell you about the cards features when we 
send you the replacement.
In this case as Mr Ms card was approaching expiry a review was undertaken and a decision 
was made to issue a card without contactless functionality. This is line with the terms and 
conditions on Mr Ms account and I have nothing to suggest that Mr M has been treated 
unfairly regarding this review. Co-op Bank wrote to Mr M on 5 January 2021 and said that 
when his card expired on 28 February 2021 it would be replaced with a card without 
contactless functionality. So, while I appreciate further explanation wasnt provided I think 
Mr M was provided with reasonable notice of the change.
I understand this is upsetting for Mr M but in this case I do not find I can say that Co-op Bank 
did anything wrong. I understand the concerns about how to make payment and the need to 
touch payment keypads, but it also appears that Mr M has an alternative available to him. 
However even if this wasnt the case, as I do not find I can say Co-op Bank did anything 
wrong, and it acted within its terms and conditions, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman