DRN-3515585
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Chase de Vere Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited (Chase de Vere) in respect of the frequency and quality of advice. Hes 
also unhappy because he says they caused delay transferring his investments to another 
provider. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been previously set 
out. Briefly, Mr H first instructed Chase de Vere in 2010, but became increasingly unhappy 
with the service he received. He said he didnt receive regular financial advice or 
correspondence. Therefore, he decided to transfer to a new firm. 
Mr H says the new adviser contacted Chase de Vere in May 2020 with the transfer 
documents. However, he became concerned about the delay and wrote to Chase de Vere in 
August and September 2020 to complain. He felt he had been caused a financial loss and 
had missed out on gains from investment opportunities. 
Mr H said he didnt receive a response until he emailed the complaints team directly. 
Chase de Vere responded to the complaint in September 2020. They didnt uphold it and 
said their service had been reasonable. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. On 3 May 2022, I issued a 
Provisional Decision. I said: 
Email address and service
I can see Mr H signed up for the enhanced service and Chase de Vere set out what 
this included in their terms of business. For example, he could expect to receive a 
client review and face to face meeting at least once per year. Also, he could expect 
regular statements. Ive seen a copy of the reports between the years 2012 and 
2018 which shows me they were provided regularly during this time.
I understand there wasnt a review or face to face meeting during 2019. Chase de 
Vere have explained that this was because Mr H moved away from the UK and he 
said hed be in touch when he was back. Ive also seen a record to show review 
meetings were declined. Chase de Vere said the advisor tried to contact him, but 
his emails had bounced back. They arent able to provide a copy of these and say 
too much time has now passed. Also, they said Mr H hadnt updated his email 
address.
I appreciate Mr H has also complained about the email address Chase de Vere 
was using to try and contact him. He said he had previously corresponded with 
Chase de Vere on a different email address and Ive seen the evidence he provided 
of this.
The Investigator felt this issue should be dealt with separately, but I dont agree 
because it was raised in relation to the service and ongoing transfer problems. 
Therefore, Ive considered this point. Having done so, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable that Chase de Vere used the email address they did. I can 
understand it would have been helpful for them to explore other options to try and 
get in touch with Mr H, but it was also open to Mr H to contact them if he was 
concerned that he hadnt heard from them.
It does seem they tried to contact him on an email address they had. Whilst they 
might have previously used a different email address, Im not persuaded this was 
unreasonable. Also, Ive not seen evidence which shows me Mr H asked for a 
meeting or advice during this period. What I have seen is that when Mr H contacted 
Chase de Vere in February 2020 about accessing the online portal, Chase de Vere 
proactively asked about scheduling the review.
I also know Mr H was concerned about the frequency of updates and the nature of 
the updates he did receive. Ive reviewed the email sent by the adviser on 17 
August 2020. I do appreciate he included some personal details which Mr H says 
he wasnt particularly interested in. However, Im not minded to say it was wrong to 
do so. This was an email the advisor sent to his clients which probably included 
people hed worked with for a number of years. And its not unusual to see this type 
of correspondence in such circumstances. The advisor also explained hed be in 
touch and so this wasnt all Mr H could expect from the service.
I appreciate Mr H is more satisfied with the experience he has had with his new 
advisors and says he has been kept more regularly updated. But this doesnt lead 
me to conclude that Chase de Veres service was unreasonable. 
Overall, Im content Chase de Veres service was reasonable here. I understand 
the service wasnt to the level Mr H expected. However, Ive not been provided with 
evidence that Mr H contacted them about his portfolio and advice wasnt given. It 
also seems a reasonable effort was made to provide regular reviews and face to 
face meetings. The update I have seen as an example, also doesnt persuade me 
that Chase de Vere did anything wrong here. And when Mr H did contact Chase de 
Vere, he received a prompt response.
Delay
Ive reviewed the asset transfer form which was signed by the new advisor on 20 
May 2020. Ive seen the request was received by Chase de Vere on 10 July 2020. 
Chase de Vere responded promptly and explained they did not hold cross border 
permissions so could not deal with Mr H unless he was physically in the UK. This 
wasnt possible for Mr H at the time. Ive also seen internal correspondence in 
which Chase de Vere confirmed they would need a letter of authority from Mr H in 
the circumstances and the asset transfer request wasnt enough.
On 24 July 2020 Chase de Vere emailed Mr Hs new advisors and explained that 
they would need a signed letter of authority from Mr H, confirming that he wanted 
the new firm to take over as his preferred financial advisor. They said once they 
had this, they could inform the platform and the asset transfer could be dealt with 
directly by his new advisor. I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr H as he could 
not be in the UK at the time, but I can see Chase de Vere provided a solution here 
and this was reasonable.Mr Hs new advisors emailed Chase de Vere on 24 August 2020 and confirmed they 
had attached the letter Mr H sent. They asked what was required so they could start 
the transfer. They also requested a response on 2 September 2020.
Chase de Vere responded on the same day. They went on to confirm that they 
could not deal with the transfer as they had not received the signed authority 
needed from Mr H to deal with third party instructions. But I can see they explained 
the platform would be able to deal directly with his new platform and/or advisors. 
There was further correspondence in September 2020, where the new advisors 
confirmed they had contacted the platform directly.
Ive also considered Mr Hs comments that Chase de Vere could have contacted 
him on his updated email address. I do understand this would have been helpful. 
But I can see they responded promptly to his newly instructed advisors and 
explained what was needed. This was reasonable, and I wouldnt necessarily 
expect them to have done anything more.
Overall, Im not persuaded Chase de Vere have done anything wrong in respect of 
the transfer. The evidence shows they responded promptly to the request and the 
new advisors emails. Also, I dont think asking for the letter of authority so the 
platform could deal with his new advisor directly was unreasonable. I appreciate Mr 
H has explained he continues to have problems with transferring his assets from 
the platform. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt convince me that this was because 
of something Chase de Vere did when the transfer was requested. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further comments and evidence before making 
a final decision on the matter. Chase de Vere had nothing to add and Mr H requested a copy 
of the information I relied on (which has been provided). Therefore, Ive proceeded with my 
final decision on the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision and as set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman