DRN-3062971
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
  
What happened
 Mrs D complained to TSB that its overdraft charges were unfair and were making it difficult 
to pay her overdraft off. TSB didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mrs D was dis-satisfied she 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that TSB ought 
to have realised that Mrs D was experiencing financial difficulty by 2 March 2020 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
TSB disagreed and said there was no evidence to suggest any fees had been applied 
incorrectly. 
Mrs D has asked for an ombudsmans decision because she believes she should be 
refunded charges from further back than March 2020 as she has been in financial hardship 
for years. So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that TSB acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mrs Ds overdraft from 
2 March 2020. By this point Mrs D had complained to TSB and informed them that she was 
in financial difficulty and it ought to have been clear that Mrs D was in no position to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mrs D was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. TSBs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Mrs Ds overdraft usage and complaint should have prompted TSB to have 
realised that Mrs D wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As TSB didnt react to Mrs Ds overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
I understand Mrs D would like charges refunded before 2 March 2020 but Mrs Ds bank 
statements for her other accounts held with TSB before this date show she had a significant 
credit balance on these accounts for some time. So I dont think it unreasonable for TSB to 
conclude her overdraft was affordable for her before she raised her complaint.  
Mrs D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that TSB didnt 
treat Mrs D fairly and she lost out because of what TSB did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 2 March 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mrs D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ds credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in 2 March 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give Mrs 
D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. TSB Bank plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman