DRN-1423312
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1995. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed with that view. 
He said that no-one had sat down with him to tell him about the PPI cover and that was the 
definition of mis-selling, in his view. He also said he was in full employment and had full 
sickness cover at the relevant time. He told us he was a home owner and also that a family 
member could have helped him if he had financial difficulties. 
As Mr R disagreed with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but Im afraid I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing the application form Mr R completed when PPI was sold to 
him. It looks as though he applied for his credit card and the PPI at the same time on a pre-
printed form that had been sent to him by post. As the application was made by post, I think 
Mr R would have had the opportunity to complete the form in his own time and at his own 
pace.
 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr R would have known the PPI was optional 
and he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. Looking at the application form, I can see 
there were two equally prominent boxes  one to select if he wanted PPI cover and another 
directly underneath to select if he didnt want it. Mr R has selected the box to say that he did 
want a policy. I think the wording on the form is sufficiently clear for Mr R to know that if he 
didnt want this cover, he could have ticked the no box. 
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly that someone should have sat down with him to explain what 
the PPI was. However, there wouldnt have been an opportunity for Barclays to do that if the 
cover was sold by post. This wasnt an advised sale, so Barclays wasnt required to make 
sure the insurance was suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr R enough information 
about the policy so he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. That 
information should have been clear, fair and not misleading.
 
Looking at the application form, I dont think the cost of the policy was clearly set out. And I 
dont think Mr R would have necessarily realised from what Barclays said that he would have 
to pay interest on the premiums. There may well have been shortcomings with the sale, but 
that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I also have to consider what Mr 
R would have done if Barclays had told him everything it should have. 
To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And 
Ive also considered what we know about Mr Rs circumstances at the relevant time. 
If Mr R had to make a claim on the cover, I think 10% of his credit card balance would have 
been repaid for every month he was off sick from work or if he was made redundant up to a 
maximum of 12 months. Theres some confusion about how much sick pay Mr R would have 
had from work. Barclays said he told it he would have had full pay for four weeks. But in the 
questionnaire to this service, he said he would have had more than six months full pay, but 
less than 12 months. PPI would have lasted for 12 months and even taking what Mr R said 
about his sick pay at his highest, the cover would have lasted for longer than his sick pay.
I appreciate Mr R said he was a home owner. But with PPI, Mr R could have repaid his credit 
card without having to re-mortgage his house. And he may well have found it difficult to fund 
any equity release if he was not working. I also appreciate it would have been the intention 
of Mr Rs family member to help him if he ran into financial trouble. But circumstances can 
change and there is no guarantee that help would have been available to Mr R as and when 
he needed it. So I think the PPI would have offered benefits over and above Mr Rs existing 
means at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for him if he was out of work. 
Mr R told us he didnt have any health problems when the cover was sold. So I dont think 
hed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything else unusual about his circumstances that would have stopped him 
from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to.
Putting all of those things together, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Mr R if he 
was out of work. So it follows that I dont think hed have acted differently if Barclays had 
given him more or better information about the PPI. As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint 
Mr R, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld his complaint. I dont require 
Barclays to take any further action.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman