DRN-4185565
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds failure to pay anything for 
the personal effects left in his car after it was written off and disposed of by them following a 
claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Admirals agents should have checked for any personal effects in the car before 
disposing of the car and returned them to Mr M.
Mr M told Admiral about the personal effects and asked if he could have them back, 
but Admiral ignored his request. 
The policy limit for personal effects cannot be fairly applied because there is 
insufficient evidence they couldnt be recovered as a result of the damage to Mr Ms 
car. 
Admiral was wrong to suggest that Mr M should be able to provide proof of purchase, 
simply because he was able to show what it would cost to replace the items via the 
internet. 
I accept Mr Ms testimony that he lost the items listed and that due to the time hed 
had them he did not have receipts for them or anything else to prove ownership.
I accept it would cost £289.42 to replace the items and he should receive this 
amount, so he can replace them. 
Admiral agreed with our investigators view they should pay £75 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr M experienced as a result of them not dealing with 
his request to have his items returned in a reasonable way. And I agree this amount 
is fair. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and make Admiral 
pay him £289.42 for the items that were in his car when Admiral removed it from the scene 
of his accident and disposed of it. 
Admiral must also pay Mr M £75 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and order Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do what Ive set 
out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman