DRN-4412499
The complaint
Mr R believes Moneybarn No.1 Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a conditional sale 
agreement hed applied for.
Mr R is being represented in this complaint by Company I. However, for ease of reference, 
Ill refer to any comments or actions by Company I as being made or done by Mr R.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £5,995 over 60 months; with monthly payments of 
£205.33.
Mr R has complained that Moneybarn didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Hes said that he had a poor credit history, had recently defaulted on a credit agreement, 
and was in a debt management plan. So, he didnt think the payments were affordable. 
Moneybarn considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mr R could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr R wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Moneybarn were unable to evidence all the checks they did for Mr R, 
and the average income figure theyd used included overtime that wasnt a regular feature of 
Mr Rs income. So, she didnt think Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks. 
The investigator considered Mr Rs bank statements from the time of his application to 
Moneybarn, to establish what his monthly income and expenditure was. And she thought this 
showed the agreement was affordable to Mr R at the time. So, she didnt think Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong when approving the finance.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his credit file showed his true financial 
position at the time of the application, which included his defaults and reliance upon short-
term high interest loans (otherwise known as payday loans) He also said that his bank 
statements showed he was in financial hardship and that Moneybarn shouldve carried out 
more checks and gained a more thorough understanding of his financial circumstances 
before approving the finance. And he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Moneybarn didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Rs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for, as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Moneybarn have explained that they checked Mr Rs credit file and verified his income from 
two recent payslips. They then applied an affordability calculation, which showed he could 
sustain a monthly payment of up to £637 a month.
Moneybarn have provided copies of the payslips they used to verify Mr Rs income, which 
they said averaged £2,547 a month. While this is the case, the November 2017 payslip 
included a large amount of weekend overtime pay, which didnt appear on the December 
2017 payslip. However, when looking at the year-to-date income information on the payslips, 
this indicated that Mr R received around £5,000 a year overtime. 
As such, while the investigator considered differently, Im satisfied it was reasonable to 
consider the November 2017 overtime when calculating Mr Rs income. 
However, Moneybarn havent provided a copy of the credit file they considered when looking 
at Mr Rs application. As such, I cant be satisfied that all the checks they carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate. Therefore, Ive gone on to consider what Moneybarn would 
likely have found had reasonable and proportionate checks been carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Mr R has provided an up-to-date copy of his credit report. As this also shows historic data, 
Im satisfied this will give a good indication of what Moneybarn wouldve seen on the credit 
file they obtained when they considered his finance application.
This report shows that Mr Rs bank account was conducted within any overdraft limit, and 
that his current credit commitments were all paid on time, with no arrears. It also showed 
that Mr R was regularly using payday loans.
The credit report also showed that Mr R had four defaults  two in March 2017, one in July 
2017, and one in December 2017. However, as the loan was approved in January 2018, and 
given that credit providers usually update the credit reference agencies monthly; I think its 
highly unlikely that the December 2017 default would show on the credit search Moneybarn 
undertook when approving Mr Rs application for finance.Based on this report, while its clear that Mr R had credit when he applied for finance with 
Moneybarn, he was maintaining all payments and there were no indications of any financial 
difficulties. But Mr R had some recent defaults, and there was some reliance on payday 
loans.
However, I wouldnt have expected Moneybarn to decline this application just because Mr R 
had some recent defaults and payday loans. But I would expect Moneybarn to take these 
into consideration when making their lending decision.
Mr R has also provided copies of his bank statements for the period October 2017 to 
February 2018. While I wouldnt have expected Moneybarn to have asked Mr R for copies of 
these, Im satisfied the statements for October to December 2017 would give a good 
indication of what Moneybarn would likely have taken into consideration had they asked Mr 
R to prove his committed expenditure during that specific period.
The bank statements show that Mr Rs committed household expenditure  rent, council tax, 
utility bills etc.  was £886, with an additional £211 a month for phone, TV, and insurances.
The bank statements show Mr R was making regular payments to his credit commitments, 
including payday loans and to a debt management company (which I understand was 
payments towards his defaulted balances). They also show that Mr R took out a new payday 
loan in December 2017, so Id expect Moneybarn to have taken the payment for this (£190) 
into consideration. However, had they discussed this with Mr R, they would also have found 
that a payday loan he was paying £184 a month to ended in December 2017 (and the bank 
statements hes provided for 2018 confirm this).
As such, Mr Rs regular committed expenditure towards his credit commitments was £760 a 
month, taking his total expenditure to £1,857 a month. Allowing for Mr Rs income including 
overtime, for the reasons already stated, this gave him £690 a month disposable income. 
Which Im satisfied was sufficient to sustainably support Moneybarns payment of £205.
When reviewing the bank statements, Ive also seen that three of Mr Rs direct debits 
couldnt be paid when they were first requested. And it wasnt until they were represented 
that payment was made. But the bank statements also show that, at the times this 
happened, there was also a large amount of discretionary expenditure. So, I dont think the 
unpaid direct debits are an indication that Mr R had insufficient income to support his regular 
committed expenditure.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Im satisfied that, 
had Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then theres no valid 
reason why they wouldnt have found the finance to be sustainably affordable. And its for 
this reason why I wont be asking them to refund all or part of the payments Mr R paid, or of 
any interest and fees he may have been charged.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman