DRN-3246087
The complaint
Mr O and Ms K are complaining about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a 
liability dispute after Mr O made a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Ms K  a named driver on Mr Os car insurance policy  was involved in an 
accident with a third party. Liability for the accident is in dispute. Ms K reported the incident 
to UKI and she says she told UKI that there was CCTV coverage of the area and asked UKI 
to get it.
UKI later contacted them to say the CCTV footage wasnt available as it had been deleted. 
And it said, based on the evidence, it thought Ms K was at fault for the accident. Ms K 
complained UKI hadnt got the CCTV footage and maintained she wasnt at fault. UKI then 
agreed to arrange for a claims investigator to interview Ms K. Following this, UKI agreed to 
defend the claim. It also offered Mr O and Ms K £100 in compensation for not requesting the 
CCTV footage sooner.
Mr O and Ms K referred their complaint to this service and raised the following complaint 
points:
They dont think UKI did enough to recover the CCTV footage;
They think its wrong UKI initially said Ms K was at fault for the accident;
Mr O says its unfair hes had to pay his excess for something that wasnt their fault. Hes 
also unhappy his annual premium has increased because of this;
Mr O thinks UKI has discriminated against him because hes Hungarian and doesnt 
speak English that well
He says hes incurred around £3,000 in costs in having to have all of UKIs 
correspondence translated.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr O and Ms K didnt agree, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I note Mr O and Ms K have raised a number of complaint points about why theyre unhappy 
with what UKI has said. I havent commented on each and every point theyve raised. I dont 
mean any discourtesy by this. I assure all parties that, while I havent commented on 
everything, Ive considered everything all parties have said. In this decision Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key points theyve raised.
Mr O and Ms Ks complaint regarding UKIs attempts to recover the CCTV footage and it 
initially holding Ms K at fault for the accident is being considered under a different complaint 
reference. So Ive not commented on this in this decision.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether UKI has carried out a 
fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
I appreciate Mr O thinks its unfair Ms K is being held at fault for the accident. But, both 
parties  Ms K and the third-party driver  are holding each other at fault. UKI believes 
Ms Ks version of events that the accident occurred because the third party drove through a 
red light. But the third partys insurer continues to hold Ms K at fault and started court 
proceedings to recover the amount its paid out.
Ultimately, a claim has been made on Mr Os insurance policy and UKI has settled it. The 
claim will remain considered settled until such time as UKI can recover its outlay. This will 
happen if the third partys insurer concedes liability for the accident or is required to settle 
the claim by court order. Ultimately, at the point Mr O and Ms K referred the complaint to this 
service, UKI hadnt been able to recover its outlay. I recognise Mr O thinks this is unfair, but 
UKI has defended and continues to defend the claim. Mr O is in the position hes in because 
the third party hasnt conceded liability and continued to hold Ms K at fault for the accident. I 
cant hold UKI at fault for this.
Ive also thought about Mr Os complaint that he thinks UKI has discriminated against him. 
But I havent seen anything to support this. Im satisfied UKI has handled the claim in the 
way it would have done, regardless of Mr Os nationality. Hes also set out that he struggled 
to communicate with UKI. I can see there was an occasion when he contacted UKIs 
webchat facility and was told they werent able to provide a translator on that facility. But I 
dont think he lost out on that occasion, because he was told hed need to speak with UKI 
directly to resolve his query in any event. 
I note Mr O says hes incurred significant sums of money in having to translate documents. 
But I havent seen enough to support this. However, Ive also not seen anything to show they 
asked UKI to translate the letters it sent them. I can see UKI has offered to provide 
translators at times  such as when Ms K provided her statement regarding the accident. 
Ultimately, while I do not dispute Mr O and Ms K have found the claim process harder 
because English is not their first language, I dont think UKI has treated them unreasonably 
or that theyve lost out because of anything UKI could have done to help them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman