DRN-4519651
The complaint
Miss F has complained that there were delays by Aviva Equity Release UK Limiteds solicitor 
that meant her lifetime mortgage application failed to complete before the mortgage offer 
expired.
What happened
Miss F wanted to buy a new home and she applied for a lifetime mortgage with Aviva 
through an independent mortgage broker. A mortgage offer was issued on 22 September 
2022 which explained that Miss F had until 21 November 2022 to complete the mortgage.
The mortgage didnt complete by the deadline and Miss F complained to Aviva. Aviva didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said its solicitor couldnt open the documents Miss Fs solicitor had 
sent by email, and despite everything that happened it was still in a position to complete 
before the mortgage offer expired.
Miss F referred the complaint to our service and it was looked at by one of our Investigators. 
He didnt think Aviva was responsible for the delays and so didnt ask it to take any further 
action.
Miss F didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Miss F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Weve been provided with timelines from both sides, and regardless of whether Aviva or its 
solicitor was at fault or not, that shows that Miss F had a frustrating experience in trying to 
obtain this lifetime mortgage. She has my sympathy for all the difficulties she experienced.
However, I cant uphold this complaint just because the process was difficult or frustrating for 
Miss F, or because she didnt get a lifetime mortgage at the end of it. I can only uphold this 
complaint if Im satisfied that Aviva (or its solicitor when acting as its agent) did something 
wrong  and Im not persuaded it did.
This is a decision about Aviva so I can only consider its actions (and the actions of its 
solicitor). And just because I dont think Aviva (or its solicitor) was at fault, doesnt mean 
were blaming another party. Sometimes these things are no-ones fault; some applications 
are just unsuccessful due to a combination of factors despite no-one doing anything really 
wrong. 
It's standard for mortgage offers to only be open for a limited period of time and the deadline 
of 21 November 2022 was set out in the offer of 22 September 2022.
I understand Miss Fs solicitor first emailed Avivas solicitor some information on 3 October. 
Avivas solicitor responded on 10 October to say it couldnt open the documents. Miss Fs 
solicitor emailed the documents again on 13 October, with Avivas solicitor responding on 
18 October to say it was still unable to open them. Avivas solicitor said the October emails it 
received from Miss Fs solicitor just contained a link, which it couldnt access, presumably to 
view the documents, rather than the documents being individually attached to the email. This 
was explained to Miss Fs solicitor and to her mortgage broker (via Aviva).
Theres been some confusion about the term data room with it being referred to as a 
format, and Miss Fs solicitor saying they werent sent in that format, they were sent as 
PDFs. A data room isnt a format in itself, it is a way of exchanging documents that is 
recognised in law firms as a way of sharing documents between the relevant parties. Its a 
cloud-based data sharing platform. Documents can be held within the data room in different 
formats, such as PDFs, but rather than the documents being individually attached to an 
email, a link to the data room is sent instead which allows the receiver access to where the 
documents are stored.
Miss F said her solicitor hasnt heard of data rooms and always sent the documents as PDF 
documents but that isnt how they appear to have been received by Avivas solicitor. I dont 
know what went wrong, and I dont need to know to fairly decide this case as all I need to 
know is that Avivas solicitor was unable to open the documents that were sent in October 
and that it notified Miss Fs solicitor of that.
Whilst Miss F has sent us numerous emails between her, her solicitor, her mortgage broker 
and Avivas solicitor, the earliest of those is from 19 October so doesnt cover the period in 
question. If the documents had been sent in early October as individual PDF attachments, 
rather than through a data room information sharing system, that would have been easy to 
prove by providing us with copies of those earlier emails. That said, even providing the 
emails wouldnt be enough here as even if they had been sent in the correct format, that 
doesnt get us round the issue that Avivas solicitor was unable to open them.
Miss Fs solicitor sent the documents as individual PDF attachments by email on 
1 November, which Avivas solicitor was able to open. At that point matters could progress. I 
can see there was some back and forth between the solicitors, with Miss Fs solicitor saying 
they were awaiting some information from the vendors solicitor. Then on 10 and 11 
November the final documents were provided to Avivas solicitor. 
On 14 November Miss Fs solicitor phoned Avivas solicitor to request completion for 
18 November. Avivas solicitor said it couldnt confirm at that time as it was reviewing the file, 
and in an email to Miss F her solicitor confirmed hed said to Avivas solicitor:
 that we require a completion date of 18 November 2022 or 21 November 2022 unless 
they are able to extend the offer.
I am assured this will be expedited albeit we are advised we will not get a response before 
tomorrow afternoon.
At that time it seems there was still an issue with the search enquiries, but Avivas solicitor 
took a view that it was acceptable to proceed so on 15 November it confirmed completion 
could take place, with Miss Fs solicitor notifying her of that around midday. 
Unfortunately, the vendors of the property Miss F was looking to buy said they werent in a 
position to complete before 9 December and as Aviva wasnt willing to extend the mortgage offer on the same terms, the transaction fell through.
It may be that the time it took Miss F to be ready was a deciding factor in the vendors 
decision to want completion on 9 December, but we cant say that for sure. It may be they 
never intended on completing before Miss Fs mortgage offer expired. I can see in a timeline 
Miss F provided to our service with her complaint form that she said:
11th Nov. I received an email from [Miss Fs solicitor] I have just received an email from 
the Sellers Solicitors advising of a completion date 30 November 2022. I advised I would 
take instructions but that we are waiting on our Lenders Solicitors.... I do note however that 
your offer expires 21 November 2022 so if we are to agree this date it will need to be 
extended. Please could you speak to the Mortgage advisor?... Please would you kindly 
confirm the date is agreed and I will let them know and chase Aviva Solicitors again. A 
completion date of 30th Nov. was suggested from Aviva solicitors this I found confusing. 
Why did [Avivas solicitor] ask for a completion date after the deadline date of 21st Nov?
From this we can see as early as 11 November the vendor of the property said they wanted 
to complete on 30 November, which was after Miss Fs mortgage offer expired. Miss Fs 
solicitor asked her to speak to her mortgage broker to see if an extension was possible 
(which it wasnt). To be clear, from the wording Miss F has provided, it was the sellers of the 
property that raised the 30 November as a completion date, not Aviva or its solicitor. Ive not 
checked the email myself as it wasnt included amongst the emails Miss F provided to our 
Investigator, but Ive no reason to think she misquoted it in the original timeline.
I can also see from the email trails that Miss F sent an email to her solicitor on 21 October 
which said:
I received an update from [the estate agent] to say [the vendors solicitor] is still waiting for 
the searches and they will be ready 3rd of November. Is there anything you can do to 
chase their solicitors.
Putting all this together, along with the emails Miss F provided to our Investigator, we can 
see that as early as 21 October the vendors solicitor said they wouldnt have the searches 
until 3 November, and once those were provided at the start of November there were further 
enquiries passing between Miss Fs solicitor and the vendors solicitor (as is normal in 
purchase transactions). Then on 11 November the vendors solicitor asked for a completion 
date of 30 November. None of this was linked to the delay due to Avivas solicitor being 
unable to open the documents in October as this was work between Miss Fs solicitor and 
the vendors solicitor, independent of the mortgage lender and its solicitor. It seems, having 
considered everything very carefully, that the vendor wasnt aiming to complete before the 
mortgage offer expired on 21 November.
Finally, I think it is prudent to pick up on a couple of misunderstandings on Miss Fs part. 
Shes said:
There were also questionable requests from [Avivas solicitor] during the process one of 
which asked for a completion date of the 30th  November a date after the deadline date of 
21 Nov. They also requested a signed form from me to confirm I had insured the property I 
was buying. I could not sign this as I was informed that I had no insurable interest in the 
property until a completion was secured.
Ive already dealt with the first point above, in that from Miss Fs timeline it was the property 
vendors solicitor that asked for 30 November, not Avivas solicitor. In respect of the second point, she wasnt being asked to confirm shed insured the property 
before she had an insurable interest; the request from Avivas solicitor for that form said it 
just needed it before completion. That is entirely normal in a purchase transaction as 
building insurance should be in place from exchange of contracts, so Miss F simply needed 
to complete that form once shed exchanged contracts for the purchase and provide it to her 
solicitor so it could provide a copy to Avivas solicitor before completion took place. The 
document is included on the list as it is something that is needed before completion. As I 
said, that is as I would expect to see and Im surprised Miss Fs solicitor hadnt come across 
this before, and thus have been able to reassure her in his emails that it is entirely normal. 
The other point relates to Avivas solicitor saying Reinspection special condition (this may 
relate to the structural engineer report noted as required in the valuation report). We will ask 
our client, however please can you advise if the reinspection has been done and the date if 
know [sic]?
Miss Fs solicitor said in an email to her  it is quite ridiculous that they are asking when 
their own client had the re-inspection completed especially as it was over a month ago. But 
if the request is read in its entirety Avivas solicitor said it would be asking Aviva, however 
also asked if Miss Fs solicitor had any further information. I cant see any grounds for saying 
that is a ridiculous question as surely, due to the urgency of the situation as had been put to 
Avivas solicitor, it makes sense to ask the question of all interested parties at the same time 
to try to obtain the answer. It may be Miss Fs solicitor would have been able to provide a full 
answer sooner than Aviva, and surely it would have been in Miss Fs interests to have 
checked what the reinspection had said as it related to some works undertaken to the 
property she was buying so it may be she (and/or her solicitor) held the information that was 
needed.
I dont think it was unreasonable that Aviva didnt agree to extend the mortgage offer. I do 
understand Miss Fs frustration, but Ive looked at everything that happened, and I dont think 
I can fairly find that Aviva (or its solicitor) is to blame.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman