DRN-2348067
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim under his 
commercial landlords policy.
What happened
Mr H found that water had entered the cellar of a rental property he owned. He contacted 
UKI to make an insurance claim as he thought it was caused by a storm. UKI investigated 
the claim and decided the issue was most likely due to poor workmanship when some 
drainage was installed. UKI declined the claim.
Mr H continued to investigate the cause of water entering the cellar. This included the local 
water company investigating the cause. The water company found an escape of water from 
one of its own pipes, which it repaired. UKI reassessed the claim for the damage to the cellar 
and accepted it.
The claim then took about three years to near completion. Mr H complained to UKI about 
how the claim was handled, including that a sump pump had been installed which required 
an annual service, that UKI hadnt done everything it said it would and that it was trying to 
cash settle the final decoration. He didnt receive a response. So, Mr H complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said UKI had acted reasonably in how it 
had dealt with the claim and that it had dealt with all of the issues that formed part of the 
claim.
As Mr H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
This was clearly a lengthy claim that took a number of years to deal with. So, Ive looked at 
the reasons for this. I should note that there are gaps in the information that Ive been 
provided that mean it isnt always clear exactly what happened at certain stages of the claim.
I understand that the local water company initially thought the issue was with drainage on Mr 
Hs land and that it was only some time later that the water company found a leak, which it 
then repaired. This appears to have been a factor in how long it took for the correct cause of 
the water entering the cellar to be identified and for UKI to accept that the claim was covered 
by the terms of the policy. However, I dont think UKI was responsible for this delay. When 
the water company dealt with the leak, the evidence Ive seen shows UKI then seemed to 
start progressing the claim promptly.
Shortly after UKI accepted the claim, it carried out a survey out at Mr Hs property. This 
identified that the cellar floor was dropping. Another company was then appointed to carry 
out a technical report. Following this, UKI then told the surveyor that the report had been 
accepted and procurement could commence.
Around this time, the local council was also contacted. The property was a listed building, so 
the works had to be agreed by the local council conservation officer. I can see it took about 
nine months to get the proposed works signed off by the council. As part of this, some of the 
proposed work had to be changed at the request of the conservation officer. Mr H seemed to 
be copied into a number of the email discussions, so I think he was aware of the issues that 
arose and the requirement for UKI to carry out the repairs in the way that the council 
required. I havent seen any evidence that suggested to me that the amount of time it took to 
get consent was because of the actions of UKI.
On the same day that the council confirmed consent for the works, I can see that the 
contractor progressing the claim for UKI sent an email to Mr H and a range of contractors to 
confirm this. The email also explained the next steps required to progress the claim and 
asked the relevant contractors to start work on each of these. This also outlined a timeline 
for completing the works, which was expected to be about three months. So, I think that UKI 
took prompt action to progress the claim once consent was received and that Mr H was 
made aware of this.
Mr H then sent an email saying he thought the timescales for the work were too long and 
that it could be done more quickly. Ive read the reply to that email, which explained why it 
couldnt be done any quicker. I think that explained why those timescales were given and 
that the work couldnt be completed any sooner.
However, there were then a number of issues with carrying out the repairs, which meant that 
the work took significantly longer than the timescales outlined. So, Ive looked at the reasons 
for this. 
Ive seen an email sent by a contractor to Mr H explaining that there would need to be a 
revised programme of works and that there were delays caused during the excavation. This 
said:
 previous discussions have suggested that delays have occurred as a result of site 
access and weather conditions with excavated materials being transferred from within the 
basement up through the house and to the parking area at the rear of the
Property  I am aware that the contractor had to move some contents from the basement 
including a stack of bricks that had been moved up to the rear garden.
The contractor has had to accommodate and overcome issues relating to
excavation including removal of water to permit the installation of the pump chamber ready 
for [a contractor] to complete their works.
During excavation for the pump chamber, the contractor found that they had
reached the water table meaning that a temporary pump had to be installed to facilitate 
works.
Further discussions took place to ensure that the specification was in order following 
excavation of the sub floor before [a contractor] commenced works that have now been 
completed.
In the email, Mr H was also invited to attend a site meeting to discuss the remaining works.So, I think there were a range of issues with being able to progress the works, including the 
issues with the excavations and the water table. Ive thought about this. Given the issues 
identified during the excavation, I cant see that UKI had any option but to deal with them 
before the works could continue. I havent seen anything to suggest that UKI took an 
unreasonable amount of time to do this.
When the excavations were complete, the cellar floor was then installed. Mr H had originally 
been told the floor would take up to seven weeks to cure. However, it
seemed to take about three months to cure. It was only then that the tiles could be laid. This 
was longer than the seven weeks that had originally been suggested for this part of the 
repair. UKI explained that the floor needed to acclimatise and that how quickly this happened 
depended on the specific conditions of the floor. Im also aware that UKI installed 
dehumidifiers to try and help the curing process.
I can see this prolonged an already lengthy claim for Mr H, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the amount of time it took the floor to cure was down to something that UKI did 
wrong or failed to do. UKI installed dehumidifiers to try and speed up the process and 
agreed to pay for the additional cost of running them when Mr H requested this.
There then seem to have been issues with Mr H identifying a floor tile that met both his 
requirements and were compatible with the type of floor that had been installed. This 
included UKI offering alternatives to try and find a suitable floor. This seems to have 
contributed to the delay with the floor being installed. But I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
offer alternatives to try and address Mr Hs concerns and to install a suitable floor.
Ive also looked at whether it was reasonable for UKI to offer a cash settlement for the final 
decoration to be carried out. During the claim, Mr H found some damp on the first floor of his 
home. When UKI investigated this, it identified that the issue was a longstanding problem 
unrelated to the claim. This damp was on a wall that UKI had agreed to decorate as part of 
the claim. As it had concluded that the damp wasnt its responsibility, it offered to cash settle 
this part of the claim to allow Mr H time to deal with the damp issue as UKI didnt think the 
decorating would last without the damp being dealt with first. Ive looked at the UKI 
surveyors report and, on the basis of this, I think it was reasonable for UKI to decide that the 
first-floor damp didnt form part of the claim. So, I think it was reasonable for UKI to offer to 
cash settle that part of the claim so that Mr H was able to get the damp dealt with himself 
and for him then to arrange for the decoration to be carried out.
Mr H has also said that UKI agreed to strip the paint from an external wall as this would 
improve breathability and then didnt do so. Ive looked at what happened. It seems that it 
was suggested when UKI was still trying to identify the reason for the damp on the first floor. 
However, it was then identified that the cause of that damp wasnt related to the claim. So, 
UKI decided that it wasnt necessary to strip that wall as part of the claim. In the 
circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
Mr H said that UKI also told him that it would pay to replace the stones on his driveway 
because lorries working for the insurer had damaged them. Mr H said that he had an email 
from UKI saying this. However, he hasnt been able to provide this. UKI said that it didnt tell 
Mr H this but that it had suggested scattering any disturbed stones would be sufficient. UKI 
has said that its surveyor did discuss the driveway stones with Mr H but didnt make any 
commitment to replace the driveway. 
Ive also seen photos of the driveway. I think its difficult to assess the condition of the drive 
from those photos and I havent seen an expert assessment of the drive to show that UKI 
was responsible for any damage to it. So, based on the information available to me, I havent 
seen evidence that persuades me that UKI said it would replace the driveway or that it caused damage which meant it should do so. As a result, I think it was reasonable that UKI 
didnt replace the driveway. 
Mr H also complained that a sump pump was installed and that he now had the additional 
expense of paying for its annual service. Ive seen emails that were sent to Mr H that 
included discussion of the need to install a sump pump. Ive also read the report from the 
company that put together the waterproofing proposal, which included the installation of the 
pump. This described the pump maintenance as optional. UKI has also said that Mr H was 
under no obligation to carry out an annual service on the pump. So, I dont think it was a 
requirement to have an annual service each year.
I understand that Mr H has had problems with the pump since it was installed. So, I can see 
that Mr H might therefore also consider it sensible to carry out an annual service. However, I 
dont think that means that he was required to do so. He does also have the option to raise a 
new complaint with UKI if he thinks it installed a faulty pump. That is a separate issue to 
whether the pump must have an annual service each year though, which based on the 
documents Ive seen isnt a requirement.
So, thinking about all of the above. I can understand that Mr H was unhappy that the claim 
took as long as it did to resolve. There seem to have been a range of issues with 
progressing the claim, such as the local council requirements and the issues with the floor 
curing. But, I havent seen anything that persuades me that UKI was responsible for the 
delays in the claim. At each stage, UKI seemed to take steps to address issues and to try 
and progress the claim. I also havent seen anything to show that UKI agreed to replace the 
driveway stones or that Mr H was required to maintain the sump pump. I also dont think UKI 
was obliged to strip the external paint, as it identified that the source of that issue didnt form 
part of the claim. As a result, I also think it was reasonable that UKI offered a cash 
settlement for the internal decoration, as this allowed Mr H to deal with the damp issue 
before the decorating was carried out.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman