DRN-3947500
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice he was given by Tenet Group Limited, referred to as the 
business or Tenet.  
In short, he says:
Hes concerned about the commission the adviser received. 
He shouldve been advised to setup a Personal Injury Trust (referred to as PIT or 
the Trust), the business failing to do so is bad advice. 
What happened
In 1998, Mr G was advised to invest a large sum of money into a with-profits bond. I 
understand that the source of the money was from a compensation payment he received 
following an accident he had in the early-90s. 
Hes now concerned that a PIT wasnt set up, that wouldve allowed him in due course to 
claim means tested benefits. Mr G says that the adviser was morally obliged to advise him 
not to invest and direct him to go elsewhere. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think the first part of the 
complaint was in jurisdiction, because Mr G knew, or ought reasonably to have known, he 
had cause for complaint in 2007when he discovered documentation that made clear the 
commission. However, he thought that the second part of the complaint in respect of the PIT 
was in jurisdiction, but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
In order to simplify matters and avoid any potential confusion, I separated the complaint. I 
have already dealt the first complaint point regarding the commission by way of a jurisdiction 
(out) decision. In other words, I found that the complaint point about the commission wasnt 
something that we could consider because it had been made out of time.  
I have also (in part) dealt with the second complaint point by way of a jurisdiction (in) 
decision. Therefore, this decision will consider whether or not the business has provided 
unsuitable investment advice. In other words, whether or not the business did anything 
wrong by not advising Mr G to set up a PIT.  
One of our investigators considered the second part of the complaint but didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary, he said the complaint in relation to the Trust issue ought not to be 
upheld because:
oIn this instance the PIT isnt something that the financial adviser wouldve 
advised on or set up. 
oMr G only sought financial advice. The financial advisers role was to advise 
on issues that he was authorised to advise on. There was no specific request 
for the adviser to consider social security issues. 
oThe Trust is a legal arrangement and one that requires a solicitor to set up.  
oDuring his personal injury claim Mr G was assisted by his solicitor over a 
number of years until settlement. Therefore, it wouldve been the solicitors 
responsibility to discuss the issue and set up the Trust if necessary, as they 
had the expertise and means to do so. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. During 
a call with the investigator, in brief, he made the following key point relating to merits:
He found legal correspondence from his solicitor dated 1997/1998, but theres no 
mention of up the Trust issue within the documentation. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and on balance, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the 
same reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the business 
behaved unreasonably such that the complaint should be upheld. In other words, and on 
balance, I dont think the recommendation to invest in a bond was unsuitable. I also dont 
think the business was wrong not to advise Mr G to setup the Trust, for which a solicitor is 
usually responsible  and not doing so, doesnt render the advice to invest in the bond 
unsuitable.  
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mr Gs strength of feeling 
about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr G and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im aware that expert help and advice on all aspects of creating and managing a trust in this 
instance would usually be undertaken by a solicitor - including whether a PIT is the right 
option, who to appoint as trustee(s), what to do to set up a trust bank account and what 
benefits a person would be entitled to. These arent issues that would generally be dealt with 
by a financial adviser. 
Im not suggesting that a financial adviser can never advise a client to consider setting up a 
trust  I dont think thats what the investigator was suggesting either. Rather that the 
adviser was unlikely to have expertise on the point, which I dont think is unreasonable or 
inaccurate. 
Im conscious that there are different types of trusts  such as discretionary trusts or 
discounted gift trusts  that a financial adviser can (potentially) recommend a client to 
consider. However, a financial adviser isnt generally responsible for setting up a trust  that usually requires a lawyer and or an accountant  so in this instance the business has done 
nothing wrong by not attempting to do so.    
Given the nature of Mr Gs complaint, on balance, I dont think the adviser was wrong not to 
advise him to set up a PIT. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr G, other than wanting to 
simply invest his money, had any interest in setting up a trust of any kind. 
Based on what the business says, on balance it seems the adviser did what he was 
instructed to do. In other words, advise on investing the money in a bond, and not a PIT 
because the latter wasnt something that Mr G was interested in. On balance, its likely Mr G 
just wanted to invest his money and also have access to it.  
Based on what the parties say it seems Mr G had been claiming benefits, which were means 
tested since 1991. I also note he was possibly working for a bit but then stopped in 2004. I 
note he now says he couldnt claim benefits thereafter, as it was means tested and the bond 
exceeded the limits. 
I note the business has made clear that: The Fact Find in March 1999 confirms the means-
tested benefits had ceased by that time, and we feel it would be reasonable that the 
customer would have questioned whether the receipt of the funds and his benefits ceasing 
were linked. 
I note under Section 2: Income and Expenditure, in response to the question Have there 
been any changes in your income or regular outgoings? The Yes box was ticked, and the 
following details noted: DSS DISABILITY ALLOWANCE STOPPED. So, despite what Mr G 
now says, on balance it doesnt seem like he was particularly concerned about claiming 
benefits at the time.
Despite being represented by a personal injury solicitor  during the claim that lasted a 
number of years before it was settled - and despite Mr G appointing Mr H (his solicitor  
name anonymised) from 1996 to help co-ordinate and advise on my personal affairs Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr G was ever interested in setting up a PIT with his solicitors, or that 
it was even discussed as an option by them. I note Mr G recently confirmed that there was 
no mention of it in the legal correspondence dated 1997/98 but thats not something I can 
blame the business for. 
Whilst I cant say exactly what was, or wasnt, discussed, given what Ive said above for the 
purposes of merits I would expect the solicitor to have considered the issue and if he didnt 
(its arguable that he didnt) its not something I can blame the business for.    
Without the benefit of hindsight, its impossible to know if Mr G wouldve been better off, 
overall, investing in something else or setting up the Trust which I appreciate were options. 
In any event, not doing so in this instance I dont think means that the recommendation to 
invest in the bond was unsuitable given his circumstances and objective for lump sum 
investment for growth. 
I appreciate that Mr G will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman