DRN-3736149
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service he received from One Call Insurance Services 
Limited (OCISL) when he bought a car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought a car insurance policy with the broker OCISL in October 2021 online through a 
comparison website. 
Mr D says the policy was due to start the following day, but he didnt receive the documents 
online until the day after that. On review of the documents, he said he noticed his occupation 
wasnt correct. 
Mr D contacted OCISL through its online webchat facility. OCISL said Mr D must have made 
an error when providing his occupation, which Mr D didnt accept. In order to change Mr Ds 
occupation to his correct one, OCISL said it would cost £15.96. 
Mr D was unhappy about this and so he cancelled his policy. Mr D raised a complaint with 
OCISL. He was unhappy with the way the agent had dealt with his query on the webchat and 
how long it had taken to agree the cancellation of the policy. Mr D said OCISL hadnt alerted 
him to the fact that some of the additional cover under his policy would be insured by a 
separate insurer to the main car insurance policy before he bought the policy. Mr D 
maintained that he didnt make an error when submitting his occupation.
OCISL upheld Mr Ds complaint in part. It acknowledged that the agent hadnt provided 
correct information during the webchat - and had provided a service well below standard. 
Although OCISL was entitled to charge a set-up fee of £49.99 on cancellation, it waived this 
and paid Mr D £50 compensation for the poor service he received. 
OCISL said Mr D had the opportunity to view the documents online showing the insurers for 
the additional cover hed purchased before he bought the policy. So it didnt agree it had 
done anything wrong here. It said it received details of Mr Ds occupation from the 
comparison website as the one listed on his documents. So it didnt accept it was 
responsible for any error in the recording of Mr Ds occupation. 
Mr D remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He provided a video 
recording of an online journey which he says shows OCISL doesnt provide the documents 
showing the insurers as it described. Mr D believes the error in the occupation recording 
wasnt his. He wants an acknowledgement that he made no errors when applying for the 
policy. 
Mr D said the compensation of £50 and the waiving of the set-up fee isnt enough to resolve 
his complaint. He said hed had to spend around three hours on webchat with OCISL. He 
said he was forced to go back to his previous insurer in order to remain insured and this was 
at an extra cost. Mr D said he is particular about who he buys insurance with and this is why 
it was important to him to know the insurer(s) before he bought a policy.
Our Investigator thought OCISL had caused errors. But she thought it had done enough to 
resolve Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree. In summary he says he carried out extensive research before deciding to 
buy a policy through OCISL due to the level of cover he wanted, the price and the insurer. 
He says he couldnt afford further time reviewing the market for a replacement policy while 
effectively uninsured - which is why he insured with his previous insurer. Mr D says if he had 
decided to change insurer within the 14 day cooling off period - contrary to the Investigators 
opinion - he could not have cancelled without charge. 
Mr D says because it wasnt made clear there was more than one insurer involved before 
buying his policy, OCISL mis-sold the policy to him. Mr D says some legal expenses insurers 
have a wait time before a claim can be made, and so this should be taken into consideration 
as an additional impact of OCISLs actions. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what happened, what the impact was and what a 
business did to put things right. 
Theres no dispute that the handling of the webchat by OCISL was poor. The agent should 
have taken steps to resolve the issue sooner and acted on Mr Ds instruction to cancel the 
policy and raised a complaint. 
Ive reviewed the video Mr D provided showing an online journey. Its of poor quality and Im 
unable to read most of what shows on the screens Mr D has recorded from. Its also not 
evidential as to when this was recorded. So it doesnt prove that Mr D put the correct 
occupation in when he applied for the policy.
I cannot be sure if during Mr Ds online journey he was able to view the policy documents 
identifying the insurers for each part of his motor policy. But in response to Mr Ds complaint, 
One Call provided screenshots of the policy documents as PDFs for Mr D to access before 
proceeding to buy the policy. Its not clear enough for me to safely conclude that an error in 
the recording of Mr Ds occupation was made either by the comparison website or OCISL.. 
So I cant say that OCISLs request for an additional premium on behalf of the insurer for a 
change in occupation was unreasonable. It therefore follows that OCISLs decision to charge 
Mr D a set-up fee of £49.99 seemed fair as in line with the terms and conditions Mr D agreed 
to before buying the policy. So Ive taken into account the fact that as well as paying £50 
compensation, OCISL waived the set-up fee which it was entitled to charge. 
Ive no doubt that the experience caused Mr D some unnecessary inconvenience and 
frustration. And I understand that it matters to Mr D as to who the insurer is and the type of 
cover he buys when he carries out his research at renewal time. I think OCISL made some 
errors, but I havent seen enough to show that OCISL hasnt done to resolve Mr Ds 
complaint. The overall compensation it paid is in line with awards we make for similar 
circumstances - and I think is enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
poor service to him. 
I understand Mr D will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman