DRN-4148203
The complaint
Ms B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Ms B had one loan from Sainsburys in August 2015 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 19 Aug 2015 £15,000 84m £239.37 19 Aug 2022 Sold to DCA*
* Debt Collection Agency
Ms B says she does not believe Sainsburys carried out sufficient checks before agreeing to 
the lending. She says it also continued to charge interest after she requested the account to 
be frozen due to personal circumstances. Ms B adds that shes suffered physical and mental 
ill-health and her stress levels have been very high.
Sainsburys initially objected to this service looking at the merits of Ms Bs complaint as 
shed complained more than six years after shed taken out the loan and therefore, it said, it 
was out of jurisdiction. However, an ombudsman has now considered this objection and has 
decided it is a complaint this service can consider.
Sainsburys says it looked at the information provided by Ms B alongside a credit check and 
its own criteria before approving the loan. It says it was satisfied appropriate checks were 
carried out and that Ms B agreed to the payments when signing the loan agreement. 
Sainsburys acknowledges that the account fell into arrears in November 2019 and said 
Ms B advised these would be repaid by the end of May 2020. It says that, when this did not 
happen, the account was defaulted and passed to a debt collection agency.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He did not consider 
Sainsburys carried out proportionate checks but was satisfied that, based on the available 
information, proportionate checks would not have shown the loan was unaffordable to Ms B.
Ms B responded to say, in summary, that, Sainsburys had a legal responsibility to carry out 
certain checks and it failed to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Bs case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did Sainsburys complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Bs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Sainsburys make a fair lending decision?
Did Sainsburys act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As the loan was taken out almost eight years ago, Sainsburys has limited information about 
the affordability checks it carried out at the time. It says:
The loan was for home improvements;
Ms B was divorced with four dependants;
She declared her income to be around £5,469 per month;
It recorded her mortgage payment as £1,005 per month;
The credit check showed over £29,000 of unsecured debt with monthly repayments 
of £931;
There was no adverse information on Ms Bs credit file;
It estimated her regular expenditure to be £400 per month.
As the loan was for seven years, and Sainsburys needed to be sure the repayments were 
sustainable for that period, I consider proportionate checks should have included, as a 
minimum, a verification of Ms Bs income and confirmation of her housing and credit 
commitments. Sainsburys has been unable to provide the detail of any checks it carried out, 
so Ive had a look at Ms Bs bank statements from the time to ascertain what proportionate 
checks were likely to have shown:
Ms Bs income was slightly higher than the figure shed declared;
Her mortgage payments were £1,044;
Ms Bs monthly credit commitments appeared to be slightly lower than the £931 
calculated by Sainsburys;
Taking this into account, including the loan repayment of £239, Ms B was left with over 
£3,000 per month with which she would need to pay her regular bills. Having again 
considered what the bank statements show, Im satisfied the loan was sustainably 
affordable, alongside all Ms Bs other regular commitments.
So, I find Sainsburys made a fair lending decision.
I acknowledge that Ms B says Sainsburys had a legal responsibility to carry out certain 
checks but that isnt the case. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator 
when Sainsburys lent to Ms B. Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Sainsburys 
needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. But there were no set checks that a lender was required to carry out.
Ive also considered whether Sainsburys acted unfairly in any other way as I note that Ms B 
does not feel it responded appropriately to her financial difficulties. I can see Ms Bs loan 
account first went into arrears in November 2019 and Ms B told Sainsburys this was due to 
looking after her mother who was ill at the time. Shortly afterwards, Ms B told Sainsburys 
that she had been furloughed at work due to the pandemic but was due to receive a grant 
with which she would repay the arrears in May 2020.  I can see Sainsburys refunded the 
fees it charged for the missed payments and allowed her more time to make the payments. 
However, when it had received no repayments by July 2020, Sainsburys defaulted the loan 
and sold the account to a debt collection agency. I cant conclude that Sainsburys acted 
unfairly in that respect.
In summary, I dont find the lending was irresponsible, although I do sympathise with the 
series of difficult situations in which Ms B found herself from 2016 onwards. I understand 
Ms B will find my decision disappointing, especially after everything she has been through, 
but I cant conclude Sainsburys has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman