DRN-3140430
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited cancelled his car insurance 
policy through no fault of his own.
All references in this decision to Skyfire include its appointed administrative agents.  
What happened
Mr B applied for the policy via a comparison website in early May 2020 that was due to start 
the following day. He bought the policy to cover a car he was buying from a family member 
after replying Yes when asked Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal 
owner?.
Around a month later, Skyfire asked Mr B for further details because it became aware that 
hed obtained a number of quotes using different details before buying the policy that he did. 
Over the course of the following weeks and months, Skyfire chased Mr B for the information 
it wanted, at various stages warning him that it would cancel the policy if he didnt provide 
the information it wanted. 
At the end of August 2020, Skyfire cancelled the policy on the grounds Mr B had been 
careless in misrepresenting the facts when he answered the above question. It believed 
Mr B hadnt intended to become the registered keeper and owner of the car when he bought 
the policy and only answered as he did because he was unable to obtain cover when 
answering No to the same question. Skyfire said its underwriting criteria meant he wouldnt 
have been able to take out the policy had he explained at the outset that his family member 
would remain as the registered keeper and owner.
Skyfire accepted it had incorrectly advised Mr B in one of its calls with him when it said the 
policy could continue even if his family member (and not Mr B) remained the cars registered 
keeper and owner. As compensation for the effects of the error, it offered to pay him £75.
Mr B eventually brought a complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. The investigator was persuaded that the 
information relating to the cars registered keep and owner had been misrepresented to 
Skyfire as it had alleged. They felt it had acted fairly in cancelling the policy and providing a 
premium refund to Mr B (less an administration fee). 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He accepted he obtained quotes using 
different details but that this was because he didnt yet own the car. He said he obtained a 
quote with the correct details once hed decided to buy the car a short time later. Mr B also 
accepted he hadnt registered the car in his name straightaway because hed forgotten to do 
so, partly due to his poor mental health. Mr B said he did eventually send off the registration 
documents only for them to get lost in the post. He then registered the car in his name online 
on becoming aware he could do so. He maintained that he answered Skyfires question 
correctly and truthfully and said he didnt want compensation  he just wanted to be able to 
avoid having to tell other insurers hed had a policy cancelled.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh. I considered the complaint and issued my provisional decision in October 
2021. In it, I explained why I intended to uphold the complaint. Essentially, I thought that 
Mr B hadnt misrepresented the information in question but rather had asked the question he 
was posed correctly. I asked Skyfire to remove any adverse entries on any fraud or internal 
databases regarding the unfair cancellation of the policy and to provide written confirmation, 
should Mr B require it, that his policy was cancelled unfairly. I also asked it to pay Mr B £100 
 in addition to the £75 it had already offered him  as compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience its errors had caused him.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Mr B agreed 
with my decision.
Skyfire maintained that there had been a misrepresentation and that it had dealt with it 
correctly in line with the policy terms and conditions. It pointed to the fact that Mr B had tried 
to obtain a quote having (in its view) correctly declared that he wasnt the registered owner 
keeper before changing his answer in order to secure cover.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and after taking account of the responses to my provisional decision, Ive 
decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) potentially 
applies where a consumer answers one or more questions incorrectly in buying or renewing 
an insurance policy.
Where thats been established, its important to go on and consider, for example, what type 
of misrepresentation was made and what the insurer would have done with the application 
had there been no misrepresentation.
In my view, Mr Bs complaint largely boils down to whether that first requirements been met 
 that is, whether he answered the relevant question incorrectly. If I find that it was answered 
correctly, then theres no need for me to consider the other aspects of CIDRA Ive 
mentioned.
Given the importance of the question Mr B was asked in taking out the policy, I think it useful 
to set it out again below:
Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner?
Mr B answered Yes.
In the light of the context in which the policy was taken, and of the wording of the question 
itself, I think it would be reasonable to have replied as Mr B did in at least two scenarios. The 
first is if Mr B was already the registered keeper and legal owner of the car at the time of 
answering. Both parties accept that wasnt the case and that Mr B wasnt the registered 
keeper and legal owner at that time.
The second scenario in which I believe it would be reasonable to answer the question in the 
positive is where Mr B wasnt yet the registered keeper and legal owner of the car but that he 
would be. I dont think its contentious to say that there was a considerable delay between Mr B taking 
out the policy at the start of May 2020 and in him being confirmed by the relevant authority 
as the new keeper of the car in late August 2020. So, putting to one side for a moment how 
long it took and why, Mr B did become the registered keeper  and apparently legal owner  
of the car.
The question doesnt put any time limits on when Mr B had to have become the registered 
keeper and legal owner. The only requirement in that regard seemingly was that he should 
do so at some point in time. I think if Skyfire required for that to happen within a certain 
length of time it could have been more specific in asking that. But it wasnt. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to have answered as he did. Its common for 
people to obtain quotes for, or to buy, car insurance before theyve become the registered 
keeper and legal owner. Becoming a legal owner can occur quite quickly depending on the 
circumstances of the sale. But registering to become the keeper of a car must be processed 
by the relevant authority and can take weeks or even months depending on when and how 
its done.
Mr Bs car registration application was made and processed during the COVID-19 pandemic, 
during which time the relevant authority accepts that caused, and is still causing, ongoing 
processing delays with processing paper applications (quote from the authoritys website).
When Mr B became aware he could also apply online, he did so and was ultimately 
confirmed as the new keeper of the car. Hes provided evidence showing that.
Because I dont believe Mr B answered the relevant question incorrectly, I dont believe there 
was any misrepresentation despite what Skyfires said previously and more recently. It 
follows that I dont think Skyfire was entitled to cancel the policy.    
I also believe Skyfires actions have had a negative impact on Mr B. He went to some trouble 
to challenge Skyfires decision, making numerous calls and sending messages and emails. I 
understand Mr B wasnt in good health and that dealing with this hasnt helped. Hes also 
been caused unnecessary worry in terms of securing insurance elsewhere following its 
cancellation of the policy. I think Skyfire should pay Mr B £100 as compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused by its handling of the matter and the consequences for him 
that followed. Thats in addition to the £75 it had already offered him.  
Putting things right
Skyfire should: 
Remove any adverse entries it might have placed on any internal or external 
databases in relation to Mr B and the policy and treat the latter as though it wasnt 
cancelled due to misrepresentation. If Mr B needs supporting evidence from Skyfire 
regarding its unfair cancellation of the policy in order to help him secure insurance 
going forward, Skyfire should provide it; and
Pay Mr B £100 as compensation for the upset and inconvenience its actions have 
caused him, in addition to its existing offer of £75 made in relation to other errors.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
to put things right for Mr B as explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman