DRN-2783508
The complaint
Mrs F complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Nationwide Building Society, trading as Portman Building Society(Nationwide).
What happened
Mrs F took out the PPI with a mortgage in 2004. She said she applied for the mortgage 
during a meeting in a branch of the building society, and was advised to take the PPI  and 
indeed wasnt given a choice about taking it. Nationwide couldnt confirm whether the sale 
took place during a meeting, but said that it would not have offered advice about the PPI.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs F at a monthly cost 
of £27.50. The monthly benefit was £500.00. If she had made a successful claim, the policy 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Nationwide disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and didnt propose to uphold 
this complaint. Neither Mrs F nor Nationwide sent in a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs F said the PPI was sold during a meeting. Nationwide said it couldnt confirm the sales 
channel, but I think its reasonable to take it as having been sold in a branch as Mrs F told 
us. 
Nationwide couldnt provide copies of any documentation from Mrs Fs sale, although this is 
not surprising as the mortgage was repaid in 2005, and businesses are not required to keep 
records indefinitely. However, it was able to send us a copy of some computer records of 
Mrs Fs mortgage account (and the PPI). I can see that the policy started shortly after the 
mortgage, and was cancelled in 2005. 
In the absence of any documentation from the sale, we asked Nationwide for a sample copy 
of the mortgage application form that would have been in use at the time, to give us some 
indication of how the PPI wouldve been presented to Mrs F. Unfortunately, Nationwide said 
it could not provide this. However, after our adjudicator issued her assessment, Nationwide 
was able to send in a sample mortgage application form from 2004, and I have taken this 
into account in reaching my decision. 
The application form shows a section headed Protecting your Repayments with Mortgage 
Care, in which there was a brief description of the cover, along with the different options for 
the level of cover required and the premiums per £100 of benefit for each type. Theres a 
reference to a separate document giving further details of the cover. And there are yes and 
no tick boxes for the applicant to say whether or not they wanted PPI. So theres nothing on 
the form to say that Mrs F didnt have a choice about the PPI. 
I accept that I cant know how the salesperson presented the PPI during the meeting, and 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs F said. But overall, I dont think I can fairly say its most 
likely that the PPI was presented as compulsory, which is what Id have to do to be able to 
uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what 
happened. 
Nationwide and Mrs F disagreed about whether the policy had been recommended for Mrs 
F. However, this doesnt affect my decision, because if I consider this complaint on the basis 
that Nationwide advised Mrs F to take out the policy  which would hold it to a higher 
standard in that it shouldve made sure it was suitable for her  I think it was a reasonable 
recommendation to make. 
As Ive said, I cant know how the salesperson explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mrs F wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear how 
the exact cost of the PPI was explained to Mrs F, although the cost per £100 benefit was 
shown on the mortgage application and I dont think shed have agreed to take it without 
some idea of the cost for her. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was 
unaffordable for her.
Mrs F said that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of 12 months pay, 
although she didnt say whether it would all have been at her full pay rate (in my experience 
that wouldve been unusual). Mrs F also said she wouldve received a redundancy payment 
if shed lost her job - but didnt say how much this wouldve amounted to  but didnt have 
any savings she couldve relied on. 
Taking all this into account, I think Mrs F couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage 
payments if shed had a lengthy illness or had lost her job. And I think she could reasonably 
have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on her home. 
So on balance, although I cant know whether Nationwide clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mrs F would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if she couldnt work. 
In my provisional decision, I said that this meant I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold, and 
therefore I didnt propose to uphold the complaint. As neither party sent in any new evidence 
or information in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman