DRN-3587753
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr N complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claims and about its service. My 
references to Mapfre include its agents.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs K and Mr N booked a trip abroad with their children from 17 March to 
21 April 2020.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 13 March 2020 Mrs K and Mr N bought an annual travel insurance policy 
providing cover between 13 March 2020 and 12 March 2021. Mapfre was the insurer.
Mrs K and Mr N travelled as planned on 17 March 2020. On that date the Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)(formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the pandemic. 
Mrs K and Mr Ns original return flight for 21 April 2020 was cancelled shortly before they 
were due to return. They booked an alternative fight to the UK for 26 April 2020. The claimed 
on their policy for their losses relating to their enforced extended stay abroad and a medical 
expenses claim for treatment when they were abroad.
Mapfre wouldnt pay the claims. It said the claim for the additional costs due to the extended 
stay wasnt covered as the policy excluded claims relating to known events. Mapfre said 
Mrs K and Mr N had bought the policy on 13 March 2020 after Covid-19 had been declared 
a pandemic and the FCDO had been advising against all but essential travel to a growing 
number of countries. Although the FCDO hadnt advised against all but essential travel to the 
relevant country when Mrs K and Mr N bought the policy it was known that the pandemic 
was likely to cause disruption to travel plans, so it was a known event.
For the medical expenses claim Mapfre wanted to know the exact costs for the claim, which 
it said wasnt clear from the receipt Mrs K and Mr N provided. It said Mrs K and Mr N should 
provide an itemised list of costs and depending on the amount they may need to provide a 
medical report.
Mrs K and Mr N complained to us. They said when they took out the policy they werent told 
they wouldnt be covered for costs relating to the pandemic. They were also unhappy with 
Mapfres delay and poor communication about their claim. 
Our investigator said Mapfre hadnt fairly relied on the known event exclusion to decline the 
extended stay costs claim, but he thought that claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. He 
said Mapfre should assess the claim for medical expenses once Mrs K and Mr N had 
provided the supporting evidence it required. He recommended Mapfre pay Mrs K and Mr N 
£200 compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Mapfre agreed our investigators recommendation. Mrs K and Mr N didnt agree and want an 
ombudsmans decision. They said £200 wasnt enough given their claim of around £2,500 
hadnt been paid. They thought they were fully covered by the policy and theyd had to wait a 
long time before Mapfre agreed to make any payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
There are three parts to Mrs K and Mr Ns complaint  the claim for additional expenses due 
to their extended stay, the medical expenses claim and Mapfres service. 
Claim for additional expenses due to the extended stay
The policy says under the general exclusions section that Mapfre wont cover:
Any claim related to a known event (see Definitions on page 14) that you were 
aware of at the time you took out this insurance and/or prior to the booking of any 
individual trip.
The policy defines known event as:
A known event is an existing or expected publicly announced occurrence, such as a 
named tropical storm, a hurricane or a strike voted upon by union members.
Ive not seen any evidence from the airline about why it cancelled the original return flight but 
from what Mrs K and Mr N have said I think its more likely than not the cancellation was due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mapfre hadnt excluded cover relating to the Covid-19 pandemic at the time Mrs K and Mr N 
bought their policy on 13 March 2020. And if on that date Mapfre considered the pandemic 
to be a known event, and so excluded from cover, it would have been fair for Mapfre to 
have made that very clear at the point of sale of the policy and in the policy documents. Ive 
seen no evidence Mapfre did make that clear. So I dont think the reason Mapfre gave Mrs K 
and Mr N for declining the claim was reasonable.
However, Mrs K and Mr Ns claim is for costs due to their extended stay abroad, so unless 
their policy provides cover for that situation Mapfre doesnt have to pay the claim. Ive 
considered the policy terms. For an additional premium Mrs K and Mr N could have bought 
an optional upgrade to the policy called travel disruption cover. That optional upgrade does 
provide cover for certain costs relating to an extended stay in some circumstances. Their 
insurance certificate shows Mrs K and Mr N did buy some additional options but they didnt 
buy the travel disruption cover option.
Im sympathetic to the circumstances Mrs K and Mr N found themselves in but no travel 
insurance policy covers all risks. Mrs K and Mr Ns policy terms and conditions sets out the 
contract of insurance between them and Mapfre. There is no cover under their policy for the 
costs they incurred due to their enforced stay. That means I cant reasonably say Mapfre 
should pay the claim for those costs.
Claim for medical expenses
Ive seen no evidence that Mapfre declined the claim for medical expenses. It asked Mrs K 
and Mr N for more information about the claim. Its in line with the policy terms and 
reasonable for Mapfre to ask Mrs K and Mr N to provide details of all the medical costs they 
are claiming and they need to provide evidence to support their claim. Once they have 
provided Mapfre with the evidence it requires Mapfre should complete its assessment of the 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. If Mapfre then declines the claim Mrs K 
and Mr N can make a separate complaint to us on that separate matter.Mapfres service 
I think there were some issues with Mapfres service. It took several months for Mapfre to 
decline the extended stay costs claim for a reason which, as Ive explained above, wasnt 
fair. So its understandable that Mrs K and Mr N complained to us about Mapfres decision. 
But its clear that the extended stay costs claim isnt covered by Mrs K and Mr Ns policy and  
Mapfre should have reasonably been able to reach that conclusion when it first assessed the 
claim.
Mapfre has now offered Mrs K and Mr N £200 to compensate for their distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service. Mrs K and Mr N say £200 isnt enough as the 
claim for their extended stay costs wasnt covered. But thats a completely separate matter. 
The claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. The £200 isnt a contribution towards those 
costs. Its a payment specifically to compensate Mrs K and Mr N for their distress and 
inconvenience caused by Mapfres poor service. I think £200 is a reasonable amount.
Putting things right
Mapfre must pay Mrs K and Mr N £200 compensation for their distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service, as its now offered.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay £200 compensation to Mrs K and Mr N for their distress 
and inconvenience due to its poor service, as its now offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman