DRN-4469115
The complaint
Mr P says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans (Bamboo), irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month instalment loan by way of a fixed sum loan agreement. 
Bamboo provided the loan for £6,000 to Mr P in September 2022. The monthly repayments 
were £255.73 and the total repayable was £9,206.25
Mr P says the loan was not affordable, he had issues with gambling and was in difficulty with 
other debt. So he says Bamboos checks ought to have shown it was irresponsible to have 
lent to him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She thought the checks were proportionate
and Bamboo had made a fair lending decision. 
Because Mr P disagreed his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bamboo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Id like to reassure Mr P that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available evidence and information, including what Mr P has said in response to our 
investigators view. Having done so, however, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
The rules dont say exactly what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend, but 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a 
borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan 
payments look to be affordable. A proportionate check might also require the lender to find 
out the borrowers credit history and also take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan
would have been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender should have
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a
sustainable way. In other words, it wouldnt necessarily be enough for Bamboo to simply 
think about the likelihood of it getting its money back. Rather, it also had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr P. It asked for his monthly income and expenditure, employment and residential 
status.
This showed that Mr P was earning around £2,150 net per month and He was also a 
homeowner paying a mortgage of £650 per month with essential monthly expenses costing 
£530. It also checked his credit record and didnt find any recent adverse markings on his 
credit file, such as defaults or county court judgments. There was some historical evidence 
of debt issues but there had been no further problems for around 4  years so I would not 
have necessarily expected Bamboo to take this into consideration at this point. 
From the checks Bamboo carried out it calculated Mr P had existing credit commitments of 
around £170 a month. This was based on the credit check it carried out showing that Mr P 
had around £3,400 in existing debt but appeared to be up to date on all his active credit. 
Also, he had made only £40 in cash withdrawals in the last 12 months and there was no 
suggestion of being behind or overlimit with his credit. 
Bamboo also completed an income verification check with a third-party and used national 
statistics to make an assumption about Mr Ps living costs. It also asked about the purpose 
of the loan which was for debt consolidation. Based on these checks Bamboo thought it was 
fair to lend.
I think these checks were reasonable and proportionate given the value and term of the loan 
and the cost of the monthly repayment relative to Mr Ps income and level of existing debt. 
And I dont think there was anything in the checks that ought to have led Bamboo to make a 
different lending decision. 
Im also mindful that Mr P told Bamboo that he was taking this loan out for consolidation 
purposes. And Mr P was being provided with enough funds to clear all of the debts that 
showed on his credit file. From what Ive seen, Mr P would have been able to afford the 
repayments and would have had an increased monthly disposable income as long as he 
cleared his existing debts. Equally, as this was Mr Ps first loan with Bamboo, Im satisfied 
that it was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr P would settle his existing debts with the 
proceeds from this loan. Also, Bamboo wouldnt be increasing Mr Ps existing indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Mr P has said that his issues with gambling had worsened his overall financial position. Ive 
seen Mr Ps bank statements so have an idea of how he was handling his finances at the 
time. But given obtaining bank statements wasnt the only way further checks into Mr Ps 
circumstances could have been carried out, Im not persuaded that further checks would 
necessarily have highlighted gambling as being a possible reason why Mr P might not have 
been able to make the repayments on this loan. 
To summarise, I dont think Ive seen enough evidence that would have been available to 
Bamboo at the time to suggest it ought to have carried out a more in-depth investigation into 
Mr Ps financial situation.
So I agree that from what Ive seen the proposed monthly repayment of £255.73 was likely 
to have been affordable. It follows that I can see that there wouldnt be a strong reason to 
decline Mr Ps application. So I dont think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Mr P.Finally, I havent seen evidence that Bamboo may have acted unfairly towards Mr P in some 
other way. I note Mr P has an outstanding balance on his loan and that he has been in 
contact with Bamboo about arranging a sustainable repayment of the debt. I take this 
opportunity to remind Bamboo of its obligation to treat Mr P fairly, and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman