DRN-4025251
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled his 
claim for laptop damage under his home insurance.
What happened
Mr B dropped his laptop. It wouldnt turn on, so he contacted RSA to see if he was covered 
under his landlord policy. RSA advised him to contact his home insurer.  
Because of the personal data held on his laptop, Mr B first took it to a local, trusted repairer. 
The repairer provided Mr B with a report stating the cause of the failure was liquid damage 
and the laptop was beyond economical repair (BER). The report also said there was a 
problem with the storage device, so it was passed on to its data recovery department.
Mr B claimed under his home insurance for accidental damage, saying a family member 
mustve spilt a drink on the laptop. RSA appointed its supplier to inspect the laptop, which 
agreed that the damage was caused by liquid spillage. However, because of the varying 
levels of corrosion, RSA didnt think the damage was caused by a one-off incident. RSA 
declined Mr Bs claim for that reason.
RSA also declined Mr Bs claim for the cost of data recovery. Initially it incorrectly stated his 
policy didnt provide cover. However, RSA then explained that because the damage wasn't 
caused by an insured one-off incident, the resulting data recovery costs were excluded. 
Further to this, RSA doubted that the data couldve been recovered.
During the claim investigation, RSA told Mr B that it was voiding his policy for 
misrepresentation. That was because hed originally said the damage was caused when he 
dropped the laptop, later saying it was because of a liquid spill. But RSA accepted that Mr B 
had only found out about the liquid spill after dropping it and taking his laptop for repair. RSA 
reinstated the policy.
Mr B complained to RSA on several occasions throughout the claim process. RSA issued 
final responses to each of the complaints and offered £250 compensation for the way it 
handled the claim. 
However, Mr B was unhappy with RSAs decision and its overall claim handling. He thought 
RSA should pay for the laptop replacement, all data recovery costs, and compensation for 
defamation of character.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said RSAs evidence suggested it had 
declined Mr Bs claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. While there was 
clear evidence of service shortfalls in RSAs handling of Mr Bs claim, our investigator 
thought its offer of £250 compensation was reasonable and in line with the level of award 
wed make in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree because he thought the outcome was biased in favour of RSA. He said the 
liquid spill fell within the definition of accidental damage, and he repeated that RSA should 
accept and settle his claim. Further, Mr B said RSAs compensation offer wasn't enough to 
reflect its mistake in voiding his policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Declined claim
The first issue is that Mr B is unhappy RSA declined his claim for accidental damage.
To uphold this element of Mr Bs complaint, Id have to see evidence that he demonstrated 
to RSA that he suffered an insured loss and that RSA unfairly declined cover.
The claim was for a liquid spill under the accidental damage part of his policy, which is 
defined as:
Unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden and external means.
Mr B originally thought the laptop stopped working because hed dropped it. It was only after 
taking it for repair that the liquid damage was identified. Mr B didnt know exactly when the 
spill had happened.
Ive looked at the reason RSA gave for declining the claim. It said the policy specifically 
excluded cover for, Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including 
deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
Looking at the two professional reports  one provided by Mr Bs repairer and one by RSA  
both agree that there was liquid damage. However, RSAs report concluded that the liquid 
damage wasn't consistent with a one-off incident. That was because the levels of corrosion 
differed, and it was more likely that thered been more than one liquid spill. The photos 
included with the report support RSAs conclusion about the varying levels of corrosion.
Mr Bs report doesnt comment on this.
So, based on the evidence available, Im satisfied that RSA declined Mr Bs claim fairly 
under the policy exclusion for gradually operating causes including corrosion.Data loss
RSA incorrectly told Mr B he wasn't covered for data loss.
The policy states:
We will pay the cost of replacing or restoring your familys personal computer information, 
including digital downloads, following loss or damage caused by anything covered by this 
section. The most we will pay for any one claim is shown in the Summary of limits.
I agree that RSA gave Mr B incorrect information but, to uphold this part of the complaint, Id 
need to see that RSAs mistake caused Mr B a financial loss or inconvenience. 
The data is only covered under the policy if the loss was caused by an insured peril. Ive 
already said RSA declined the liquid damage claim fairly under a policy exclusion, so it 
follows that the resulting data loss isnt covered. Therefore, I dont find that RSAs mistake 
caused any financial loss or inconvenience.
Service shortfalls
Mr B complained about delays, RSAs settlement offer, defamation of character caused by 
its suggestion of misrepresentation, and the level of compensation.
RSA hasnt disputed these matters and the evidence shows it fell short in its claim handling. 
In recognition of this, RSA awarded £250 compensation. I understand Mr B thinks he 
deserves more, but I havent seen evidence to warrant an increase. 
Ive looked at RSAs notification to void Mr Bs policy. I understand the reasons the claim 
was being looked into further, but RSA agreed it issued the letter prematurely. RSA 
reinstated Mr Bs policy promptly on receipt of his complaint, so its unlikely thered be any 
ongoing detrimental effect to Mr B, although I understand he wouldve been upset with its 
correspondence. As RSA put this right, theres nothing for me to require.
While Mr B complained about the settlement RSA offered to begin with, ultimately it declined 
the claim. So, there is no claim settlement. I can see how this wouldve caused 
inconvenience and confusion.
The evidence shows some minor delays which RSA has acknowledged in its final response 
to Mr B, but I dont find its overall handling unduly drawn out. 
RSA awarded Mr B £250 compensation for its premature decision to void the policy, for 
incorrectly telling Mr B he wasn't covered for data removal, and for the delays obtaining file 
notes to support the claim. Ive thought carefully about this. Based on the evidence, I 
wouldnt have awarded more than £250 regardless of RSAs offer. Therefore, Im satisfied 
its a fair and reasonable award and I see no reason to ask RSA to pay any more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman