DRN-3323411
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly decided he was liable for causing 
damage to his neighbours car under his motor policy. He said he never damaged his 
neighbours car.
What happened
Mr Ms neighbour made a claim to Mr Ms insurers AXA in August 2019 claiming Mr M had 
damaged their car on 8 June 2019 on the road outside both of their properties. Apparently, 
the police had been in contact with Mr M, given the neighbours had complained to them too.
The matter was contentious and protracted, so AXA passed it to its legal department which 
told Mr M on 15 April 2021 that it felt it was better for AXA to settle the neighbours claim.
Mr M didnt agree that he was at all liable for any damage as he was very clear he didnt 
damage his neighbours car. So, he complained and ultimately brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I do understand and appreciate that Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision, 
however this service is not a court of law so we cant decide who is liable or negligent in 
causing any accident or damage, as that is only for the courts to do. Our remit consequently 
is to merely assess whether AXA came to its decision reasonably and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
As the investigator explained, Mr Ms policy permits AXA to do the following once a claim is 
made and also says the policyholder must:
give us [the insurer] full control of the claim We may take over, defend or settle 
the claim, or take up any claim in your name.
This is a standard clause in virtually every motor policy, so I dont find it unusual. And 
basically, it means that in taking out the policy Mr M agreed that AXA can settle any claim 
against him under his policy as it sees fit. As I said above, we merely look to see if the 
decision to settle the claim the neighbour made against Mr Ms policy was done reasonably 
by AXA. And I think it was.
This is because AXA managed to obtain legal advice due to the protracted nature of the 
issue. Such lawyers giving this legal advice are in court, on a daily basis and have expert 
views on whether its worthwhile to fight a case or not. In Mr Ms case the lawyers said the 
following:
prospects of successfully defending the claim at trial are slim
if this [claim] was to progress to a hearing, you would be likely found liable for 
some of the damage.
They later explained the following to Mr M:
At present all a judge would have to go on would be a statement from you and the 
third party and those images [of the alleged incident]. The vehicles do appear to be 
touching and it is my opinion that a judge would likely therefore award damages in 
favour of the third party because we cannot evidence that this was not the origin of 
the damage.
Given the case was escalated to AXAs Legal Department, the terms of the legal assistance   
also came into effect for Mr M and they say the following:
We or the lawyer will seek to settle the claim without going to court. However at any 
time we can carry out the claim in your name or that of the named driver.
We reserve the right to settle a claim by paying the full amount in dispute.
Prospects of success
We will only provide cover where your claim or any appeal you are pursuing or 
defending is more likely than not to be successful.
Whilst Mr M vehemently denies causing any damage to his neighbours car pointing out that 
his neighbour would have taken pictures at scene after the damage and there were no such 
pictures. However according to the legal department they couldnt obtain any police 
evidence to help Mr Ms case and the neighbour had produced an engineers report on the 
damage to the car, so quite simply they were of the view it was better to settle as it wasnt 
more likely than not that defending the claim would be successful. 
Given this legal advice on the evidence available, there is nothing to show me these 
conclusions arent reasonable. Had there been no involvement of legal advice at all, I might 
have queried how reasonable the decision to settle the claim was given Mr Ms view on the 
matter, but in view of the legal advice, I consider proper specialised thought has been given 
to the prospects of success and sadly for Mr M those prospects werent in his favour. 
And sadly, this will understandably impact the amount of Mr Ms premium amount going 
forward. I note his no claims discount isnt affected but Mr Ms insurance record now has a 
claim against him, which will have an effect on the premium amount for up to five years.
Mr M also complained about the service he received from AXA throughout this claim. AXA 
accepted it hadnt provided a good level of service and its communication with Mr M was 
poor. It offered him £100 compensation including £25 for its delay in dealing with his 
complaint. Mr M had previously complained about its poor service to him in April 2021> Mr M 
said it had offered him £150 compensation then.
I consider the total of £250 compensation to be reasonable in these circumstances and in 
line with what I have awarded in other similar type poor service complaints. So, in that 
regard I wont be asking AXA to do anything more.My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman