DRN-2785276
The complaint
Miss Qs complaint concerns the decision by Vitality Life Limited to refuse a Serious Illness
claim under her Vitality Life Essentials policy. 
What happened
Miss Q took out her policy on 21 September 2016. It offers her life and critical illness cover
for a five year term. The policy has a sum assured of £140,000, with partial payments of the
sum assured being payable depending on the severity of any listed illness.
Miss Qs policy was taken out on a Primary Cover basis. The policy wording has severity
levels for the listed claimable conditions and events. Primary Cover provides severity levels
A, B, C and D. Comprehensive cover provides cover for all severity levels - from A through
to G. Miss Q also has the Serious Illness Booster cover. 
In October 2017, Miss Q was diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
She lodged a claim with Vitality that same month under the policy definition of SLE.
As Miss Q has Primary cover, to meet the policy definition, her circumstances must meet 
Severity Level D, which requires the diagnosis as well as the permanent and irreversible 
ability to perform at least one of a number of functional ability tests. Levels C through to A 
require the policyholder to be unable to perform two, three and four functional ability tests. 
In September 2018, Vitality said it would not pay the claim. It said that the evidence didnt
show Miss Q was permanently unable to perform any of the six functional activity tests as
required by the policy wording.
In December 2018, Miss Q appealed the decision to refuse her claim and explained that she
would be required to move onto secondary medication in the New Year. Vitality therefore
agreed to seek further evidence from Miss Qs new consultant rheumatologist  Dr G.
In March 2019, Dr G told Vitality that Miss Q could not bend and pick up objects from the
floor - the ability to bend is one of the functional ability tests. She also documented that Miss 
Q had to sit down to put on her shoes. However, Vitality did not conclude that this was 
permanent and asked Dr G for more information. It said that no further information was 
supplied that substantiated Miss Qs incapacity such that it could conclude her inability to 
bend is permanent. So, it said it still wouldnt pay her claim.
Miss Q complained. In June 2019, Vitality told Miss Q it was unwilling to change its view. It
said that Dr G having told it that Miss Qs inability to bend must be permanent was not
sufficient to satisfy a claim, because it had not been established the effects of a flare up of
SLE on Miss Q.
Miss Q brought a complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our
investigators. He initially proposed Vitality consider an independent medical examination
(IME) for Miss Q. But Vitality did not agree to this. So, the investigator looked at whether
Miss Q was permanently unable to perform any of the functional ability tests on the evidence
that was available.
The investigator said the 2017 medical evidence showed Miss Q suffered from joint pain,
inflammation, weak muscles, arthritis and joint weakness. So he felt this would explain the
reasons Miss Q had said she is unable to perform the bending functional ability test. But, 
Miss Ls position had changed by 2019. In January 2019, she was prescribed second line 
treatment for her SLE. And in May 2019 she was observed by the second consultant 
rheumatologist, Dr G, where she documented that she could not perform the bending task.
The investigator felt that this observation, coupled with the longevity and permanent nature
of Miss Qs condition showed that Miss Q met the policy terms. He asked further questions
of Dr G regarding possible future medication that Vitality had suggested Miss Q may benefit
from. Dr G disagreed that Miss Q would be able to use these types of medication.
The investigator said it was unreasonable for Vitality to rely on further drug treatment that
Miss Q wasnt eligible for. He said since there were no reasonable treatment options open to
Miss Q, he felt her condition was permanent. In the absence of Vitality conducting any 
further investigation, he believed it ought to pay Miss Qs claim for Serious Illness benefit,
backdated to when it was declined. In addition, he believed Miss Q ought to be paid an
additional £500 to reflect the time Vitality had taken to address her claim. 
Vitality didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. The ombudsman initially issued a provisional decision and this was followed by a 
final decision. This essentially required Vitality to arrange an Independent Medical 
Examination by a suitably qualified medical examiner and reconsider Miss Qs claim in light 
of this. The ombudsman also awarded £500 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Vitality eventually arranged an IME with Mr N, who is an osteopath and functional capacity 
evaluator. He provided a report. And  having considered it  Vitality decided not to pay Miss 
Qs claim.
Miss Q complained to us and our investigator considered her complaint. After discussions, it 
was agreed that Vitality should arrange for a report by a Consultant Rheumatologist based 
on a desk-top review of all the medical evidence available. This was carried out by a Dr A. In 
essence, he concluded that Miss Q could not be said to have a definite diagnosis of SLE and 
that her inability to bend had not been evidence objectively. But  if she couldnt bend as 
described in the policy, this was not due to SLE. 
In view of what Dr A said, Vitality said it would not pay Miss Qs claim. So our investigator 
reviewed her complaint. He suggested that the fair and reasonable outcome was for Vitality 
to arrange a further IME by a consultant and give Miss Q a choice of five companies who 
could provide this to choose from. He also said Vitality should pay a further £500 in 
compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience Miss Q had experienced due to 
the further delay on her claim. 
Neither Vitality nor Miss Q were happy with our investigators assessment, so the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.  
I reviewed the complaint and emailed Vitality and Miss Q. I said that I thought Vitality should 
arrange an IME, but that it only needed to offer Miss Q a choice of three consultants. And I 
said if  having reconsidered the claim in light of the IME, Vitality decided to pay it - then it 
should pay what would have been due in May 2019. I also said I didnt intend to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Vitality responded to my email to say it still didnt think it should have to arrange an IME. It thinks Im placing too much weight on Miss Qs own reporting. And it has suggested her full 
medical records are obtained from her GP for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not going to detail all the medical evidence here, but I have considered it all. In 
summary, each of the specialists involved whove either treated or examined Miss Q or 
reviewed her medical history have said the following:
Dr G said Miss Q had SLE and she was satisfied she could not carry out the bending 
task set out in the policy and that her inability to do this was permanent.
Mr N said that in his view there was insufficient evidence to show that Miss Q couldnt 
carry out the bending task as set out in the policy. 
Dr A questioned the diagnosis of SLE and said there was no objective evidence to 
suggest Miss Q couldnt carry out the bending task. And he said her back problem could 
not be due to SLE. 
Clearly, Mr Ns and Dr As reports have cast some doubt on Dr Gs diagnosis and view on 
whether Miss Q can carry out the bending task. However, Mr N is not a doctor who 
specialises in connective tissue conditions. Therefore, while I accept he is experienced in 
carrying out FCEs, I dont think as much weight can be placed on his evidence as can be 
placed on the evidence of a consultant who specialises in this field and understands both the 
medical impact of SLE, as well as the effects it can have on someones ability to carry out 
certain tasks. Neither do I think as much weight can be placed on Dr As evidence as on Dr 
Gs. This is because  as he himself has pointed out  he has not had the benefit of meeting 
Miss Q face to face and examining her. Dr G was able to do this and was clearly satisfied 
that Miss Q had SLE and could not carry out the bending task. She also confirmed this to 
some extent when Vitality spoke to her. So I do think the most weight needs to be placed on 
Dr Gs evidence. 
However, I cant ignore the fact that two other experts have cast doubt on Dr Gs opinion, nor 
the fact that there really isnt any actual objective evidence to show Miss Q cannot carry out 
the bending task and that her inability to do so is permanent. She hasnt suggested she cant 
carry out any of the other tasks listed in the policy all of the time. So  based on the cover 
she has  she can only have a successful claim under the policy if she cannot carry out the 
bending task and this is permanent. Although, I should also say that to establish this is 
always going to rely to some extent on Miss Qs own testimony of her symptoms and how 
these impact her day to day life. This is the nature of the sort of condition she has. And, as 
an insurer covering this and other conditions where the same applies, Vitality should accept 
that its decision on Miss Qs claim cannot fairly be that it will not pay unless it has definitive 
proof she cant carry out the bending exercise. It has to be based on medical opinion formed 
from whatever tests can be carried out to establish a diagnosis and the extent of the impact 
of the condition on Miss Q as described by her. And I dont think I am placing too much 
weight on Miss Qs own reporting, as her treating consultant has given her professional 
opinion on Miss Qs ability to carry out the bending task.  
But, as I cant ignore what Dr A has said in particular, I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for Vitality to arrange an IME of Miss Q as soon as possible and 
then reconsider her claim in light of this. If this results in it paying her claim on the basis she 
cannot carry out the bending task permanently, I think it should do this on the basis this was the case in May 2019. This is because I think if this is what the consultant decides is the 
case following the IME, it means it was more likely than not to have been the case since May 
2019. 
I have decided not to award compensation for the further delays on Miss Qs claim, as 
Vitality did arrange a medical examination, albeit not with someone with specific expertise in 
connective tissue diseases, including SLE. And I think the report following this and the 
evidence of Dr A mean that Vitality decision not to pay Miss Qs claim was understandable. 
But this doesnt alter my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for 
Vitality to arrange a further IME. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained, Vitality should pay for an Independent Medical Examination in person 
(including covering Miss Q's travel costs to the examination) where the relevant policy 
wording is considered and where the examiner is asked to provide a full review of Miss Q's 
condition, including commenting specifically on the following:
Whether she has Systemic Lupus Erythematosous (SLE).
Whether this condition can lead to back problems and pain.
If she does have SLE, whether this causes her permanent (expected to last throughout
life with no prospect of improvement) inability to bend or kneel to touch the floor and     
straighten up again.
In doing so, Vitality must give Miss Q a choice of three suitably qualified Consultant
Rheumatologists who specialise in connective tissue disease, including SLE, within a 
reasonable travelling distance of her home. It must also make available to the chosen 
consultant all of the relevant medical evidence including the claims assessment, all the 
medical information Vitality has on Miss Q, the FCE report by Mr N, the report by Dr A, the 
various views of Dr G, specifically including her further conversation with Vitality where she 
discussed the permanency of Miss Qs inability to bend.
Vitality should then re-assess Miss Q's claim in light of the IME report by the consultant. 
And, if it supports Dr Gs view from May 2019 that Miss Q has SLE and that this means she 
cannot perform the bending task, Vitality should pay whatever was due on her claim in May 
2019. This is because, if the consultant reaches the conclusion that Miss Q cannot carry out 
the bending task because of her SLE, I think it will show it is more likely than not that she 
met the criteria for a successful claim under the policy in May 2019. I appreciate Miss Qs 
policy is a level term one, but I think it is important Vitality has to pay what would have been 
due in May 2019, as the policy term is due to end soon. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Vitality Life Limited. It must follow the 
steps I have set out above to provide an independent medical examination of Miss Q, 
following which it must issue a further claims decision. And if this is to pay Miss Qs claim, it 
must pay what would have been due under her policy in May 2019.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman