DRN-3624131
The complaint
Ms A has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). She isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Ms A had a home emergency policy with RSA and made a claim after a leak from her 
bathroom toilet at her home address. When she called to make a claim under her policy she 
had difficulty getting RSA to send an emergency plumber to look into the issue initially. And 
when RSAs plumber did attend they said they couldnt fix the leak as a builder was required 
as opposed to a plumber. So, Ms A tried to get a builder to attend but they wouldnt attend 
such a small job. But when Ms A spoke to another plumber they couldnt understand why 
RSAs plumber hadnt repaired the leak as they simply replaced the pan connector and 
sealed the connection. 
But when Ms A complained to RSA about this it didnt respond so she complained to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms A and upheld her complaint. This was because 
she asked RSA to provide information about Ms As complaint and about the claim, but it 
didnt respond. So, she thought the fair thing to do was to pay the costs Ms A incurred for 
her own plumber and £150 compensation for the stress and delay all this caused her. And 
as RSA didnt respond the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As RSA hasnt responded to the various requests for information made by our investigator 
and her view upholding this complaint Ive had to consider the complaint on the limited 
information before me.
Ms A has been very clear in her account about what happened and has provided evidence in 
support of her position, including invoices from her plumber explaining the work undertaken. 
And without any evidence or information to the contrary from RSA Im persuaded by this. 
Ms A has explained that RSAs plumber said he couldnt undertake the repair to the toilet 
that was causing the leak as a builder was required. And yet her own plumber was able to fix 
the leak by replacing the flexi pan connector and resealing the part. I cant be sure whether 
RSAs plumber would have undertaken all the work Ms As plumber undertook in repairing 
the leak under her home emergency policy. But I feel it would be fair and reasonable, in the 
particular circumstances of this case, for RSA to pay Ms As full costs (£686.69) which is 
under the policy limit. And it should pay simple interest for the time she has been without the 
money she paid.
Finally, I agree with our investigator that Ms A should be paid £150 in compensation for the 
clear stress, delay and inconvenience all this caused Ms A. She had to endure the problem 
for longer than she should have done and had the hassle and stress of organising the repair 
herself when her home emergency policy should have covered the claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Ms A £686.69, plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
claim until the date of settlement, and £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman