DRN-4036528
The complaint
Mr O complains about charges when he returned his car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In June 2019, Mr O acquired a new car using a hire agreement with MBFS. He took the 
agreement over a period of 24 months and it had an annual permitted mileage of 10,000 
miles (20,000 miles over the term of the agreement). When the agreement came to an end, 
Mr O handed the car back to a collection agent acting on behalf of MBFS and it was 
inspected for damage in June 2021.
Two inspections were carried out in June 2021. Initially, Mr O said an inspection was carried 
out and he agreed to two of the alloy wheels being scuffed. Four days later, a second 
inspection was completed. MBFS then sent Mr O an invoice and told him he owed £1,096 for 
damage to the car. Mr O, unhappy with the charges, complained to MBFS.
MBFS responded to Mr O and said theyll uphold an element of his complaint by reducing 
the cost of some of the charges. They said they initially charged for the replacement of a 
rear center console and a seat back cover, but later reduced these charges to reflect the 
cost of a specialist repair instead. They also explained why they felt all of the charges for 
damage were outside of their vehicle return standards (VRS). 
MBFS also explained to Mr O that they emailed him prior to the return of the vehicle. Within 
that email, it explained that when MBFS come to collect the car it will be inspected for 
damage. And that after the car is collected, it will go through a secondary inspection at their 
defleet centre and a final invoice will follow within 7-10 working days.
The remaining charged damages consisted of:
Bumper front  dented £260.00
Center console rear  hole £35.00
Seat back cover left hand rear  cut £42.00
Wheel left hand rear rim  damaged £110.00
Wheel right hand rear rim  damaged £110.00
TOTAL £557.00
Mr O remained unhappy with MBFS response and so referred his complaint to our service. 
He said he had only driven the car around 6,000 miles before returning it and that he valeted 
it prior to the inspection. Mr O felt he should only pay for the scuffed wheels. Mr O also 
believed that the collection agent and those responsible for the inspection report are 
responsible for the additional damage to the car.
Mr O also said he hasnt seen proof that the repairs were completed by MBFS.
Our investigator found that MBFS didnt need to take any further action in relation to this 
complaint. In summary, he thought all the charges that have been raised by MBFS have 
been fair and they fall outside of the allowed limits of whats considered fair wear and tear. 
He also said that while he cant be sure when some of the damage occurred, he thought it 
likely happened during the two years the car was in Mr Os possession, rather than during 
the four days it wasnt in his possession. The investigator also explained that the hire 
agreement that Mr O signed doesnt have a provision within it that allows him to offset any 
lower mileage undertaken, against any other charges raised.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators findings. He said the initial check highlighted no body 
damage and the collection agent told him the car was in immaculate condition when it was 
collected. Mr O, was happy to agree to make a payment of £250 without prejudice to 
conclude this matter as it isnt clear by whom the damage was done. 
Our investigator responded and explained on the initial inspection report, nowhere does it 
say that the car wasnt damaged. He said it simply doesnt reference the disputed areas at 
all. And as there is no clear evidence of the areas being undamaged at the time the car was 
collected, he thought it is more likely that the damage was caused at some point during the 
two years Mr O was in possession of the car. And so, he thought the charges had been fairly 
raised and should remain payable as they are.
Mr O still disagreed with the investigators findings and the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
During my investigation, I contacted MBFS and invited their comments about the damage to 
the front bumper. Mercedes has accepted the damage charged here is an oversight and 
agreed to remove the charge and credit Mr O.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 March 2023 where I explained why I intended to partly 
uphold Mr Os complaint. In that decision I said:
Mr O complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr 
Os complaint about MBFS.
Mr O was charged for several different things, so Ill consider these in turn. But Ive firstly 
thought about whether MBFS could charge him for damage. Looking at the agreement he 
took, it says:
you must return the vehicle(in accordance with the Vehicle Return Standards). If you 
fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle you will have to pay our costs of repairing and/or 
refurbishing the vehicle..
So, considering this, I think Mr O agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case.
Ill go on to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. The BVRLA is a trade body that oversees the vehicle rental and leasing sector. I 
understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful benchmark when 
considering what is fair and reasonable.
In relation to the front bumper, Ive reviewed the photo from the second inspection of the car 
and I contacted MBFS about it to ask their thoughts. I did so as the photo wasnt clear and I 
wanted to enquire about a mark on one of the boards used to reflect light on to the bumper. These boards are generally used to help distinguish whether dents are present on body 
panels. It seemed like the mark on the board was reflecting on to the bumper, which may 
have looked like there was a dent on the panel when there may not have been. On balance, 
I think it is likely there isnt a dent on the front bumper. But in any event, MBFS say they 
have now agreed to remove the charge for the front bumper and believe it was an oversight 
on their behalf.
So MBFS should remove the charge for the damage to the front bumper if they havent 
already done so. 
In relation to the interior of the car, the VRS says:
The interior of your vehicle must be in good condition for the age and mileage of the 
vehicle..
It also says:
Normal wear and tear to trim, upholstery, etc. is acceptable.
The BVRLA says:
The interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, 
tears, dents or staining..
Ive reviewed the photo of the rear center console. It shows a small mark, less than 10mm in 
length. Thinking about things here, and specifically the location of the mark  it being where 
a passenger would generally rest their arm if the center console was being used; I think it is 
likely this area would receive some marks to it during use of the car. Considering the age of 
the car and the relatively minor mark on the console, I think this falls under fair wear and 
tear. So it follows that I dont think MBFS have fairly charged Mr O for this.  
In relation to the seat back cover, the VRS says:
Tears, cuts, rips and holes through the seat covers, headlining and floor covering are not 
acceptable.
The BVRLA says:
The interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, 
tears, dents or staining..
Ive reviewed the photo of the seat. It shows a tear in the outer material, around 10mm in 
length. Im satisfied this area falls outside of fair wear and tear and it follows that I think 
MBFS has fairly charged Mr O for it.
While the damage to two of the alloy wheels isnt in dispute, for completeness, I have still 
looked into them. In relation to the wheels, the VRS says:
Minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel 
face... is acceptable. 
The BVRLA says, Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. And, Scuffs 
up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels/wheel hubs are 
acceptable..The photos of both the left and right rear wheel show scuffs along the circumference of the 
rim and they are over 50mm in length, in total. Im satisfied these areas fall outside of fair 
wear and tear and it follows that I think MBFS has fairly charged Mr O for them.
Mr O believes the damage to the car, other than to the alloy wheels, must have occurred 
after he returned the car and during the time it was in the possession of the collection 
agents. As Ive already said, I think the damage to the front bumper and rear center console 
falls within fair wear and tear. So my comments below are specifically about the seat back 
cover only.
Firstly, MBFS say when they come to collect the car it will be inspected for damage. And that 
when it has been collected, it will go through a secondary inspection at a specific location 
and a final invoice will follow within 7-10 working days. I have reviewed the initial inspection, 
which was completed on the day of collection. Within the report, there is a section called 
Inspection details and within it, it says, Result: Second Inspection Required.
I appreciate Mr Os comments that some of the damage wasnt recorded on this initial 
inspection report. But I think it is clear that this report wasnt a final conclusion on the cars 
inspection, and that a second inspection was required. I also dont agree that because the 
initial inspection report didnt list all of the damage later found that means it wasnt present at 
this point. And generally, Im more persuaded by the findings in the later inspection provided 
as it is more detailed in all areas.
Secondly, both inspection reports have recorded the odometer reading of the car. The initial 
report records it as 6,335 miles; the second report records it as 6,471 miles. There is a 
difference of 136 miles between the two inspection reports. I dont think this is an 
unreasonable amount of miles between inspections, especially considering it would likely 
need to be driven to the inspection site. 
I accept there is no way to know for sure that the damage to the seat back cover didnt occur 
during this time or at the inspection site. There is also no way to know for sure what the 
collection agent told Mr O regarding the condition of the car upon collection. So, with the lack 
of evidence, I must consider what I think likely has happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Considering things here, I think it is much more likely that the damage to the seat back cover 
occurred during the roughly two years and 6,300 miles it had covered when Mr O possessed 
it, rather than during the four days and 136 miles the collection agent had it for.
Mr O also says he hasnt seen proof that the repairs were completed by MBFS. Ive thought 
carefully about this. The VRS says:
The decision to repair the vehicle or not to repair the vehicle rests with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited and / or the retailer or manufacturer who will undertake the 
Vehicle Return Standard Inspection on our behalf..
The BVRLA says:
Charges can still be applied at end of lease in cases where the leasing company decides for 
commercial reasons not to repair damage or to replace missing equipment before the 
vehicle is sold..
While it isnt clear whether MBFS completed the repairs, in any event, I dont think it matters, 
as both the VRS and the BVRLA guidance is clear in that damage doesnt need to be 
repaired and charges can still be applied at the end of a lease.Mr O says the car was returned with a low mileage, well below the 20,000 miles he was 
permitted under his agreement. Having looked through the terms, I cant see a provision 
within them that suggests a reduction may be made to damage charges if the car was 
returned with a lower mileage than the maximum allowed at the end of its term. And in any 
event, the lower mileage doesnt change the fact that the damage was present.
I set out that I intended to partly uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
MBFS responded and said they partly accept my provisional decision. They say they will 
remove the charge for the rear center console as advised but asked me to reconsider my 
opinion regarding the front bumper damage. 
MBFS says the mark I have referred to on the board is located on the fifth group bar, and 
they say the dent is on the third and fourth group bar.
Mr O hadnt responded to my provisional decision before the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the photo from the second inspection again. As Ive previously said, the 
photo isnt clear which is why I had contacted MBFS to seek clarity on it. 
I am not persuaded by what MBFS has said. I say this because, on the same board, I can 
see smaller marks on various parts of it  most importantly, around the bottom of the third 
and on the fourth group bars. Ultimately, MBFS has used a damaged board to show a 
possible dent on the bumper, and from what I have seen, I dont think there is enough 
evidence to demonstrate there is a dent on the front bumper. I think it is more likely there 
isnt a dent. So MBFS should remove the charge for the damage to the front bumper if they 
havent already done so.
In summary, I think MBFS has wrongfully charged Mr O for the rear center console, and the 
front bumper  and fairly applied the wear and tear guidelines in the other areas being 
charged which I have looked in to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
remove the £35 charge for the rear center console.
remove the £260 charge for the front bumper if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman