DRN-3607313
The complaint
Mrs H complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted her four credit  
accounts that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs H entered into agreements with NewDay to have access to credit with four separate 
credit card accounts. The first, a Debenhams Mastercard (card ending 0890), was opened 
for her in January 2019 with a credit limit of £500. In May 2019 the credit limit was increased 
to £1,200 and in September 2019 to £2,200.
The second, an Amazon card account, was opened for her in September 2019. From the 
information thats available, it had an initial credit limit of £500 that was increased to £550 in 
August 2020.
The third, an Aqua Classic account (card ending 0759), was opened for her in 
November 2019 with a credit limit of £450, which was increased to £500 in July 2020. 
The fourth, a second Aqua Classic account (card ending 5836) was opened in June 2021 
with a credit limit of £300.
Mrs H says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the 
accounts. She says if it had, it would have seen that the accounts werent affordable for her 
given her financial history. She also says that NewDay ought to have known that she could 
only manage minimum payments and so it would take her a lot longer to pay off each of the 
cards. 
NewDay didnt agree. It said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mrs Hs financial circumstances before granting her the accounts for each card. 
Our adjudicator said the NewDay shouldnt have increased Mrs Hs credit limit on 
Debenhams Mastercard to £2,200 in September 2019 and also shouldnt have granted her 
the three other accounts. 
Since NewDay hasnt responded to our adjudicators findings, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Im in agreement with our adjudicator that NewDay didnt act fairly when it granted Mrs H the 
second credit limit increase on the Debenhams Mastercard and in agreeing the opening of 
the other three accounts. 
Ill look at each of the four cards separately and explain my findings. 
Debenhams Mastercard Card (ending 0890)
Account opening
The credit checks NewDay completed looked into Mrs Hs financial circumstances. New Day 
also relied on the information Mrs H gave on her online application. Mrs H said she had a 
total annual income of £10,000. Whilst there was no evidence of Mrs H having any defaults, 
payment arrangements or arrears elsewhere, the checks showed she already had other 
credit commitments. In total, Mrs H owed £5,900 to other creditors. I think its likely that 
repayments towards these debts took up a significant proportion of Mrs Hs income. 
Although there were no immediate problems, I consider it would have been proportionate for 
NewDay to have got a more thorough understanding of Mrs Hs financial circumstances 
before lending to her.
I think that had NewDay carried out further checks, it would likely have found that Mrs H had 
enough disposable income available to meet her existing financial commitments whilst 
maintaining this account. I say this because the bank statements Ive seen from around this 
time show that Mrs H appeared to have enough disposable income available each month to 
be able to at least meet her monthly minimum payment requirements. I agree with our 
adjudicator that she had a monthly income that worked out at around £2,600 per month, with 
committed expenditure of around £1,800. If NewDay had completed proportionate checks by 
looking at these, I think its likely it would have found this to be the case. That means I dont 
consider NewDay acted unfairly in giving Mrs H the Debenhams Classic card. 
It follows that I think it would have been proportionate for New Day to have found out more 
about Mrs Hs committed expenditure, such as her living costs. But I cant be sure exactly 
what NewDay would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, 
however, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
contained in Mrs Hs bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
First credit limit increase
Looking at the first credit limit increase for this account, in May 2019, I agree with our 
adjudicator that it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to find out 
more about any changes to Mrs Hs income, as well as the level of committed expenditure 
she had at that time. I say this especially having seen that shed use the card to withdraw 
cash in March 2019, had incurred an overlimit fee in May 2019 and also missed a payment 
that month. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the first credit limit increase. 
These show that Mrs Hs average income each month was around £740, whilst her average 
committed expenditure each month was around £540. This expenditure included other 
unsecured borrowing, payday and short term loans. I think this demonstrates its likely Mrs H 
had enough disposable income each month at this time to make regular, sustainable 
repayments towards her Debenhams card. Therefore, if  NewDay had completed 
proportionate checks, I think It may well have found this to be the case. I therefore dont 
consider that NewDay acted unfairly in granting Mrs H an increased limit for this account. Second credit limit increase
Turning to the second credit limit increase, in September 2019, I think it would have been 
proportionate for NewDay to have found out more about Mrs Hs committed expenditure, 
such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly what NewDay would have found out if it had 
asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information contained in Mrs Hs bank statements as to what would most likely 
have been disclosed. 
Ive again reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. 
These show that Mrs Hs average monthly income was around £540 and yet her average 
committed expenditure was around £570, leaving her with a shortfall. Again, her committed 
expenditure was almost entirely spent on repaying debt and included short term lending. Its 
therefore clear that by this time Mrs H didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably 
afford the additional borrowing.
Amazon Card
This account appears in the credit search Mrs H sent us. Given that the account was opened 
around 11 days after the Debenhams account, at which point Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances were largely the same, I think that it would have been proportionate for 
NewDay to have checked to ensure it had a more thorough understanding of Mrs H financial 
circumstances before lending to her again. Had it done so, it would have seen that Mrs H 
wasnt in a position to be able to comfortably maintain any repayments to this account 
without further worsening her financial situation. 
Aqua Classic Card (ending 0759)
At the time Mrs H was granted her first Aqua Classic Card, in November 2019, Mrs H said 
she had an annual income of £12,000 and that her partners monthly income was around 
£1,600. The credit check information from the time showed she owed around £7,800 in 
unsecured debt. Having seen that Mrs H was already incurring late and overlimit fees on her 
Debenhams Mastercard by this point and was making cash withdrawals from it, I think it 
ought to have been evident to NewDay by then that Mrs H might be struggling to manage 
her existing credit limits. So there was a significant risk that Mrs H wouldnt have been able 
to repay what she already owed within a reasonable period of time and that her overall 
indebtedness would increase unsustainably. 
I dont think NewDay ought to have granted Mrs H this account without completing more 
thorough affordability checks. I think proportionate checks would likely have shown NewDay 
that Mrs H was already in difficulty with managing her other accounts alongside her 
mounting unsecured debt and day-to-day living expenses.  
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that NewDay ought to have been aware that Mrs H 
was not in a position to take on and manage this additional credit. It follows that I dont think 
NewDay should have granted it to Mrs H. 
Aqua Classic account (ending 5836)
The second Aqua Classic account was opened in June 2021. The credit check 
completed by NewDay showed that Mrs H was maintaining an annual income of around 
£10,000 but did not have the benefit of any income from her partner. She was now 
running around nine active accounts and/or cards, albeit with a moderately lower 
unsecured debt of £5,700. However, Mrs H was continuing to incur late and overlimit fees 
on her Debenhams Card and had incurred overlimit fees on her first Aqua card between August and December 2020. At the same time her other card balances were close to 
being over their credit limits. I think this shows that overall Mrs H was struggling to 
manage her existing credit. So if NewDay had carried out proper and proportionate 
checks it would likely have seen that Mrs H was not in a position to take on more credit 
without further worsening her already difficult financial position. 
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do.
NewDay shouldnt have increased Mrs Hs credit limit to £2,200 in September 2019. 
NewDay therefore needs to compensate Mrs H for all interest and charges on balances 
exceeding £1,200  being the previous card limit - for her Debenhams Mastercard and any 
other interest and all charges she incurred on the three other accounts, which all opened 
after 9 September 2019, being the date of the second credit limit increase on the 
Debenhams Mastercard. 
It should therefore:
Rework Mrs Hs account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the Debenhams Mastercard and all such charges for the Amazon 
card and the two Aqua Classic cards. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay should contact Mrs H to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Mrs H has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file for all 
four accounts from 9 September 2019 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs H, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Hs 
credit file for all four accounts after 9 September 2019. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation in 
respect of each of these four credit card accounts as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman