DRN-3775823
The complaint
Miss T and Mr W complain about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled their 
claim for storm damage to their property, which they believe should be covered under their 
home insurance policy.
Miss T and Mr W are represented in this complaint by Miss Ts father but, for ease, Ill refer 
to Miss T and Mr W throughout.
What happened
Miss T and Mr W have a home buildings and contents insurance policy with Admiral. In 
May 2022 they called Admiral to say their garden wall had collapsed and they wanted to 
make a claim under their policy. Admiral surveyed the property but declined the claim saying 
the damage was caused by a natural breakdown of materials and there was no insured 
cause. Miss T and Mr W complained as they believed the damage was caused by storm 
conditions. They said cracks had appeared in the wall after the storms in mid-February 2022 
and that had led to the wall collapsing in May. They werent happy with the way Admiral had 
handled their claim, or with the surveyors attitude when hed visited their property.
Admiral responded by saying the photos taken by the surveyor showed the garden wall was 
in a poor condition before the incident in May 2022. And their policy didnt cover Miss T and 
Mr W for any loss or damage caused by gradual wear. It also said there were no storm 
conditions in the area at the time of the incident. It noted that Miss T and Mr W hadnt made 
a claim in February 2022. And it couldnt see any problems with the service it had provided.
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted fairly in declining the claim as there were no 
storm conditions at the time the wall collapsed. She recognised that Miss T and Mr W had 
noticed cracking in the wall after storms in February 2022, but they hadnt made Admiral 
aware of that at the time. And, in any event, she thought the claim would have been declined 
under the exclusion around wear and tear and damage caused by anything that happens 
gradually. Our investigator considered the way Admiral had handled the claim but didnt think 
it needed to do anything more.
Miss T and Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss T and Mr W but, having done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Let me explain why.
When this service looks at storm damage cases, we ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered. I can see that Admiral checked the weather in the area where Miss T and Mr W live 
at the time they said their garden wall had collapsed but didnt think its storm criteria had 
been met. Their policy defines a storm as being winds with gusts of at least 48 knots 
(55mph), heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least 30cm 
in 24 hours, or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
Ive seen the evidence Admiral looked at when considering whether thered been a storm at 
the time. I too have checked the conditions in the area around Miss T and Mr Ws house 
during the weeks in question. And Im satisfied there were no storm conditions on or around 
the date the wall collapsed. The recorded wind speeds and rainfall were much lower than Id 
expect to see if there had been a storm. As Ive answered no to question 1, theres no need 
for me to go on to consider questions 2 and 3. So, I think Admiral acted fairly in declining 
Miss T and Mr Ws claim for storm damage.
Miss T and Mr W said the wall was damaged by storm force winds in February 2022, when 
the south-east of England experienced three named storms in a week. They said that 
damage had weakened the wall and led to it collapsing three months later. Should Admiral 
have changed its decision in light of that information? I dont think so. Miss T and Mr W didnt 
provide any evidence of the damage caused in February and although they say they tried to 
get the wall repaired at the time, they werent able to. But the key point is that they didnt 
make a claim in February and so Admiral had no evidence of the cracking caused at the 
time. 
Even had Admiral accepted that storm conditions had contributed to the collapse of the wall 
in May 2022, it didnt think it was the main cause of the damage. And cited an exclusion in 
Miss T and Mr Ws policy that means it doesnt cover any loss or damage caused by 
anything that happens gradually. The surveyors report says the damage was caused by the 
natural breakdown of materials. And Admiral said the photographs taken by the surveyor 
showed defective mortar work and roots and vegetation growing between the walls. Having 
looked at the report and the photographs within it, Im satisfied they support the surveyors 
findings. So, I think it was fair for Admiral to apply that exclusion.
Ive also considered whether the damage caused to Miss T and Mr Ws property could be 
covered by any other parts of their home insurance policy. But I dont think it could. Their 
policy included accidental damage cover. But I think that too would be caught by the 
exclusion around loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually. 
Miss T and Mr W werent happy with the service provided by the surveyor, saying he was off 
hand and didnt seem to take on board what they were saying. Admiral said it was sorry they 
felt that way and asked for any further evidence of what happened. And I think that was fair. 
Without evidence of what was said, I think it would be difficult to reach any firm conclusions 
about what happened on the day. Miss T and Mr W were also unhappy with the way Admiral 
handled their complaint. But their main grievance seems to be that Admiral didnt take 
account of the cracking that had appeared after the storms in February 2022. And Ive 
already set out why I think the approach Admiral took in this case was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Miss T and Mr W have experienced at their property. 
But, for the reasons Ive given, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decline their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman