DRN-4056818
The complaint
Miss E and Mr H complain that although they complied with the terms of HSBC UK Bank 
Plcs redemption statement, they didnt get a refund of the early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Miss E and Mr H had a mortgage with HSBC which they redeemed in October 2021. The old 
mortgage was for £168,601.27 with a fixed rate of 1.29%. The new mortgage taken out 
through a broker was for £376,100.00 with a fixed rate of 1.59% with HSBC and was taken 
out two weeks later. In the redemption statement HSBC say that the ERC will be refunded if 
they took out a new fixed rate with HSBC within six months of the redemption of the existing 
loan providing it is for the at least the same amount, fixed rate and term as previously. Miss 
E and Mr H incurred an ERC of £1,038.86 and believe it should be refunded. 
HSBC say that this wasnt a porting application, and the fixed rate wasnt the same as 
previously so the ERC wouldnt be refunded. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld as HSBC had acted in compliance with the terms of the 
mortgage offer. Miss E and Mr H disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, Miss E and Mr H took out a new mortgage product with HSBC. The product 
was a fixed rate on their mortgage and the term of that product ended in June 2022. If the 
mortgage was redeemed before that date an ERC would apply. The mortgage product could 
in certain circumstances be ported which means that the interest rate on the existing 
borrowing could be transferred to a new mortgage without payment of the ERC. But Miss E 
and Mr H didnt want to port their mortgage product. They applied for and got a new 
mortgage product with their new borrowing. There is a message from their broker on HSBCs 
file dated 14 October 2021 Existing clients, not porting, new product. If Miss E and Mr H 
werent porting, they are required to pay the ERC without a refund. Thats how it works and 
of course Miss E and Mr H had a broker to advise them on that. The broker would appear to 
have advised that it wasnt to their benefit to port and have the ERC refunded but rather 
more to their benefit to take out a new mortgage product with their higher borrowing. 
So, its clear that Miss E and Mr H werent porting and would have to pay the ERC. But Miss 
E and Mr H would like not to port but get the ERC refunded. They refer to terms in the 
redemption statement which say that the ERC will be refunded if a new fixed rate mortgage 
is taken out within a certain period providing it is for at least the same amount, fixed rate and 
term as previously. Whats this section for? Its for borrowers who are porting but not 
simultaneously porting. To anticipate an objection from Miss E and Mr H it doesnt refer to 
porting. I agree but a party that isnt porting isnt either expecting or entitled to a refund.  
Either Miss E and Mr H were porting in which case theyre entitled to a refund or not porting 
in which case they wont be so entitled. 
The object of this section is to indicate that rather than requiring simultaneous porting, HSBC 
will allow some flexibility in the timing. But Miss E and Mr H arent porting, and the section 
doesnt apply to them. Given that the context of this section is in relation to porting, I 
consider that the reference to the fixed rate clearly means the same fixed rate as previously. 
Miss E and Mr H invite me to enter a discussion about the syntax of this section in the 
redemption statement in order to refund them the ERC. But they werent porting, didnt want 
to port and so couldnt reasonably have expected to receive a refund of the ERC. Even if the 
wording in the redemption statement is imprecise, I dont consider that Miss E and Mr H 
were misled as they had already decided not to port which means that they had decided to 
pay the ERC without refund. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I dont consider it fair or reasonable to require HSBC to refund the ERC to 
Miss E and Mr H as if they were porting when they were not.. For the above reasons I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman