DRN-4087933
The complaint
Miss Js complaint is that Paragon Finance PLC trading as Moorgate Loan Servicing is 
pursuing her for the outstanding balance of a secured loan arranged by her late ex-husband 
in their joint names. This is because she says she was not aware the loan had been taken 
out and, while she subsequently became aware of it, the responsibility for paying it was 
assigned to her ex-husband in the divorce settlement. In addition, Miss J is unhappy that 
Paragon has contacted her at times regarding the loan when it had been told not to. She is 
particularly unhappy about the contact she has had since she informed Paragon of her 
ex-husbands death in the autumn of 2022.
What happened
In 2004 a secured second charge loan was advanced in Miss J and her then husbands 
name. It was secured on their residential property, which Miss J still lives in. Shes told us 
that she became aware of the loan around 2010 and that as part of divorce proceedings, her 
ex-husband became responsible for paying the loan. However, despite this, Paragon 
continued to contact her about the loan. 
Payments to the loan were missed from an early stage and arrears built. Paragon contacted 
Miss J about the matter when it was unable to speak to her ex-husband. The arrears 
situation resulted in legal action being started in early 2017 to repossess Miss Js property. 
The arrears on the account were paid off by a relative in May 2017, but payments werent 
maintained thereafter and contact again started due to arrears in 2018. Again, it appears that 
Paragon contacted Miss J when it was unable to contact her ex-husband.
Following Paragon starting legal proceedings Miss J raised the issue of the loan having been 
taken out fraudulently by her ex-husband. She was told to raise the matter with Action Fraud 
and let Paragon know what the outcome of doing so was. The issue was mentioned several 
times after that, but with no substantive response being provided by Paragon. In 2019 Miss J 
complained about this to Paragon and also raised the issue of it still treating her as though 
she were liable for the debt, despite her having provided with evidence to the contrary. 
Paragon responded to the complaint in a letter dated 25 July 2019. 
Miss Js ex-husband died in the autumn of 2022, at which time payments to the loan 
stopped. Miss J has told us that following this Paragon started calling her again, and that the 
number of calls constituted harassment. However, the contact notes from Paragon show that 
Miss J called to tell Paragon about the death around six weeks later and that was the first 
telephone contact with Miss J since the spring of 2022, although there had been letters sent. 
Two days after the notification, the person dealing with the estate, along with Miss J and her 
son, called Paragon about the situation. Paragon placed a hold on the account until 
31 March 2022 in order to allow provision of the death certificate and for it to be established 
if the estate could pay off the loan. Paragons records dont show any contact with Miss J, or 
attempts to do so, during the period the account was on hold.
Shortly after Miss J notifyed Paragon about her ex-husbands death, a complaint was raised 
on her behalf. The complaint was in relation to her liability for the outstanding debt and the 
contact from Paragon, which was causing her distress.
Paragon reminded Miss J that it had responded to her concerns about the arrangement of 
the loan and her liability for it in its letter of 25 July 2019. It declined to comment on this 
aspect of the complaint again. In relation to the matter of it calling Miss J, it explained that no 
payments had been made for some months, and so it needed to know what was happening, 
hence it calling her. Paragon apologised if its calls had caused her distress and confirmed 
that was not its intention. It didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
Miss J was not satisfied with Paragons response and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators looked into whether we could consider Miss Js complaint. She 
concluded that we were limited to considering Miss Js concerns the contact she had 
received from Paragon from April 2014.
Neither party raised any concerns about the matter of our jurisdiction, and so our investigator 
went on to consider the merits of the complaint about the recent administration of the loan. 
She didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld as she was not persuaded that the 
limited contact Paragon had made with Miss J constituted it harassing her. 
Miss J didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She reiterated her previous comments 
about the loan having been fraudulent and regarding her liability for the outstanding debt. 
Miss J considered that it was not acceptable that we could not deal with this part of the 
complaint. She said that Paragons handling of this matter and it ignoring the evidence she 
had provided verged on harassment, and was certainly poor practice and bullying behaviour. 
In relation to the matter of the contact from Paragon, Miss J said that she became aware of 
the debt initially because of a visit from a debt collector, and considered the level of contact 
she had received to have been harassment. Miss J said that she was certain that Paragon 
contacted her on a particular date, despite what its records showed, and it was still 
contacting her, despite it being told not to. She said that continued contact about the loan 
had made her ill. 
Miss J said that the investigators outcome was vague and almost dismissive of her position. 
As such she asked that the complaint be escalated. 
Further correspondence was exchanged about the matter of our jurisdiction. As agreement 
could not be reached about either our jurisdiction or the merits of the part of the complaint 
we could consider, the complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
I issued a decision on 22 June 2023 setting out our jurisdiction in relation to Miss Js 
complaint points. I found that we could only consider the matter of the contact that Miss H 
was unhappy about from April 2014 onwards. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P disagreed with our investigators findings and said that she doesnt believe that the 
records of contact provided by Paragon are accurate. I would explain that if the available 
evidence on a case is contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is most likely 
to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and decide how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together, including our knowledge of industry practices, to form an 
opinion on the whole picture. 
The starting point for assessing what happened in a complaint is normally the 
contemporaneous documentation and records, as these record the events and what was 
said at the time things happened. Contemporaneous documentation is not fool-proof, of 
course; its always possible information might be recorded incorrectly. However, its typically 
more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a 
compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, we will generally attach some 
weight to it. 
I have reviewed all of the contact notes for the period that we are able to consider. Having 
done so, I am not persuaded that the contact Paragon made with Miss J was unreasonable 
or could be considered to be harassing. While Paragon had been told that Miss Js 
ex-husband would be dealing with the account and it should contact him, he unfortunately 
didnt always deal with the account and Paragon was not always able to contact him. It was 
at those points that Paragon contacted Miss J as the joint accountholder. This was not 
unreasonable, and it doesnt appear to have happened very often. I can of course 
understand Miss Js upset at being contacted when she was in hospital with her very ill 
relative, but Paragon would not have known about those circumstances at the time it called.
That is not to say there were not periods that Miss J was in very regular contact with 
Paragon, but these periods appear to have been instigated by her. Those being a period in 
2017 when Paragon was taking legal action to repossess Miss Js home and later when she 
was speaking to Paragon about her concerns about the loan having been arranged 
fraudulently and her liability for the debt. 
As for the period following the joint borrowers death, it doesnt appear that there was very 
much contact with Miss J at all. As I have said above, in order to give the individual that was 
dealing with the estate time to provide relevant documentation and establish whether the 
estate would be able to pay the loan, a hold was put on the account. A hold means that, 
other than documentation that the lender is required by regulation to issue, no contact will be 
made by the lender to the borrower or their representatives. I wouldnt expect there to be any 
calls made to Miss J in that situation and Paragons records dont indicate that it did so. 
So while I can understand Miss Js upset due to the overall situation, I am not persuaded 
that Paragon acted inappropriately in the contact it made with her at various times. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 
26 June 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman