The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside a credit card in 2004.
What happened
In 2004, Mr S applied for a credit card in a branch of Barclays. At the same time he applied 
for a PPI policy. If he successfully claimed on the policy it would have paid 10% of his 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months if he'd lost his job or been off work sick. The cost of 
the policy was charged to the credit card account - so Mr S would pay for the policy with 
interest in line with the card's terms and conditions.
Mr S thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mr S didn't 
agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr S knew he had a choice about buying the policy. Mr S says 
the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent. He thinks Barclays must have have 
just included the PPI without discussing it with him. So I've thought about what Mr S has said 
alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Barclays has sent us a copy of the application form for the credit card. I see that there was a 
separate section Mr S needed to complete if he wanted to buy PPI. Mr S needed to tick a 
box labelled "Yes, I want my account with you to be covered against unemployment, 
accident, sickness and death". This box is ticked. There was a separate box Mr S needed to 
tick if he didn't want PPI, which hasn't been ticked. I also note that the PPI was listed as an 
item on Mr S's credit card statements - so if he didn't know he'd bought it, I'm surprised he 
didn't question this at the time. For these reasons, I think Mr S knew he had a choice, and 
chose to buy the PPI.
Barclays recommended the policy to Mr S, so it needed to check it was right for him. Based 
on what I've seen of his circumstances, I think it was. Mr S wasn't affected by any of the 
main things the policy didn't cover. Although he received some sick pay from his employer, 
DRN-1053422this reduced after six months, while this policy would pay 10% of the outstanding balance for 
up to a year. And though Mr S says he could have relied on his partner's income, I don't 
think this could have been guaranteed to be available when he needed it.
It's possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about the policy wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr S chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks as 
though the policy was affordable. So I don't think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
This means Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Barclays didn't tell Mr S
that was unfair.
To put that right Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I've thought about everything else Mr S has said. But these points don't change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesn't have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman