DRN-3213811
The complaint
Ms K and Mr V complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a claim for 
subsidence.
What happened
Ms K and Mr V made a claim under their home insurance policy after internal cracks 
appeared at their property. Ageas declined the claim saying it hadnt been made aware of an 
apple tree in the neighbours back garden when it had asked Ms K and Mr V whether there 
were any trees over 10 feet tall within 20 feet of the insured buildings.
Ms K and Mr V complained to Ageas, saying it wasnt fair to decline the claim on this basis, 
as they hadnt been able to measure the distance between the tree and their property due to 
various difficulties in doing so. They also said theyd never visited the neighbours garden 
and there werent any windows facing the tree, so they couldnt have known it was within 20 
feet of their home.
Ageas said, in response to the complaint, that its decision to decline the claim was fair, given 
that the non-disclosure of the presence of the tree meant appropriate terms couldnt be 
applied to the policy to reflect the risk posed by the nearby vegetation.
Ms K and Mr V disagreed with Ageass response and referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered what both sides said, and didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said she thought it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim because, if Ageas had 
been made aware of the nearby apple tree, a further endorsement would have applied to the 
policy, which wasnt met.
As Ms K and Mr V didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding Ms K and Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
The claim was declined on the basis that an endorsement in the policy, which wouldve 
applied from the outset had Ageas known about the apple tree, was not met. This 
endorsement said:
It is a condition of this policy that you notify your neighbour(s) in writing that it is your 
neighbours responsibility to keep their trees and/or vegetation that are within 20 feet 
of your home lopped and topped on an annual basis to prevent trees and/or 
vegetation from damaging your home.
The endorsement also required a copy of the letter to the neighbour to be sent to the insurer 
within 30 days of it instructing the policyholder to do so. And that if this wasnt complied with, 
any claim resulting from subsidence caused by tree roots wouldnt be paid.
Its not in dispute that the subsidence was caused by tree roots and this is evident from the 
site investigation results and subsequent reports. So Ive thought about whether the 
endorsement was applied fairly in this case. And in doing so, Ive considered whether Ms K 
and Mr V made a qualifying misrepresentation and if so, whether Ageas acted reasonably in 
response to that misrepresentation.
The relevant law Ive taken into account is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires customers to take reasonable care not 
to make misrepresentations when taking out insurance. In accordance with this Act, Ive 
considered, in determining whether a misrepresentation occurred here, whether Ms K and 
Mr V were asked a clear and specific question, and if so whether they provided an 
inaccurate response.
I note from the statement of fact dated May 2018 that Ms K and Mr V were asked to confirm 
that: There are no trees or shrubs (inside or outside the premises) within 20 feet of any 
building which are more than 10 feet tall. Ms K and Mr V confirmed this as True. I 
appreciate that Ms K and Mr V have said they feel they were honest in their responses to 
questions, for example, in disclosing previous subsidence issues with the property. I dont 
doubt Ms K and Mr Vs integrity and I dont consider that its been called into question. The 
misrepresentation theyve been said to have made was a careless one, not a deliberate or 
reckless one. And taking everything into account, I think unfortunately Ms K and Mr V did 
make a careless misrepresentation when answering what I consider to be a clear and 
specific question about nearby vegetation.
I say this because, from looking at photos of the property, I can see that the apple tree is 
clearly visible from their garden. And I think it looks tall enough and close enough to their 
property for Ms K and Mr V to have known it might have been within 20 feet of their home  
and for them to therefore have known that this is something they shouldve queried further or 
at the very least mentioned on the statement of fact. Ive taken into account Ms K and Mr Vs 
point about there being some errors with the measurements quoted in various 
correspondence. But the relevant consideration for me is that the correct measurement of 
the distance between the tree and their property has been determined to be under the 20 
feet stated in the question and this fact isnt in dispute. 
I note that on the statement of fact, certain handwritten information was provided for context, 
for example in relation to previous movement at the property. So in this case I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Ms K and Mr V to have indicated on the form that there were 
indeed some tall trees outside the premises, but that their exact distance from the building 
and their exact height had not yet been measured. This wouldve then provided the insurer 
with sufficient information to enable it to make a decision about whether further information 
was required. And I think this would have discharged Ms K and Mr Vs duty under the Act to 
answer the question to the best of their knowledge. However, as answered, and without the 
provision of any further context, I think confirming the statement as True did constitute a 
careless misrepresentation.
Ive then considered whether Ageass response to the misrepresentation was proportionate. 
Its provided evidence to show that it still wouldve offered cover (with different terms) to 
Ms K and Mr V had it known about the vegetation from the outset. Ms K and Mr V have said 
the additional endorsement was only added to their policy after the claim was made, when 
the policy was renewed in August 2019. This is correct, but Im persuaded by the information 
provided by Ageas which shows that the policy would have included the endorsement if the 
correct answer had been given to the question of whether the tree was within 20 feet of the 
property. So Im satisfied the endorsement is applicable. Ms K and Mr V have also highlighted that Ageas wouldve still offered them cover had the 
correct information been given. This is also right. But it doesnt mean Ageas would need to 
pay the claim. This is because although the policy wouldve been offered, it wouldve 
included the additional terms requiring the insured to notify their neighbours in writing to 
keep vegetation within 20 feet of the property lopped and topped each year. And I think its 
fair for Ageas to retrospectively apply those terms, because it has shown that it wouldve 
applied them from the outset, had it been made aware of the relevant vegetation. I think this 
is a fair and proportionate response to the misrepresentation in this case.
A further point Ms K and Mr V have made is that the earliest any notification wouldve been 
sent to their neighbour wouldve been in June 2018, following the change of insurer in May 
2018. Theyve said that as the subsidence occurred in August 2018 this wouldnt have given 
the neighbour sufficient time to react to the notice and take steps to prevent the subsidence 
occurring. I agree that its possible the neighbour wouldnt have taken any action before the 
subsidence occurred, as it was only required to do so annually. But having thought carefully 
about this point, I still consider the failure to meet this endorsement to have been material to 
the insurer. This is because notifying the neighbour of its obligations wouldve removed the 
neighbours potential defence that they had no knowledge of the problem, thereby allowing 
the insurer to attempt to recover costs from the neighbour at any time following the 
notification being given, including costs in relation to the current claim if it had been 
accepted, irrespective of the short amount of time that had passed.
Ms K and Mr V have also mentioned Ageass failure to involve their previous insurer in the 
claim. But Ageas isnt required to do this under the terms of the policy. And as Ageas was 
entitled to decline the claim due to the misrepresentation which led to the application of an 
additional endorsement that wasnt met, I dont think its acted unreasonably by not involving 
the previous insurer. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms K and Mr V, but Im afraid that for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly in declining the claim on the grounds it did.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman