DRN-4147046
The complaint
Mr D complained about delays that occurred during the process of arranging an ISA transfer 
from Barclays Bank Plc to his new ISA provider that Ill refer to as F.
What happened
Mr D held a Barclays stocks and shares ISA. 
On 25 November 2021 Mr D phoned Barclays to check on the progress of his ISA transfer to 
F. Barclays told him it hadnt heard anything from F and advised Mr D to chase things up 
with F as Barclays would need to receive a transfer request from F to start the process. 
Some of the exact details of what followed are unclear. Ultimately, the transfer process took 
around 6 months and the transfer completed in June 2022.
HM Revenue and Customs guidelines say that a stocks and shares ISA transfer should be 
completed withing 30 days. Clearly, Mr Ds transfer took a lot longer than this, so I looked 
in more detail at what happened.
Barclays and F each provided a timeline of events explaining the course of the transfer from 
their respective points of view. Both Barclays and F accepted that there were delays during 
the transfer process. F agreed it was responsible in part for the transfer taking so long to 
complete. Barclays disputes that it did anything wrong and says it wasnt the cause of any of 
the delays that occurred.
An investigator at this service felt that Barclays and F were equally to blame for the length of 
time it took for the transfer to complete. As far as Barclays was concerned, the investigator 
recommended it should pay Mr D £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. She didnt 
think that Mr D would have done anything differently if the transfer had completed sooner, so 
she wasnt persuaded that Mr D had incurred any financial loss, for instance by missing out 
on investment opportunities.
Mr D agreed with this assessment of his complaint but Barclays didnt accept the 
investigators findings or recommended settlement.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I must decide whether there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that Barclays failed 
to process a properly completed transfer within a fair and reasonable timescale. I can tell 
Barclays to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied that 
Barclays did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to Mr D 
suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. 
Here, it seems delays occurred at the outset when there was a mis-match in the information 
Mr D had provided to F. Until this was corrected, it meant that incorrect account details and 
national insurance numbers were included in several transfer requests sent by F which didnt 
match information Barclays held on file. Barclays said it checked and found the information it 
had recorded was accurate. So I dont consider that Barclays was to blame for the resulting 
delays when these transfer requests containing incorrect information were rejected.
When Barclays received a correctly completed transfer request from F on 17 March 2022, 
Barclays says the valuation it was required to send was sent to F the next day. Fs timeline 
of events doesnt record receiving the valuation. And the paperwork Barclays has provided in 
support of what it says doesnt show precise details  for instance, the date isnt recorded on 
the face of the covering letter purporting to enclose the valuation and addressee details 
arent apparent. But this isnt enough of a reason for me to conclude that this valuation 
wasnt sent or affect the overall outcome of the complaint.
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information. And I must be impartial. Theres more information on our website which 
explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
F said it sent a new transfer request on 23 March 2021 but that Barclays repeatedly rejected 
its transfer requests on the basis that there was already an active transfer underway. F says 
this was incorrect but I can see from Barclays system notes that this was the error message 
that came up  possibly because the system had logged the previous transfer requests sent 
by F.
Barclays says it had to chase F twice more after it sent the valuation on 18 March 2021 
before things moved to the next step in the transfer process. This broadly fits with what F 
told us when it said Mr D sent it a new transfer request on 10 May 2022 which this time it 
submitted electronically via a shared software system (ATG) used by Barclays and F.
Barclays told us it received this request on 12 May 2022 and sent the valuation on 
19 May 2022  followed by chasers sent to F on 24 and 30 May 2022. When Barclays 
received acceptance from F on 1 June 2021 it completed the transfer and F received Mr Ds 
transferred funds on 6 June and the cash balance on 13 June. Ive looked at the details of Mr Ds Smart Investor account held with Barclays. I cant see 
that Barclays failed to do anything Mr D was reasonably entitled to expect under the terms 
and conditions that applied to his account. And I am satisfied that Barclays actions (or any 
lack of action) werent the primary reason for delays in the transfer process. It seems to have 
acted promptly when it received properly completed requests and followed up with F when it 
didnt hear back as quickly as it reasonably might have expected. Barclays records show 
chasing letters were sent to F on five separate occasions.
I've noted that although F thought there was an arrangement in place that ruled out 
contacting Barclays by phone, Barclays has said its lines were open at all times  and I've 
seen nothing to suggest otherwise. So I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible if F didnt call 
and this resulted in missed opportunities to advance matters. And even if there were some 
occasions when Barclays might have been able to do more to speed things up, I dont think 
its likely this wouldve made any significant overall difference to how long it took the transfer 
actually to complete. The main problem here seems to have been a combination of 
sequential errors in transfer requests submitted by Mr Ds new provider and a failure on the 
part of F to press ahead with the transfer request. I think it's fair to say that as Mr Ds new 
provider, the onus was on F as the acquiring provider to ensure it had taken necessary steps 
to progress the transfer within a reasonable timescale. 
As I havent found that Barclays did anything wrong or that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr D, then it follows that there are no grounds for me to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint about Barclays involvement in this matter. So, whilst I can completely 
understand how frustrating the whole process was for Mr D and I dont doubt the transfer 
delays were stressful and inconvenient for him, I cannot require Barclays to pay him 
redress in these circumstances. 
If I have not referred to each and every point mentioned during the course of the 
correspondence about this complaint, thats because Ive concentrated on what seems to me 
to be the core issue I need to address when deciding the complaint. Our rules allow this and 
it reflects the fact that we provide an informal complaints handling service as a free 
alternative to the courts. 
But I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful and even though this isnt the 
outcome Mr D hoped for, he will at least feel that the complaint has been fully considered by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr D did not comment on my provisional decision. 
Barclays confirmed it agreed with what I'd said. 
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman