DRN-3012398
The complaint
Miss J complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), processed a Voluntary Surrender (VS) to end her conditional sale credit 
agreement rather than the agreed Voluntary Termination (VT). She also complains about the 
amount of the outstanding balance. 
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator, so I wont them repeat here. I shall focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Miss J has had some personal difficulties and has struggled to 
make repayments. I can see this has been a difficult time for her. 
My role is to decide whether BPF has acted reasonably and fairly towards Miss J. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to her but having considered the evidence I agree with 
the investigators conclusions for the following reasons. 
Miss J found herself in arrears in June 2019. She said she called BPF and was told 
once shed paid over half the loan amount, she could do a VT and would not be liable 
to pay the rest of the loan. She said she was unemployed at the time and was finding 
repaying the monthly amounts difficult. From the call notes I can see Miss J called 
BPF 27 June, 23 July and 9 August. She discussed VT during two of the calls. On 
the notes it says VT paperwork was generated and sent out on 10 August.
BPF made outgoing calls to Miss J on 2 September, 18 September, 1 October, 8 
October, 16 October, 25 October. The call notes indicate voicemail messages were 
left. During this time the account continued to be in arrears and the account defaulted 
on 26 October. Notes on the file indicate VT paperwork hadnt yet been returned.  
Miss J said she never received the VT documents and wouldve remembered 
receiving paperwork for the termination that she had personally called the business 
and asked for. Ive seen a copy of the VT paperwork, dated 10 August and 
addressed to Miss Js registered address at the time. Im not disputing Miss J when 
she says she didnt receive VT paperwork, but Im satisfied it was sent. 
Miss J also said she wasnt told that if the paperwork wasnt received by a certain 
date the agreement would automatically switch to a Voluntary Surrender and Miss J 
would be liable for any money outstanding on the account. On the VT cover letter, it 
says: 
If we do not receive these documents by 24/08/2019, then we will assume that you 
no longer wish to voluntarily terminate this agreement.
So Im satisfied Miss J was sent a letter giving a time limit during which to return the 
completed documents. 
By the time she asked for a VT Miss J had already been sent an arrears notice for 
the second time along with information on how she might be able to seek help. The 
first time was in 2017 when BPF agreed to a payment plan. So, I think although she 
may not have received the documents Im persuaded Miss J was aware or ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the offer of VT would not be for an indefinite 
period of time and there would likely be a time limit on it. 
Miss J said she wouldve signed the VT had she received it. As Miss J asked for the 
VT paperwork, I think it reasonable for her to have contacted BPF when she didnt 
receive it. And to respond to the calls BPF made in the weeks after she asked for the 
VT. Its not possible for me to determine if BPF would have accepted the VT after 
deadline of 24 August, that wouldve been a business decision for BPF at the time, 
but Im satisfied it made a determined effort to contact Miss J before it issued the 
termination notice for the credit agreement on 27 October, when Miss J was given 
the option to VS. 
 
Miss J has said she didnt understand why the policy write off balance was £3,034.59 
but the account balance on the paperwork was showing zero. Ive looked at the 
statements and sale proceeds after the vehicle was sold. Im satisfied the 
outstanding balance of £3,034.59 is correct. As the investigator explained the 
outstanding balance was written off the account but the debt remained and was 
being prepared for transfer to a debt collection agency. 
I do appreciate this will be disappointing to Miss J but I wont be asking BPF to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman