DRN-2115231
The complaint
Miss R complains about the avoidance of her motor insurance policy and decline of her 
claim by Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited following the theft of her car.
What happened
Miss R took out car insurance with Markerstudy in January 2018 while she was in 
employment. She said she left her job later that month. Miss R renewed her policy with 
Markerstudy in January 2019 but maintained she was in employment. She said later that she 
was unemployed at the time. 
Miss Rs car was stolen from her home in December 2019 and not recovered and she 
claimed to Markerstudy. Markerstudy declined her claim and avoided her policy as it said 
shed misdeclared her employment status. 
 
Markerstudy said Miss R ran quotes online stating she was unemployed, but stated she was 
employed when calling to renew the policy. It said all insurers require information to assess 
the risk and the premium to charge and the consumer is legally obliged to answer questions 
accurately. Markerstudy said Miss R had carelessly misrepresented her employment status 
and had it known the correct information it wouldnt have offered her any cover. It said it was 
avoiding her policy from renewal in January 2019 under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 and wouldnt pay her claim but would refund her 
premiums.
Miss R described this as a human error due to stress she was under at the time and said 
she hadnt tried to gain any advantage. She said she wouldnt have been working at the time 
her car was stolen and Markerstudy was making a blatant attempt to get out of not paying 
her claim of almost £20,000 due to an irrelevant technicality. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Miss R had made a 
careless misrepresentation and had Markerstudy known she was unemployed it wouldnt 
have offered her cover. He said it was fair for Markerstudy to avoid the policy and decline 
her claim.
Miss R disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Markerstudy thinks 
Miss R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she renewed 
her policy in January 2019 and said she was still in employment.
Ive looked at the records of Miss Rs renewal and the questions she was asked. 
Markerstudys records show that Miss R ran seven separate quotes in January 2019 with her 
occupation as unemployed. According to Markerstudys underwriting criteria it would not 
have offered cover to Miss R.
Ive seen Markerstudys record of its call with Miss R to renew the policy and its member of 
staff asked if her occupation and other details had changed and she said, everythings the 
same from last year. The question was clear and there are only two possible answers, and 
given that Miss R hadnt been in employment for some time I dont think she took reasonable 
care in answering this question. 
Markerstudy has provided evidence of its underwriting guidance which I have seen, and I 
can confirm that it doesnt offer insurance cover to unemployed consumers. This means Im 
satisfied Miss Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Markerstudy has treated Miss Rs misrepresentation as careless. She has explained that 
she was under stress at the time of renewal and I agree her misdeclaration was careless 
rather than deliberate.
As Im satisfied Miss Rs misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Markerstudy can take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances, the law 
allows Markerstudy to avoid the policy from the misrepresentation, when she renewed her 
policy, and not deal with any claims. It must then return any unused premiums the consumer 
paid. I understand that Markerstudy has refunded Miss Rs premiums for 2019.
Therefore, Im satisfied Markerstudy was entitled to avoid Miss Rs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Markerstudy does not 
have to deal with her claim following the theft of her car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Markerstudy to rely on it to 
avoid Miss Rs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
I can well understand Miss Rs deep frustration with her loss and the withdrawal of her 
insurance cover. But Markerstudy is entitled to decide who it does or does not wish to insure 
and as this is a commercial decision its not one our service can interfere with.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Andrew FraserOmbudsman