DRN-2023600
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
I understand Mr L has a representative in this complaint. But as the policy is in his name, I 
will mainly refer to him. 
What happened
Mr L had an accident in his car and reported the accident to Calpe. He gave an initial 
account about the accident and Calpe appointed an investigator to look into the 
circumstances surrounding the claim. 
Calpe considered all the evidence surrounding the accident. It highlighted a number of 
inconsistencies in Mr Ls account about the incident. And as it didnt believe the accident 
occurred as Mr L described it declined the claim and voided the policy. As Mr L wasnt happy 
about this and the fact that he didnt get the salvage back he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position Mr L found himself she didnt think it had done anything wrong 
as there were clear inaccuracies in his account. She also got to the bottom of how Mr Ls car 
was disposed of and believed that ultimately the finance provider (who in effect owned the 
car) had given up control of the car as the storage costs were spiralling, which meant the car 
was scrapped. And Calpe paid it a fair salvage figure for the car which will go towards paying 
the finance off. As Mr L didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr L has found himself, 
Im not upholding this complaint. Although there is a lot of detail and background to this case 
the key issue I have to consider is whether Calpe has acted reasonably in turning down 
Mr Ls claim. And I think it has.
Mr L gave a very clear account about the circumstances surrounding the accident. He said 
that he was working away and that he lost control of his car when he was driving to his 
accommodation on 11 August 2019 at around 8pm. He gave this account when he first 
reported the accident to Calpe on the phone, in a written form giving a brief overview about 
what happened and in a full statement given to Calpes appointed investigator. This account 
was clear.
However, Mr L provided photographs of the scene and these were dated the day before he 
said the accident had happened, and they were taken in the middle of the day as opposed to 
at night. This was clearly at odds with what hed said before. And Mr L said that the recovery 
truck collected the car about an hour after the accident which wasnt consistent with the 
photos hed provided. There were other minor discrepancies in his account, but this was the 
main reason Calpe said it was turning down his claim and voiding his policy.
Since that time Mr L has said that he was confused about the time and day the incident 
happened. He has provided evidence about his mental health around the time of the 
accident and since that time. And I can see that Calpes decision has had a big impact on his 
life. 
But I wouldve expected Mr L to be clear about the day and rough time when he provided his 
first account and certainly when he was interviewed. And if Mr L was struggling with his 
recollection and recall of the details surrounding that accident I wouldve expected him to say 
at the time of interview so this could be reflected in his statement. I know his representative 
has raised questions about the interview and statement that Mr L signed but Im satisfied 
that Mr Ls account was clear. So, I dont think it is unreasonable for Calpe to rely on Mr Ls 
written statement that was taken by its appointed investigator which gave a clear account 
about what happened.
Turning to the return of the salvage after the car was written off I think Calpe has acted 
reasonably. I say this because Mr Ls car was clearly a write off and sustained heavy 
damage in the accident when it left the road and ended up in bushes. Mr L had the car on 
finance and the finance provider was contacted by the storage yard as the storage costs 
were mounting up (about £600). As the car salvage was only worth about £800 the finance 
provider gave up ownership of the car which led to the car being destroyed. 
Mr Ls representative maintains that he shouldve been offered the salvage so that he 
couldve repaired the car. He couldve repaired it and used it or sold the car to help pay the 
outstanding debt on the car. While I understand this Mr L wouldve had to have paid the 
storage costs to retrieve the car which were already close to the value of the car. And given 
Mr Ls financial position this wouldnt have made sense and he wouldve had to act quickly, 
or he wouldve owed a significant amount of storage costs. And given the fact that Calpe has 
arranged to belatedly pay £800 (the salvage cost of the car) to the finance provider (which 
will be put towards Mr Ls outstanding debt) when there was £600 owed in storage charges I 
cant say it has acted unreasonably here.
So, despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr L has found himself, I dont think that 
Calpe has done anything wrong.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman