DRN-2370221
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI to protect their existing mortgage repayments in 2009 in one of 
the banks branches. The policy gave them unemployment cover. They paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. RBS disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision (an extract of which follows, and forms part of this final decision) I 
set out why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I asked both parties to let me have 
any comments or information by 22 November 2020.
Extract from my provisional decision
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint saying RBS had failed to give Mr and Mrs C enough 
clear information on the policy. And this mattered to Mr and Mrs C as they already had 
protection from their employer. So had they been properly informed he concluded they 
would not have taken out PPI.
RBS disagreed with this. It said Mr and Mrs C had both been employed for six years at 
the time of the sale. They would have been entitled to a redundancy payment worth 3.5 
weeks salary for every year worked  so just under six months worth of salary. But there 
would have been no other mortgage protection as part of their contract of employment. 
And as the PPI gave them up to 12 months redundancy cover, and paid out in addition to 
their work benefit, it offered useful protection.
 
My view is that the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C, so I disagree that any 
failure in information provision means they have lost out. I say this as in 2009 their length 
of service meant they would have received a lump sum payment worth 21 weeks salary. 
But the PPI paid out for up to 12 months, and in addition to their work benefits. It would 
have allowed them to protect the lump sum redundancy payments giving increased 
financial stability at an already difficult time.
Mr and Mrs C told us they had savings worth at least three months salary but the PPI 
would have allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, 
or to keep them intact for their future needs. I have seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs C 
received any kind of mortgage protection insurance as an employee benefit. And they 
were paying each month for the PPI so they could have cancelled it without incurring any 
further cost if their circumstances changed, or they no longer wanted it.
Mr and Mrs C also referred to a second PPI policy they had at around the same time, but 
they havent provided any documentation or detail, so I cant know or fairly conclude that 
mean they didnt need this PPI policy.
Overall, given their circumstances and the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if they lost their job(s).
So I am not currently minded to uphold the complaint for the reason the adjudicator did.
I note that Mr and Mrs C told us that when they changed mortgage lender in 2014, they 
were told they didnt need PPI due to their work benefits. But this was when they had 11 
years service and would have been entitled to a much larger lump sum payment if made 
redundant. So this isnt relevant to the sale in 2009.
I have also considered if better information about other elements of the policy might have 
impacted Mr and Mrs Cs decision. I dont know when they were first told of the cost, but 
the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know if RBS 
pointed out the main exclusions and limitations of the policy. But it seems M and Mrs C 
werent affected by them so I dont think better information would have changed their 
decision.
the other aspects of the sale
RBS had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs C had to agree to take it 
out. They say an adviser told them they should think about it, so they got a quote and 
decided to sign up. RBS no longer has their application form, but as they already had a 
mortgage elsewhere, I think they would have been clear the PPI was a separate, optional 
product. Also they only selected unemployment cover, not the more common package of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. This suggests to me they understood they had 
choices. Overall, I think RBS made it clear the PPI was optional and they chose to take it 
out.
Mr and Mrs C say they were advised to take the PPI, RBS disagrees. I cant see any 
evidence that the bank reviewed their circumstances and then made a recommendation. 
This means it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them. But as Ive said above, it 
did have to provide enough clear information so they could make an informed decision. 
And whilst I accept its possible it didnt, for the reasons set out above I dont think Mr and 
Mrs C would have made a different decision with better information.
It followed I didnt think Mr and Mrs C lost out because of any problems with this sale.
RBS responded to the provisional decision saying it had no further information to provide. 
Mr and Mrs C did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive followed it 
here.
As neither party provided any new evidence or information in response to my provisional 
decision, I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out. 
My final decisionMy decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman