DRN-4270003
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy that it 
cancelled her motor insurance policy and turned down her claim. 
What happened
Mrs Rs car was stolen from outside her home address and she reported the claim to 
Advantage. When it looked into the circumstances surrounding the claim it turned it down 
and cancelled the policy. This was because it thought the claim wasnt as Mrs R reported 
and so it declined the claim citing the fraud exclusion under the policy. 
As Mrs R wasnt happy she complained to Advantage about this. It maintained its position 
and said that the keys provided either didnt match Mrs Rs car or hadnt been used in the 
months leading up to the theft. And when Mrs R then looked to send a further third key this 
was lost in the post and couldnt be checked so Advantage maintained its position. 
Unhappy with Advantages response, Mrs R approached this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs R but didnt uphold her complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position Mrs R had found herself in she didnt think Advantage had 
done anything wrong. It felt that there were inaccuracies and inconsistencies in Mrs Rs 
account which led it to turn down the claim.
As Mrs R didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for Mrs R Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs R made a claim under her policy Advantage looked into the circumstances 
surrounding the claim as insurers invariably do. Mrs R said her car was stolen from outside 
her home address and that she had both keys to her car. She sent them off to Advantage 
and it looked to test the keys, but they were both of a slightly different design. It transpired 
one was a genuine key that had been used with the car a few months before the theft. And 
the other was from a newer model of the same vehicle which wasnt connected to Mrs Rs 
car  in fact this key has been passed to the police as part of a separate investigation.
Advantage told Mrs R about the discrepancy with the second key and she explained this 
must have been left by a family member when they stayed at her house. And Mrs R said that 
she would send another key (a third key) into Advantage to be checked as well (which she 
now believed must be the correct one). Unfortunately, this key was lost in the post, so 
Advantage hasnt been able to test this key. 
However, Mrs R was very clear in the telephone call with Advantage (which Ive listened to) 
when she was told that the second key didnt match her car that the key she still had in her 
possession (the third key) was the spare key and she explained it was broken. Mrs R was 
clear that the main key that she used all the time was the key Advantage already had in its 
possession and said Ive been usingthe one youve got and that the one Ive gotit was 
broken werent it so I werent using that one. But when Advantage tested the key it had 
received that was connected to her car it hadnt been used with her car in the months 
leading up to the theft. So, it would seem this wasnt the main key and yet the one Mrs R had 
in her possession (the third key) was broken and wasnt used.
Given these discrepancies I cant say Advantage has acted unfairly here. It has questioned 
whether the posting of the third key was genuine and I can understand this although there is 
insufficient evidence to support its position. But, given the differences in the style of key I 
would have expected Mrs R to identify the correct keys and to have sent them to Advantage 
in the first place as she used the vehicle, and the keys every day. Indeed, if she was in 
doubt, as Mrs R suggested when Advantage called her about the incorrect key, then she 
could have sent all three. And Mrs R made it very clear that the key Advantage had was the 
one she used every day as the third key, that she still had in her possession, was broken. 
But it is clear that this key hadnt been used for a few months and so cant have been the 
key Mrs R used just before the theft. And given what Mrs R said about the third key that was 
subsequently lost being broken, I can understand Advantages concerns.
Overall, Advantage has genuine questions about the circumstances surrounding the theft, 
the usage of the keys and the possible use of a genuine key in the theft of the car so I cant 
say that its questions and decline of the claim are unreasonable. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman