DRN-4470825
The complaint
Mr C complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (Chetwood) is holding him liable for the 
debt on two loans which he says he didnt apply for.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr C has explained that in 2022 he fell victim to an investment scam 
whereby the scammers, unbeknownst to him, took out loans in his name with Chetwood 
totalling £20,000; the scammers then tricked Mr C into paying the loan funds to them (the 
scammers).
Mr C subsequently realised what had happened and he contacted Chetwood to explain the 
loans had been fraudulently taken out in his name. Ultimately Mr C couldnt reach agreement 
with Chetwood, so he referred his complaint about Chetwood to us. One of our Investigators 
looked into things but was unable to resolve the matter informally. The case has therefore 
been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr C and Chetwood my provisional decision last month (October 2023), in which I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint in part, which is a different outcome 
compared to that recommended by our Investigator. So, Im issuing this provisional decision 
to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
The first question is: did Mr C enter into these two loan agreements, or were they done 
without his knowledge and consent as he alleges? Having considered this carefully, I think 
its most likely the loans were taken out in Mr Cs name without his knowledge and consent 
(and therefore he did not enter into these loan agreements). I say this because:
Mr C has plausibly explained how the scammers already had enough information to 
take out the loans in his name. And from the nature of the contact between Mr C and 
the scammers, I can easily imagine how they could have tricked Mr C into providing 
any further information they might have needed throughout the applications.
Ive found what Mr C has said about him being scammed, and the pretext the 
scammers gave him for the money coming into his account, plausible and 
persuasive. 
I understand its common ground the email address and phone number on the loan 
applications werent Mr Cs. 
Im persuaded Mr C was scammed and that he wasnt aware of the loans in his name 
at the time.
Since Im satisfied Mr C most likely didnt apply for or agree to these loans with Chetwood, I 
dont think it would be fair for Chetwood to hold him to the terms of the loan agreements he 
never saw or agreed to. So, Chetwood shouldnt hold Mr C liable for interest or charges, 
neither should there be any records of the loans on Mr Cs credit file  so if there currently 
are, these should be removed.
At the same time, I dont think Chetwood was to know at the time that the applications hadnt 
come from Mr C or that there was something untoward about them. I take on board what 
Mr C has said about the scammers persuading him at the time that the loan funds that 
landed in his account were bonuses from the scammers; and that there was no need to be 
concerned about the loan funds showing on his account as LiveLend Loan and 
BetterBorrow Loan because, the scammers said, they were just references. However, I 
dont think its unfair to say that Mr C, given the circumstances, really ought to have taken 
reasonable steps to verify the funds werent loans in his name (before he sent the funds on 
anywhere else). Instead, Mr C just took the scammers word for it, and paid (and lost) the 
money to the scammers for an investment he thought was legitimate. I dont doubt Mr C 
wished he hadnt done so, and that he was taken in by the scammers. But in circumstances 
like this, I dont think I can fairly say that Chetwood should not be able to pursue Mr C for 
any of the loan funds still outstanding, or that it should be required to refund to Mr C any 
repayments to the loan he has already made (if any).
Mr C has questioned how he was accepted for the loans in the first place. And Ive thought 
about this. But our usual approach on unaffordable lending is that interest and charges 
should be removed but the consumer should still pay back the principal amount of the loan 
they had the benefit from. Ive already said above this is essentially what I think should 
happen in this case. So, even if the loans had been irresponsibly lent (and Im not saying 
they were), the redress Im intending to direct in this case would already cover what wed 
normally award for this. I havent seen anything in this case that persuades me appropriate 
redress would be different to this. So, Im satisfied this wouldnt change things.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part, and to direct 
Chetwood Financial Limited to:
remove all interest and charges on the loans;
take any repayments already made to the loans by Mr C to date (if any) as having 
reduced the respective loan balance;
remove reference to the loans from Mr Cs credit file;
not pursue Mr C for more than the outstanding amount of the principal loans of 
£20,000 in total.
Chetwood responded and said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr C responded with 
some further comments which Ill address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. 
I wont repeat in detail here everything Mr C has said in response to my provisional decision, 
and please let me assure the parties that no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
I understand from Mr Cs response to my provisional decision that he feels he was the victim 
of an issue between fraudsters and Chetwood. Hes sent information about other people who 
he says have fallen victim to the same fraudsters; and hes questioned why he, as the victim, 
should have to repay the loans, and why Chetwood shouldnt, instead, pursue the fraudsters 
bank or the fraudsters themselves to retrieve the loan funds. 
Im sorry Mr C was tricked by fraudsters. However, this was the fault of the fraudsters, not 
Chetwood. I cant see it was Chetwoods fault fraudsters were able to take out loans in 
Mr Cs name given the information Mr C gave them. Chetwood didnt pay the loans to the 
fraudsters, but instead to Mr C who then sent the funds onto the fraudsters. The issue I need 
to decide here is not whether Chetwood should pursue the fraudsters or their bank, but 
whether its fair for Chetwood to pursue Mr C for the outstanding amount of the principal 
loans which it paid to Mr C. I must decide this case based on its own merits. Other instances 
or cases that on their surface may look similar can be quite different. I couldnt reasonably 
ask Chetwood to write off the principal loan amounts unless: its acts and omissions unfairly 
resulted in Mr Cs loss; and/or I was satisfied this was a fair and reasonable outcome. And I 
already explained in my provisional decision why I dont think it would be fair for Chetwood to 
be prevented from pursuing Mr C for the outstanding amount of the principal loans. 
Mr C has made various points around him not approaching Chetwood for, or signing for, the 
loans; and Chetwood not sending him paperwork for the loans at the time of application, 
which he says would have prevented things. I understand Mr C has also questioned why 
Chetwood still wants him to repay the principal loan amounts when, he says, it hasnt 
provided a copy of the loan applications. 
However, its common ground that the email address and phone number on the loan 
applications werent Mr Cs. And, in the circumstances, I wouldnt expect Mr C to have 
received notification about the loans before they were deposited into his bank account. 
I dont think this was Chetwoods fault because Im satisfied the fraudsters had the means to 
 and indeed did in this case  trick Chetwood into thinking the applications were legitimately 
from Mr C. I dont think Chetwood was to know at the time the applications hadnt come from 
Mr C or there was anything untoward about them. Neither do I think Mr Cs point about the 
loan applications should affect matters here. The loan funds were paid into Mr Cs bank 
account, not to the fraudsters. And Ive already explained why I dont think Mr C most likely 
applied for or agreed to these loans with Chetwood  so Chetwood shouldnt hold Mr C liable 
for interest or charges, neither should there be any records of the loans on Mr Cs credit file 
 so if there currently are, these should be removed. 
As per my provisional decision, however, the matter of the principal amount of the loans is a 
different thing. It doesnt automatically follow that just because Mr C didnt apply for or enter 
into these loans that Chetwood shouldnt be able to pursue him for the principal amount of 
the loans when this is money he received into his bank account and made use of. Mr C sadly 
lost this money to a scam, which was due to the scammers, and Mr C has my sympathy. 
I dont think it would be fair to hold Chetwood responsible for this. As explained in my 
provisional decision the loans were paid directly into Mr Cs bank account and appeared 
there as LiveLend Loan and BetterBorrow Loan  and Im satisfied Mr C shouldnt just 
have taken the fraudsters word on things, but should have instead taken reasonable steps 
to verify the funds werent loans in his name (before he utilised them for his own purposes 
for an investment, which sadly, as we know, Mr C subsequently realised was a scam). Mr C has said that LiveLend and BetterBorrow arent household names. But both names suggest 
lending. And both names were followed by the word Loan. And in any event Mr C has said 
he did question this, its just that he trusted the scammers answer, in circumstances where I 
think he really ought to have paused and looked into things more. So this isnt a persuasive 
argument in my opinion. As Ive said, I dont doubt Mr C wished he had done things 
differently here. But I cant fairly hold Chetwood responsible for this. And I dont think it would 
be fair for me to tell Chetwood it cant pursue Mr C for the principal amount of the loans in 
circumstances like this. I appreciate Mr C has said a different lender has decided not to 
pursue him, but that doesnt change what I think is fair here. 
Mr C has also said that Chetwood must know about ID theft like this, and hes questioned 
whether its able to safeguard itself with insurance. However, Ive already said why I dont 
think Chetwood was to know there was anything untoward about the loans in this case, and 
why I think the outcome Ive proposed is fair. But in any event Chetwood has said it doesnt 
hold insurance for loans taken out as part of a scam or any type of fraud, so this wouldnt 
change things.  
Finally, Mr C has questioned how he is going to afford to pay back the principal amount of 
the loans. I explained in my provisional decision that our usual approach on unaffordable 
lending is that interest and charges should be removed but the consumer should still pay 
back the principal amount of the loan they had the benefit from. Ive said this is essentially 
what I think should happen in this case. So, even if the loans had been irresponsibly lent 
(and Im not saying they were), the redress Im directing in this case would already cover 
what wed normally award for this. Ive considered everything Mr C has said about this and I 
do truly sympathise with his position. But the information Ive seen doesnt persuade me that 
appropriate redress would be different to this. So, Im satisfied this wouldnt change things. 
Ive already said interest and charges should be removed and the loans removed from 
Mr Cs credit file. If Chetwood pursues Mr C for the outstanding loan balances, Id expect it 
to be sympathetic to any financial constraints.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part, and I direct 
Chetwood Financial Limited to:
remove all interest and charges on the loans; 
take any repayments already made to the loans by Mr C to date (if any) as having 
reduced the respective loan balance;
remove reference to the loans from Mr Cs credit file; 
not pursue Mr C for more than the outstanding amount of the principal loans of 
£20,000 in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman