DRN-3933544
The complaint
Ms K complains that Wise Payments Limited (trading as Wise) wont refund money she lost, 
after she fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, Ms K fell victim to a safe account scam on 20 July 2022 where she transferred 
£1,000.00 followed by £2,403.16 from her other bank account (subject of a separate 
complaint) to her Wise account and then from there on to the scammer.
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. She didnt think the transactions ought to have 
led to Wise intervening. She also thought the £150 Wise has already offered for any distress 
and inconvenience it caused was fair.
Ms K did not agree. As the case couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Ms K was the victim of a scam and I can understand why she wants to do 
all she can to recover the money she has lost. Shes lost a lot of money through no fault of 
her own. But that alone doesnt mean that Wise must reimburse her. Its important to 
emphasise that Im only considering whether Wise, which had no involvement in the scam 
itself, should be held responsible for what happened. I can only direct Wise to refund Ms Ks 
losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Ms K, but I wont be addressing every 
single point thats been raised. It doesnt follow that the points havent been considered, 
simply that I dont need to particularise every point in reaching an outcome I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think 
are central to the outcome of this complaint.
Ms K has referred to a case from our website. I dont know the finer details of that particular 
case - but each case is judged on its own merits and what may appear (on the face of it) to 
be a similar set of circumstances, may often transpire not to be the case.
As the investigator mentioned - the transactions arent covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. The Code is a voluntary Code and Wise is not a 
signatory. Ms K also refers to the regulatory action regarding the reimbursement of funds 
lost through authorised push payments (APP) scams - which hasnt been put in place yet. 
Its important to note that any changes in legislation cant be applied retrospectively.
Ms K has also referred to large sections of the PSRs (Payment Service Regulations) that 
dont apply in this case. These were authorised transactions rather than unauthorised 
transactions  albeit Ms K was tricked into making the transfers. Many of the sections Ms K 
has referred to are in respect of unauthorised transactions. 
Theres no dispute that Ms K instructed Wise to make the payment, albeit under deception. 
Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  that means she 
is responsible for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which payment service 
providers are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
There is no documented threshold for intervening on a payment, but it is for me to decide 
what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The amount of money Ms K sent, 
while clearly not insignificant to her, doesnt in and of itself suggest to me any heightened 
risk of fraud. I also cant see that Wise knew anything about the recipient of the funds that 
ought to have given it cause for concern (an account which was neither held by Wise, nor 
would it have had any control over).
I accept that the two transactions were larger than usual for the account and the balance did 
reduce to zero, but Im not persuaded this would have stood out as unusual or suspicious. 
The transactions were completed online and there was no conversation between Wise and 
Ms K about them and Wises process does not involve asking the purpose of a payment. 
I am mindful that there is a difficult balance to be struck for firms between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments. Of course, those arrangements do need to accommodate that spending habits 
alter, unusual needs arise, and it will be impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant 
number of genuine payments being delayed considerably and inconveniently. To Wise, they 
appeared as genuinely authorised payments. 
All of this means that, without any interaction between Ms K and Wise before the payment 
was made, I cant see any reason why Wise would have suspected Ms K was falling victim 
to a scam and I dont think it had any reason to intervene and question the payments before 
they were made.
Ive also thought about whether Wise could have done any more to recover Ms Ks funds 
from the beneficiary bank. Both transactions were made on 20 July 2022 at 6:10pm and the 
scam was reported at 7:48pm the same day. I appreciate Ms K may have tried to call Wise 
sooner  but the funds left her account with Wise immediately and were removed from the beneficiary account within minutes. The beneficiary banks records show Ms Ks funds 
debited the scammers account at 6.11pm and 6.12pm. Therefore, even if Wise had acted 
sooner - there wasnt any more it couldve done to recover the funds. 
Ms K complained that Wise didnt respond to her queries and didnt call her back when it 
said it would. Ms K is also unhappy as Wises phone lines werent open when she tried to 
report the scam. But Ms K was able to notify Wise of this potentially fraudulent activity 
instantly and it responded within 40 minutes. There is no requirement for Wise to respond 
verbally or within 20 minutes. Wise is not signed up to the Best Practice Standards (BPS) 
which requires its members to operate 24/7 fraud reporting facilities.
Wise offered Ms K £150 for its lack of response to her follow up questions. I am satisfied that 
£150 compensation is reflective of the distress and inconvenience caused here. The scam 
occurred on 20 July 2022; Wise acknowledged Ms Ks fraud report after 40 minutes of her 
reporting it. Wise issued its fraud claim outcome five days later - on 25 July 2022. It also 
issued its final response letter on 5 August 2022  all within the time frames Id expect to 
see. So, although Ms K did experience some distress and inconvenience due to the lack of 
responsiveness from Wise whilst it was investigating her case  I think this sum fairly reflects 
the distress and inconvenience caused which was over a relatively short period of time.
I appreciate my decision will be a disappoint to Ms K. She has put time and effort into 
bringing her complaint. But I dont think Wise treated Ms K unfairly when it concluded that it 
was not responsible for refunding the money Ms K has lost. For the reasons I have 
explained, there are no grounds on which I could say that Wise should, fairly and 
reasonably, bear the responsibility for Ms Ks loss.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. I am not upholding the complaint in 
relation to Ms Ks losses to the scam.
Wise Payments Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my final decision is that Wise Payments Limited should pay Ms K £150 to put things right 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman