DRN-3643470
The complaint
Mrs K complains about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), in 
2017. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused her a 
financial loss.
Progressive Strategic Solutions LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep 
things simple Ill refer mainly to Progressive. 
What happened
Over several years, Progressive has had an ongoing relationship with Mrs K and her 
husband, Mr K, as their financial advisers. Its fair to point out that Progressive classified 
Mrs and Mr K as high net-worth investors. 
Information gathered about Mrs K at the time of this advice, in 2017, was broadly as follows:
She was 44 years old at the time and married to Mr K. Whilst Mrs K was currently on 
a career break at the point of this advice and not earning a salary, she had previously 
held a number of board level executive posts in large companies. Mr K earned a 
substantial salary. They had two young children and she was intending to return to a 
role commensurate with her experience at some point in the future. 
Mrs K had four pensions in existence at that time. Three were DB schemes, 
comprising cash equivalent transfer values (CETVs) of approximately £445,000, 
£103,000 and £37,000 respectively. Her other pension was a defined contribution 
scheme valued at around £57,000. Mrs Ks complaint relates only to the first of these 
pensions - none of the others are the subject of this complaint.
Mrs K was a deferred member of the OPS in question, having been previously 
employed in a senior role until 2007. The OPS came with certain guarantees and 
benefits such as index-linking and a 50% spouse pension. Progressive said the 
estimated annual pension Mrs K was due at the normal retirement age of 65 was 
£19,020.
Mrs K and Mr K also had significant individual and joint investment portfolios 
comprising savings, property, shares and other investments. The total value of their 
assets was said to exceed £2 million. They had no other significant debts or liabilities 
other than school fees and a moderate mortgage on a buy-to-let property.
As a consequence of their ongoing relationship, Mr K had been in dialog with Progressive in 
2017 about his own financial affairs. In early 2017, Progressive asked Mr K to tell Mrs K that 
reviewing her three DB pension schemes would be a worthwhile exercise in the light of 
generally increasing CETVs. So, with Mrs Ks consent Progressive began an assessment of 
her DB schemes and the financial options she might have going forward.  
In March 2017 Progressive produced a pension transfer report for Mrs K which comprised a 
detailed analysis of her OPS. In May 2017, Progressive wrote to Mrs K setting out her three 
DB pensions and their respective CETVs. The implication in the letter was that one of her 
DB pensions in particular had a CETV which had grown to such an extent, that transferring 
out was something that she ought to consider whilst the value was so high. Progressive said 
that based on this initial analysis the other two schemes probably wouldnt be suitable to 
transfer, but the first (the largest) might be suitable for investing in other types of financial 
instruments. The letter went on to give examples of loan notes, defensive structure products 
and infrastructure funds as the types of investments she might want to consider investing in 
if she transferred out of her OPS.
A suitability report was produced by Progressive which recommended she should transfer 
her largest OPS to a SIPP and invest the funds with a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). 
Mrs K ultimately acted on the advice and transferred out.
Mrs K complained in 2021 first to Progressive and has since referred her complaint to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into her complaint and said we should uphold it. 
They said Progressive shouldnt have recommended the transfer-out of her OPS. They said 
it wasnt in her best interests. Progressive disagrees with this and because the complaint 
cant be resolved informally, its come to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Progressive's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer
Having done this, Im not satisfied the transfer was in Mrs Ks best interests. Ive therefore 
decided to uphold the complaint largely for the same reasons given previously by our 
investigator. 
IntroductionId like to assure the parties involved that Ive read and assessed everything weve been sent 
by both sides with great care. Ive taken particular note of all the points made in 
Progressives final response to our investigators view, dated 18 July 2022. This response 
included, but was not limited to, the following areas: 
Progressive said it is not evident that the investigator fairly determined whether it 
took reasonable steps when advising Mrs K, as set out in the relevant guidance 
the investigator placed a disproportionate weight on the risks Mrs K was willing to 
take and her attitude to risk in general
the use of the critical yield figure alone to determine the financial viability of the 
transfer was not appropriate, and reference to the discount rate was not a 
requirement placed on Progressive at the time
there was insufficient regard to Mrs Ks personal overall circumstances, including her 
wealth, and her high degree of financial and business competence. 
Ive considered all these themes carefully. However, I also noted there has been a great deal 
of commentary, information and argument generated in this case and sent to our Service. 
Ive therefore rightly focussed on the key issues in what follows below.  
Ive also considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a 
DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Progressive should have only considered a transfer if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ks best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
In my view, by far the main rationale Progressive used for the transfer out of Mrs Ks OPS 
was the high transfer value it provided at the time. Progressive made a number of references 
in the information it sent to Mrs K about this value being at an historic high. It also said the 
CETV had significantly increased since 2011 when it had last visited its value. Progressive 
also made comparisons with Mrs Ks other two DB pensions and said these CETVs had not 
grown by nearly as much. Accordingly, it recommended that Mrs K use the money from her 
OPS to invest in funds which Progressive said would be more likely to yield higher returns. 
These included infrastructure investments, and in general, areas of investments which Mrs K 
now says exposed her to much more risk than she was comfortable with at the time.
I therefore began by looking at whether I thought the transfer out was in Mrs Ks best 
interests from a financial viability perspective.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing discount rates on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Progressive also referred to the critical yield rate in its transfer and suitability reports. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. Ive read carefully what Progressive said about the critical yield 
being a material factor, but not a particularly relevant one when making comparisons and I understand the points being made. However, in my view, the critical yield is part of a range 
of different things which help me consider how likely it is that a SIPP or personal pension 
could achieve the necessary investment growth for the transfer out to become financially 
viable. In addition to the critical yield, Ive also taken account of the regulator's growth 
projection rates which were published at the time.
Progressive said the critical yield required to match Mrs Ks benefits at the age of 65 was 
4.32% if she took a full pension. It didnt provide a critical yield figure relating to her taking 
tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate was 3.9% per year for 20 
years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've therefore taken all these things into account, along with Mrs Ks low-medium attitude to 
risk, as set out in Progressives suitability report, and also her term to retirement. There 
would be little point in Mrs K giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
But in this case, given the critical yield was 4.32%, I think Mrs K was likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. In Mrs Ks case, the discount rate was below the critical yield 
figure. I also think its fair to say that the lower end of the regulators projection rates, which 
would also have been below the critical yield figure, would have been an appropriate growth 
projection to consider using at the time given Mrs Ks attitude to risk. 
As well as there being evidence showing the growth rates wouldnt exceed the 4.32% critical 
yield figure over time, I think its also appropriate to emphasise that the significant fees and 
charges of the SIPP and chosen funds would most likely negatively impact upon the growth 
rate that could reasonably be expected if Mrs K transferred her pension out. So, in reality, 
growth would need to consistently be higher than this.
Ive also noted what Progressives wider analysis said about the overall value of Mrs Ks 
OPS. Ive taken this from the pension transfer report that was produced for her in May 2017. 
I note this report was later updated with what I think was certain pieces of incorrect or 
missing data which I think could have been confusing for Mrs K. This updated version 
included some errors in Mrs Ks personal information, a deletion of the previous critical yield 
figures and some of the predicted annual pension figures at retirement which are lower and 
which dont appear to be right. However, from what Progressive said in the original report, in 
order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by her existing scheme at retirement, the estimated fund required was £833,744. In 
my view, this provides a valuable indication of the guarantees and benefits typically found 
within this type of pension - and just how much Mrs K could be giving up by transferring out.
Progressive provided a number of financial planning projections which it says shows Mrs K 
would have been able to meet her needs long into her retirement. Ive considered these, but 
I dont think they were like-for-like comparisons. Our investigator pointed out these models 
were not inclusive of the costs of operating the SIPP or paying the DFM charges, which in 
both cases were not insignificant. I also dont think the benefits and guarantees found within 
Mrs Ks OPS were matched in these models. Also, as Progressive will know, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates, the 
regulators standard projections and the other comparisons Ive made, to be much more 
realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.For these reasons I dont think a transfer out of the OPS was in Mrs Ks best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Progressive has argued here. So, Ive considered these other areas below.
Flexibility, income needs and other issues
The suitability report recommended that Mrs K should transfer out of her OPS to a SIPP 
administered by a third-party firm. It said this matched her objectives which included:
To draw income in a more flexible manner given her existing pension and non-
pension assets
To be able to pass funds on to her husband and children tax efficiently
 
The improved death benefits. 
 
So, I considered whether the pension transfer objectives are likely to have come from Mrs K 
herself, rather than being put forward by Progressive to simply justify its recommendation to 
transfer out. I say this because the rationale for transferring out seems to me to be generic. 
Our investigator referred to these as stock objectives and I agree. They were not 
specifically linked to Mrs Ks circumstances and I dont think Progressive has been able to 
provide any persuasive alternative view.  
For example, whilst I acknowledge that Mrs K was a long-standing client of Progressive, I 
think the evidence is more persuasive here that the review of Mrs Ks existing DB pensions 
was something that originated, in 2017, from her advisers rather than from Mrs K herself. I 
think this is a relevant factor here. Mrs K was only 44 years old at the time and so 
Progressive should have been taking this into account together with the regulators starting 
assumption that such transfers probably wouldnt be suitable. I think that it was probably 
much too soon for Mrs K to be making any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme or making decisions about the flexibility of post-retirement income. 
On the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it could yet be said Mrs K required the flexibility in 
retirement as put forward by Progressive on her behalf. It was too soon to say, for instance, 
whether or not she had a strong need for a variable income in retirement and also too soon 
to say what her financial retirement needs might be in general. Furthermore, Mrs K had other 
pensions and assets that she could have used differently if she did in fact require flexibility in 
retirement. Similarly, Ive found the comments about passing on wealth in a tax-efficient 
manner to be no more than generic ones.
Not surprisingly, at her age, I dont think she had yet developed any concrete, or even 
emerging, retirement plans. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for her to give 
up her pensions guaranteed benefits when she didnt yet know what her needs in retirement 
would be. If Mrs K later had reason to transfer out of her DB scheme she could have done 
so closer to retirement.
Its clear that Progressive considered the transfer value of the OPS to be high, and that 
seems to have been a key consideration when recommending Mrs K transfer out of the 
scheme. But I dont think that this ought to have been a driving factor  ultimately this had to 
be weighed up against the loss of guarantees. Furthermore, it isnt possible to say whether 
or not Mrs K would have received a higher or lower transfer value in the future had she 
decided closer to retirement that she wanted to transfer out of her DB scheme. So, I dont think its something that she should have been encouraged to take advantage of when there 
were no other compelling reasons to transfer out.
Progressive also put forward the issue of death benefits as being very important to Mrs Ks 
situation. But I dont agree that these were better suited to her outside the OPS, than 
remaining inside. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most 
people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a SIPP may have been portrayed as an attractive feature to Mrs K. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits were important to her, and she might have thought it 
was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise Mrs K about what was best for her pension and retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
Progressive explored to what extent Mrs K was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs K 
was married and had children and so the spouses / dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme would have been useful to her if Mrs K predeceased them. I think these were 
good benefits under her particular scheme and Progressive didnt make the value of these 
benefits clear enough to Mrs K. These were guaranteed benefits and they escalated  they 
were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
SIPP was. And if Mrs K lived a long life, or investment returns were poor, there may not have 
been a lot left to pass on. In this context Progressive should not have encouraged Mrs K to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a SIPP over her security in 
retirement.
I also noted the issue of life insurance was discussed at the time but not taken up. In all 
likelihood, I think Mrs K would have had existing life cover. Nevertheless, at the age of 44, I 
think life insurance would have been a realistic and affordable consideration if she genuinely 
wanted to leave a legacy for her spouse / children which didnt involve her transferring out of 
her pension. In any event and given the circumstances, I think this issue is relatively minor 
which doesnt impact upon my decision in any way. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of the retirement and death benefits Mrs K already enjoyed through her 
OPS. 
Ive considered everything that was said in the suitability and pension transfer reports and I 
do acknowledge Mrs K was given a considerable amount of information. I have also 
considered that Progressive has made the point several times that Mrs K was an intelligent 
person who held a number of senior roles whilst employed. It says Mrs K agreed to the 
transfer at the time and that she understood the process.
However, Ive seen that Mrs K accepts these things and also that she had previously 
demonstrated a knowledge and good oversight of her investments in the past, including 
those aspects managed both for her, and by her. But Mrs K also says that none of these 
things indicate a detailed knowledge about pensions, or specifically, the complexities 
involved in pension transfers. I think this is a very reasonable point. 
Conversely, in providing regulated financial advice Progressives job here was to really 
understand what Mrs Ks needs were and to recommend what was in her best interests. Her 
previous occupations and investment history dont detract from the responsibilities 
Progressive had when advising her about this DB transfer process. Progressives job 
therefore wasnt to simply transact what Mrs K may have thought she wanted at the time and give her enough information to make her own decision  it had to give her suitable advice 
and recommend what was in her best interests. Overall, I dont think Progressive did this.
Use of a DFM 
Progressive recommended that Mrs K use a DFM to manage her pension funds. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of her OPS wasnt suitable for 
Mrs K, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mrs K should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage her funds if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
In my decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice given to Mrs K was suitable. 
Mrs K was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income with her OPS. However, 
by transferring out, she was likely to obtain lower overall retirement benefits. The discount 
rate and the regulators growth projections both indicated that Mrs K would be unlikely to be 
able to grow her funds outside the scheme, to an extent that made transferring worthwhile, in 
accordance with her attitude to risk. And Progressives own analysis provided an insight into 
the cost of the valuable guarantees and benefits contained within her OPS that shed be 
giving up if she transferred out. 
So, to be clear, from a financial viability perspective, the transfer was not in her best 
interests.
There were also no other compelling reasons to transfer out of this pension scheme. Mrs K 
was only 44 years old. Consequently, she hadnt yet made any retirement plans and 
Progressive couldnt realistically say what her needs in retirement would be. Progressives 
recommendation was based substantially on the CETV being high and Mrs K investing the 
transferred funds in areas which were designed to offer comparatively high rates of 
investment growth. It supported this rationale with generic statements about Mrs K requiring 
future income flexibility, better death benefits and passing on wealth more tax efficiently. Ive 
explained why I dont think these things were applicable to her situation. And in any event, 
Mrs K had other pensions and assets that she could have used to give her flexibility if she so 
required. To my mind, there was no reason for her to give up a substantial guaranteed 
income in retirement when she had other pensions that she could use flexibly or leave to her 
dependents.  
Mrs K was, by most standards, a wealthy individual who already had an existing and wide 
portfolio of different investments and assets. In her situation, I think Mrs K should have been 
advised to use the pension in the way it was designed. This was Mrs Ks largest pension and 
I think by remaining in the OPS she was complementing the other investments she had 
elsewhere at the time. 
Finally, I considered whether I think, if Progressive had properly recommended that Mrs K 
shouldnt transfer out, she would have accepted that advice. As Ive said, Mrs K was a long-
standing Progressive client and Ive seen throughout the documentation in this case that she 
took a careful note of the advice it offered. I think if Progressive had provided more 
comprehensive and balanced advice in this case, ultimately advising that she not transfer 
out of her OPS, I think she would have followed that advice. Ive seen nothing to persuade 
me that Mrs K was motivated to transfer out for any particular reason at the time  indeed, 
she couldnt access her pension for another 10 years. So, Im satisfied that she would also 
have come to the conclusion that transferring out wasnt something she ought to do. I think Progressive should have advised Mrs K to remain in her OPS. In light of this, I think 
Progressive should compensate Mrs K for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's 
defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs K whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. She has 
said she would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before her complaint is 
settled. So I consider its fair that Progressive waits for the outcome of the consultation to 
settle this complaint.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs K, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. 
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mrs K.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance /rules to come 
into effect to determine this complaint. 
Progressive must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs K within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Progressive 
has received notification of Mrs K acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Progressive to pay Mrs K.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Progressive deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs K how much has been taken off. Progressive should give Mrs K a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs K asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Illiquidity - my current understanding is that some elements of Mrs Ks investments in the 
SIPP are illiquid, meaning they cant be readily sold on the open market. If this is the case it 
can be complicated to establish its value.
To calculate the compensation in this event, Progressive should agree an amount with the 
SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs 
and take ownership of the investments.
If Progressive is genuinely unable to buy the investments, it should give the SIPP a nil value 
for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything Progressive has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet 
to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Progressive may ask Mrs K to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment in future. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. 
Progressive will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Progressive asks 
Mrs K to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent 
upon provision of that undertaking.
If Mrs K wants to close the SIPP and the SIPP only exists because the illiquid investments 
prevent her from doing so, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out 
above how this might be achieved by Progressive taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mrs K can discuss with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, if Mrs K wants to close the SIPP, I think its fair that 
Progressive pays Mrs K an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. 
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I direct Progressive 
Strategic Solutions LLP to pay Mrs K the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Progressive Strategic Solutions LLP to pay Mrs K any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Progressive Strategic Solutions LLP to pay Mrs K any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Progressive Strategic Solutions LLP pays Mrs K the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs K.
If Mrs K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Progressive Strategic 
Solutions LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding if she doesnt accept. Further, it is unlikely that 
Mrs K can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs K may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman