DRN-2120501
The complaint
Mrs E complains that a finance agreement was mis-sold to her as Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Porsche Financial Services, didnt transfer a 
finance agreement but instead created a new one.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs E, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law says that the finance agreement should not have been misrepresented to 
Mrs E. If I was persuaded there was a misrepresentation and that Mrs E would not have 
proceeded with the agreement if the misrepresentation hadnt happened, then Id ask VWFS 
to take some further action.
I understand that Mrs E wanted her husbands agreement to simply be transferred into her 
name, but Ive considered VWFSs submissions and I understand, and accept, that a 
transfer was not possible.
In those circumstances I think the dealership have done as much as they could to replicate 
the agreement in a new one. 
Mrs E says she was simply asked to sign the paperwork and that nobody explained the 
agreement wasnt being transferred. Thats disputed by VWFS.
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs E to check the agreement she was entering into. I can 
see she signed the pre-contract checklist to say she had and that she understood the 
finance that was being offered. So, on the evidence I have, I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest there was sufficient information this agreement was misrepresented to her.
And, regardless, of whether the business explained the contract was not a transfer but a new 
agreement, I think its likely Mrs E would have proceeded. Shes explained that the main 
reason to transfer the agreement was so that the debt wasnt registered in her husbands 
name and, as the agreements were broadly similar, I think its likely she would have 
proceeded even if she had known it was a new agreement.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask VWFS to take any further action.
I understand Mrs E is also concerned about the lack of a warranty but that isnt something 
that was being financed by VWFS and Im therefore not able to consider complaints about it 
against the business.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman