DRN-3087329
The complaint
Miss H complains that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, took too long to provide a 
refund for a faulty hot tub she bought through credit provided by them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Studio, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H initially tried to return the faulty goods in April 2021 but there were collection 
problems and they were eventually collected on 14 May 2021. I can see there has been 
some confusion about whether and when the refund was processed but having reviewed 
Miss Hs statements I can see the refund was received into her account on 30 June 2021. 
I understand there were some issues locating the returned goods, but I dont think its fair to 
hold Miss H responsible for that. 
Putting things right
Studio offered Miss H £20 compensation for the delays she experienced but I dont think 
thats enough in the circumstances, and Id agree with the investigator that they should pay 
an additional £80. I think thats a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience the 
delays caused Miss H.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Studio Retail Limited to pay 
Miss H £100 compensation less £20 if thats already been paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman