DRN-3716625
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how DTW Associates Limited  trading as Auto Advance treated her 
in relation to a fixed sum loan agreement when she got into financial difficulty. Miss S also 
says the lending should never have been given to her.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss S took a fixed sum loan with Auto Advance, secured against her 
car. This type of borrowing is frequently referred to as a log book loan.
Miss S borrowed £2,000 and was due to repay £195.56 a month for 36 months. 
Unfortunately, Miss S got into financial difficulty. She told Auto Advance in February 2021 
that she had been impacted by COVID-19. She said she could afford to make 30% of her 
monthly repayments for the next two months and then would be able to resume paying in 
full. Auto Advance agreed to a reduced payment of £60 on the account for two months.
In April 2021 Miss S told Auto Advance she had changed jobs and hadnt been paid as much 
as she expected to, but said she would be paid later in the month. Auto Advance asked to 
see copies of Miss Ss new payslips so it could discuss payments and arrears. It appears 
Miss S didnt provide this.
In May 2021 Miss S sent Auto Advance a screenshot of her bank account. Auto Advance 
said it couldnt verify this, and asked her to send two months bank statements to allow it to 
discuss the arrears and repayments. It appears these werent received.
Later in the month, a third party contacted Auto Advance on Miss Ss behalf and told it shed 
been in hospital. Auto Advance explained it couldnt communicate about Miss Ss account 
with the third party due to data protection.
In June 2021 Miss S contacted Auto Advance and said shed come out of hospital but hadnt 
been paid. She said shed bring the account up to date as soon as possible. A few days later 
she told Auto Advance she was due to attend a meeting with her manager in the afternoon 
to discuss pay. Auto Advance asked Miss S to provide it with bank statements in order to 
discuss the account. It doesnt appear these were sent.
At the end of June 2021 Auto Advance sent Miss S a notice of sum in arrears for £466.68. It 
sent another notice in July 2021.
At the end of July 2021 Auto Advance sent Miss S a letter explaining it would be issuing a 
default notice on the account. It said she could voluntarily surrender the vehicle to it, which it 
would sell at auction to recover any balance owed.
Auto Advance then sent Miss S a default notice. This explained £466.68 needed to be paid 
by 13 August 2021 to meet the terms of the default. It explained if this wasnt done it may 
repossess Miss Ss car.
On 4 August 2021 Miss S emailed Auto Advance and told it shed been in and out of 
hospital. She said she was now hopefully back at home. She asked about the arrears on the 
account. The same day Auto Advance emailed her and said the arrears on the account were 
£662.24. It said the settlement figure was £3,255.54 and was valid until 25 August 2021. And 
it pointed out the outstanding default notice expired on 13 August 2021 and the car could be 
repossessed if this wasnt met.
On 12 August 2021 Miss S emailed Auto Advance and said she would ensure the balance 
was cleared this month. The same day Auto Advance asked her to confirm the date and 
method of payment.
On 16 August 2021 Auto Advance instructed a third party to repossess the car. This 
company contacted Miss S on 20 August 2021. Shortly after this Miss S contacted Auto 
Advance and asked for account details to make a payment. Auto Advance told her the 
account had been passed for repossession and she needed to speak to the other company. 
Then in September 2021 the car was repossessed. 
In October 2021 it appears the account was settled.
Miss S made our service aware of the situation and complained to Auto Advance. She 
complained at different times about different points, but Ill keep things simple by explaining 
this here in one summary.
Miss S said that she shouldnt have been lent the money in the first place as this was 
irresponsible. She said COVID-19 had affected her and she hadnt been supported through 
her illness. She said she was in hospital and was unable to speak to Auto Advance  and it 
wouldnt speak to a third party. She says she was told she had until 25 August 2021 to repay 
the arrears but the car was arranged to be repossessed before this. And she said Auto 
Advance called her work about the debt which caused embarrassment.
Auto Advance responded and said, in summary, that it ran substantial checks on Miss S 
before it agreed to lend which showed the loan was affordable for her. It said it couldnt 
speak to a third party without permission about the account because of data protection. And 
it said it acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions Miss S agreed to when it 
repossessed the car.
Miss S remained unhappy and our service began to investigate. Our investigator issued an 
opinion. She explained, in summary, that the checks carried out prior to the lending being 
given were proportionate and showed a disposable income. She said Auto Advance had 
supported Miss S in line with her request when she said shed been affected by COVID-19. 
She said Auto Advance were right not to discuss the account with a third party. She said she 
didnt think Auto Advance had acted inappropriately by trying to contact Miss S at work. And 
she said she thought it had acted fairly when it repossessed the car.
Miss S remained unhappy. She said Auto Advance didnt support her when it knew she was 
ill and in hospital. And she said Auto Advance shouldnt have communicated by letter.
Our investigator said this didnt change her opinion. So, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.Miss S complains about a fixed sum loan agreement  in this case a log book loan. Entering 
into consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied 
I can consider Miss Ss complaint about Auto Advance.
Miss S has made various complaint points, so Ill address these in turn.
Should Miss S have been lent to?
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ss complaint. 
Auto Advance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Auto Advance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was affordable for Miss S before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two key questions that I need to answer in order to fairly and 
reasonably decide Miss Ss complaint. These are: 
1. Did Auto Advance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss S would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences? If not  what would these checks have shown?
2. Did Auto Advance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Miss Ss case.
Auto Advance have explained before it lent to Miss S it ran an automated income and 
expenditure check on Miss S based on her bank accounts. It also ran a credit search and 
obtained a copy of Miss Ss credit file. It then decided further checks should be done, so 
requested three months worth of bank statements from Miss S. It then said all of this data 
was reviewed by an underwriter. 
Thinking about this, Im satisfied these checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Auto Advance explained that the checks showed a disposable income every month, taking 
into account all of Miss Ss commitments. So, it said it was happy the £195.56 a month was 
affordable for her.
I accept Miss S had some adverse information on her credit file at the time. But, this was a 
high interest loan, secured against her car. So I dont think its unreasonable for Auto 
Advance to not automatically decline the loan at this point. More importantly, Auto Advance 
did a detailed review of Miss Ss accounts and her income and expenditure which showed a 
disposable income once the new lending was taken into account.
Considering everything here, Im satisfied the lending was neither irresponsible to give to 
Miss S, nor unaffordable for her.
COVID-19 supportMiss S says Auto Advance didnt do enough to support her when she was ill. I can see she 
contacted Auto Advance in February 2021 to tell it shed been affected by COVID-19. At this 
point the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had released its finalised guidance about car 
finance to firms to support consumers affected by COVID-19 which came into effect on 25 
November 2020.
Ive considered this guidance, along with the FCAs earlier guidance on COVID-19 and the 
responsibilities set out by the FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Miss S specifically requested a 70% reduction in her monthly repayments for two months. 
She explained to Auto Advance why this specific period was suitable, and confirmed she had 
the funds to make 30% repayments for that period. Auto Advance then put this in place. 
I can then see towards the end of this period, Auto Advance got in touch with Miss S to let 
her know her regular payments would be starting again, and asked her to contact it if she 
needed further support which would be available.
Miss S did get in touch later in the month, but said repayment issues were due to her 
changing jobs and her salary payment date changing.
I appreciate Miss S went on to have further health issues and I was sorry to read about this. 
But, from what Ive seen, minimal details about this were given to Auto Advance.
Thinking about everything here, I think Auto Advance acted fairly and reasonably given the 
information it had.
Speaking to third party
Miss S is unhappy that Auto Advance wouldnt speak to a third party about the account when 
she was ill.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied the third party didnt have permission to act on Miss Ss 
behalf in relation to the account. I can see Auto Advance explained this to the third party and 
asked Miss S to contact it. It also appears it explained to Miss S how to add authorisation for 
the third party on the account.
Im satisfied various data protection laws, including the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) applied here. Auto Advance acted as I wouldve expected it to when it declined to 
discuss Miss Ss account with an unauthorised third party.
So, it follows Im satisfied Auto Advance didnt do anything wrong here.
Contact on work number
Miss S is unhappy Auto Advance tried to speak to her at work. Auto Advance have explained 
its policy is to try to contact a consumer on a work number if other methods have failed and 
there is a risk of repossession. It also confirmed the only details left or given would be a 
contact name and number.
I do appreciate Miss Ss point here. And I can understand why she wouldnt want Auto 
Advance to contact her at work. I also think this a somewhat unusual thing to do. But, I need 
to consider the overall situation here. Miss Ss car was indeed at risk of repossession. I can 
see multiple attempts were being made to contact Miss S through various means which she 
didnt respond to. And its fair to say she wasnt keeping Auto Advance updated with her 
situation nor responding to its contact.Thinking about things in the round here, I dont think in this specific case Auto Advance 
acted unreasonably.
Repossession of car
Ive thought carefully about what happened here. Miss S says the car shouldnt have been 
repossessed and Auto Advance did this before the date agreed.
Ill cover off the issue with the date first. A default notice was sent to Miss S that explained 
the conditions needed to be met by 13 August 2021. Miss S contacted Auto Advance on 4 
August 2021 and asked about the arrears. Auto Advance replied and gave Miss S a 
settlement figure that it said was valid until 25 August 2021.
I think this is where the confusion arose from. But, looking at the email that was sent, I think 
it was reasonably clear that 25 August 2021 applies to the settlement figure  not the date 
the default expired. I say this as Auto Advance specifically pointed out later in the email that 
the default expired on 13 August 2021 and it explained the consequences of this not being 
met. 
It follows this that Im satisfied Auto Advance didnt repossess the car before a deadline it 
gave to Miss S.
Ill go on to consider the general repossession of the car. Firstly, in the terms and conditions 
of the agreement Miss S signed, it says:
if you default on the loan and we cannot agree an alternative repayment arrangement. We 
can serve a default notice upon you giving you 14 days notice of our intention to repossess. 
After such notice has been given we can take possession of the Vehicle without needing to 
go to court
So, from this I think Miss S agreed to the fact her car could be repossessed following a 
default notice being issued. Im satisfied here that a default notice was issued following two 
notices of sum in arrears and the conditions of the default were not met. And Im satisfied an 
alternative repayment arrangement wasnt in place.
Ive considered the general situation here. Miss S only made two full repayments to the 
agreement. She then paid the two £60 instalments as agreed, but then didnt make any 
further repayments from March 2021. So, I think its reasonable a default notice was issued.
Ive also considered Miss Ss situation. I accept Miss S was ill and appeared to be in and out 
of hospital. But I think its fair to say that I dont think she kept Auto Advance fully updated 
with what was happening. 
Miss S did get in touch with Auto Advance a couple of times to say the arrears would be paid 
off, but she didnt give specific details. It doesnt appear she responded to Auto Advance 
when it asked her for information. And I can see Auto Advance was frequently attempting to 
contact her via phone, email, and SMS text messages to discuss things further when she 
was in arrears.
Ive then considered that Auto Advance gave Miss S the option of voluntarily surrendering 
the car before it was repossessed. And it continued to try to contact Miss S for a short period 
after the default notice expired before instruction to repossess the car was given.Thinking about things in the round here, I dont think Auto Advance acted unreasonably 
when it repossessed the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman