DRN-4388777
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Redmayne-Bentley LLP (RB) managed her portfolio 
between March 2020 and February 2021. In particular, she complains about not being able 
to speak to her investment manager in the early days of the pandemic, and being charged 
1% management fee when her portfolio wasnt reinvested during this period.
What happened
Mrs S, and her husband Mr S, (who had a separate portfolio which is the subject of a
separate complaint) had a portfolio that was being managed on a discretionary basis by RB.
Ive referred to both Mr and Mrs S where relevant below as the decisions around their
portfolios were made jointly, and mirrored each other.
On 11 March 2020 Mr and Mrs S spoke to RB to convey their concerns about the impact of
the coronavirus pandemic on their portfolio and on economic markets more generally. RB
explained its view that this was temporary and no action needed to be taken, which Mr and
Mrs S appeared to accept.
However, over the next few days Mr and Mrs Ss concerns around the pandemic and the
amount of money their portfolios were losing intensified, and on 16 March 2020 they called
RB again. On this particular day their investment manager was unavailable, so they spoke to
someone else. During this conversation it became clear that Mr and Mrs S were deeply
concerned about the losses on their portfolios, and had decided to pull the plug. Acting on
their instructions, RB disinvested the portfolios and retained the proceeds as cash.
Shortly after this, RB wrote to Mr and Mrs S to explain that it understood their reasons for
making this decision, and this had been a difficult time for a number of investors. It explained
that it would continue monitoring the markets and external events, and would be in touch at
the appropriate time to discuss reinvesting. This happened in July 2020. RB wrote to Mr and
Mrs S to set out a strategy to reinvest 30% of their portfolios, while retaining the remainder
as cash in order to accommodate Mr and Mrs Ss lower risk tolerance. Shortly after receiving
this email, Mr and Mrs S called RB and explained that they needed more time before re-
investing.
During the several months that followed Mr and Mrs S continued to be reluctant to re-enter
the market, whilst RB continued to charge a management fee by virtue of its role as
discretionary manager. In February 2021, Mr and Mrs S spoke to RB and the decision was
made that their continued reluctance to reinvest meant that the arrangement was no longer
tenable.
They agreed to revert their accounts execution only, in such a way as to stop the levying of
RBs management fees while giving Mr and Mrs S the time they needed to decide when to
re-enter the market.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023. In it I said the following:
In my view, the key issues are Mrs Ss original decision to encash the portfolio in March
2020  and subsequently, RBs lack of investment while still taking its management fee. Ill
deal with each issue in turn.
At the outset, there is an additional concern which Mrs S raised specifically to do with her
portfolio. I understand Mrs S originally raised a concern about not being included in 
discussions to change the account she had with RB from discretionary to execution only. I 
understand that this was because the conversation about both portfolios was had with Mr S.
However, for the reasons Ive given below, Im satisfied that it was appropriate for this to
happen in February 2021  and in fact I consider it shouldve happened sooner. I 
acknowledge that RB ought to have checked with Mrs S that she was also happy with this
change in February 2021  but in my view, given the circumstances, this was the right
decision for her.
The decision to liquidate the portfolios
Ive considered this aspect of Mrs Ss complaint very carefully. March 2020 was a difficult
time for many investors all over the world, and the decision to stay invested at such an
uncertain time or disinvest at what was potentially the lowest point in the market, was a
difficult one to take.
Taking all of Mrs Ss submissions into account, including the contact she had with her
investment manager and with RB between 11 March 2020 and 16 March 2020, Im not
persuaded theres anything that RB did wrong.
Mrs S had entrusted her investment manager to manage her portfolio, and had spoken to
him about the pandemic and what was happening. Im not persuaded that the advice she
received in that initial call was unsuitable, nor that it was inherently wrong for her portfolio to
remain invested. Whilst there was risk in remaining invested, there was also risk in
crystallising the losses sustained at that point and missing out on a rebound in the market. 
I can also understand why Mrs S had second thoughts, and called back on 16 March 2020
having looked at the matter herself. But looking at the transcript of that call, its very clear to
me that both Mr and Mrs S were determined to pull the plug on it now before it goes any
worse. She had already been told by her investment manager to hold steady  but she had
decided that this isnt what she wanted to do. Whilst there was nothing wrong with this
approach at the time, and clearly Mrs S was entitled to instruct RB as she pleased, I dont
agree this is something RB can be held responsible for. And Im not persuaded the absence
of her specific investment manager, on that particular day, made any difference.
I say this because Mrs S already knew her investment managers views on what actions to
take, and the notes of the call suggest that Mrs S had already made his decision.
Once that decision had been taken, the issue then became when to reinvest the money.
Reinvestment and levying fees 
Mrs Ss portfolio was supposed to be managed on a discretionary basis, and had a bespoke 
fee arrangement of 1% plus vat, and no other charges for buying or selling investments. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that Mrs S accepted this arrangement, in part because of a 
significant restructuring of her portfolio at the start.
Mrs Ss complaint is that RB didnt manage her portfolio in that way between March 2020
and February 2021, and it was therefore unfair for it to be taking that fee. But I dont agree
thats entirely correct.I say this because the fee was not just about decisions to buy and sell investments on Mrs
Ss behalf, as those decisions dont happen in isolation. They require assessments of the
market, individual investments and the portfolio itself. In Mrs Ss case they also involved a
careful consideration of when to re-enter a particularly volatile market in unprecedented
circumstances. Its clear to me therefore that there was a period of time when RB continued
to manage the portfolio, albeit in cash, with a view to re-entering the market at a suitable
time for Mrs S. It was fair and reasonable that it continue receiving its fee for this service.
And I can see that RB did proactively try to do this between July 2020 and November 2020,
when I can see evidence of emails and phone calls between Mr and Mrs S and their 
investment manager. During this time its evident to me that Mr and Mrs S did not want to re-
enter the market  and so many of their complaint points around this Im not persuaded have
any merit. I dont think it would be fair to criticise RB for not going ahead with an investment
that their clients were insistent they didnt want, and at the same time its also clear to me
that Mr and Mrs S were not ready to terminate the relationship  or else thats something
they couldve done at any point. During this time Mrs S was aware of the fees that were
being charged, because that was the subject of her husbands letter on 19 October 2020 and 
which RB (I think correctly under the relevant regulations) interpreted as a complaint. And 
she was clearly aware that no investment had been carried out, because she had told RB on 
separate occasions that she was not ready.
The key issue for me, however, is that from November 2020 onwards it must have been 
evident to RB that after 8 months, Mr and Mrs S were no longer benefiting from a 
discretionary service.
In my view, continuing to wait for Mr and Mrs S to make a decision that they were evidently
finding hard to make was not fair and, crucially, wasnt in their best interests.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published the Principles, which set out its broad
expectations of firms. Particularly relevant in this complaint is Prin 6  Customers Interests.
This says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCA also published Conduct of Business rules (COBS) which set out the rules it
expected firms to adhere to when carrying on regulated activities. COBS 2.1 is, in my view,
particularly relevant here. At the time it said:
(1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
(2) This rule applies:
a. In relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client;
b. In relation to MiFID, equivalent third country or optional exemption business for 
any client; and
c. For a management company, this rule applies in relation to any UCITS scheme 
or EEA UCITS scheme the firm manages.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that by 1 November 2020 at the latest RB ought
to have realised that the arrangement it had with Mrs S was no longer in her interest  and
that given their particular circumstances, it was no longer appropriate for it to continue
charging her a management fee for the discretionary service it was supposed to be
providing.I say this firstly because it ought to have been obvious to RB that part of the reason Mr and
Mrs S were reluctant to end the relationship was because of their mistaken impression that
they would have to forego the ISA status of their money if RB were to return it  when in
reality RB couldve transferred that cash to a cash ISA of their choosing at any point. This
wouldve retained the ISA status of the money, ended their relationship with RB and allowed
the money to earn some interest, albeit minimal at the time, without paying any fees.
Ive seen no evidence that this was ever really explained to Mr and Mrs S, and I can see no
reason why it wasnt. Particularly after Mr Ss letter in November 2020, it was very clear that
the prospect of having the cash returned was something both of them were worried about in
terms of losing the ISA wrapper.
But most importantly, by November 2020 it was abundantly clear that RB was no longer
really able to manage Mrs Ss portfolio. It was unable to invest on her behalf because of her
clear instructions that she did not want to do so. And it had been in this position for many
months  during which time Mrs Ss portfolio was being reduced by the fees that it was
continuing to charge, for a service it was not entirely providing.
At this stage, RB ought to have realised that a discretionary service was no longer in Mrs Ss
best interests, because her capital was being eroded by fees for no benefit  and this was
the very risk that Mrs S was unwilling to take by re-entering the market. In my view by this
point, it ought to have proactively explained to Mrs S that it was unable to discharge the
mandate it had agreed with her.
And it ought to have reassured Mrs S that the money could either be kept with RB in an
execution only capacity and earn no interest, or it could be transferred to a cash ISA of her
choosing in such a way as to earn some interest while retaining the ISA status.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Mrs S was not treated fairly by RB, and I consider that
some compensation ought to be paid.
I recommended compensation and a payment for the trouble and upset Mrs S experienced. 
RB didnt reply to my provisional decision, but Mrs S did. She and her husband provided 
detailed comments. In summary:
They outlined the legal relationship which they believe applied to their arrangement 
with RB. 
Their losses have been exacerbated by being out of the market since they first made 
the complaint, when the market has gone up by 50%. 
They have been denied natural justice by virtue of only having a transcript of the call I 
refer to in my provisional decision, and not the actual call. 
Whether or not they had already made up their mind to liquidate on 16 March wasnt 
relevant, because it wasnt their fault that their investment manager was absent on 
that day. 
My provisional decision confirmed that the arrangement continued after 16 March 
and therefore, according to Mr and Mrs S, RB was contractually obliged to manage 
their investments, and was liable for failure to do so.
They disagreed that their complaint was about claiming fees  their complaint was 
about the failure to RBs failure to discharge its obligations under the contract. 
They said that if RB had reinvested the portfolio after 16 March 2020 they wouldve 
been happy clients and there wouldve been no complaint from them. They reiterated that they had no role in the investment process and that the contract 
required RB to invest on their behalf  and crucially, it wasnt their fault that RB did 
not do so. 
They also said that they wanted any FOS award to be paid into their ISA, in order to 
maintain its tax exempt status. They said this meant they had no alternative to leave 
our ISAs with RB, which they claimed resulted in horrendous losses. They said the 
markets had gone up 50%. 
They concluded by saying they would not accept my proposed remedy and would 
seek redress via the courts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to see that Mrs S disagrees with my provisional conclusions. I understand her 
comments and the reasons why she continues to believe that RB ought to be liable for its 
failure to invest her portfolio after 16 March 2020 when she instructed it to sell her holdings 
down to cash. 
Whilst Ive read and considered her comments very carefully, Im not persuaded to change 
my provisional conclusions  and therefore I confirm those provisional findings as final. 
Theres no doubt that Mr and Mrs S had an agreement with RB which remained in place post 
16 March 2020. But this agreement was more than just investing without recourse to Mr and 
Mrs S. Im not persuaded that this is all the regulator expected from RB, and therefore Mr 
and Mrs Ss interpretation of RBs obligations is in my view not accurate. In order to 
discharge its regulatory obligations, RB couldnt simply reinvest the money without reference 
to Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, attitude to risk or objectives. 
And whilst Mr and Mrs S have said that they wouldve been happy customers had RB 
proceeded to reinvest their portfolios after 16 March, that is only because with the benefit of 
hindsight, they now know their investments wouldve grown in value. But in 2020 when this 
issue arose, no-one knew precisely how the markets would react in the short term, or when 
the right time to reinvest was. 
Mr and Mrs S had already been told before the 16 March 2020 that there was no need to sell 
their investments  and RB kept to that. It was only upon their specific instruction that RB 
agreed to sell their holdings on 16 March. For reasons Ive already explained, the absence of 
their investment manager on that specific day in my view had no impact  and further, I dont 
agree its unreasonable that there may be occasions when a specific individual is 
unavailable. Mr and Mrs S had already been told what their investment managers view of 
the market was, and why he didnt consider selling their investments was necessary. Given 
the circumstances, its plain that Mr and Mrs S were not comfortable with that decision and, 
more importantly, the risks of that decision. Whilst this was an entirely reasonable position to 
take at the time, it is not something I can blame or hold RB liable for. 
In essence, after this date, its clear to me that Mr and Mrs Ss attitude to risk had changed. 
Mindful of the volatility in the market, and the uncertainties around the pandemic, its very 
clear to me that they were reluctant to have their money reinvested. In my view, RB was duty 
bound to take Mr and Mrs Ss new circumstances into account. It could not simply ignore 
their views by virtue of the agreement they had in place. I explained in my provisional decision the opportunities RB had to reinvest Mr and Mrs Ss 
portfolios, and the clear instructions it received not do so. Nothing in Mr and Mrs Ss 
comments has caused me to reconsider those findings. 
I remain of the view that RB was right to take into account their customers objectives and 
attitude to risk at such a difficult time  and in my view made sufficient attempts to propose a 
course of action to Mr and Mrs S that wouldve seen their portfolios reinvested. I note that, 
for example, RBs proposal in July 2020 amounted to a significantly reduced equity exposure 
compared to the portfolio pre-pandemic  but this was still not acceptable to Mr and Mrs S.
I also disagree with Mr and Mrs Ss view of the contract. In my view, the issue here is that 
RB ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs S were not comfortable with a discretionary 
arrangement at that moment in time. It ought to have understood this, and proactively ended 
the arrangement in order to act in their best interests precisely to avoid them paying a fee for 
a service that was no longer appropriate for them. I dont agree the remedy here is to hold 
RB responsible for investment decisions it didnt make, and which Mr and Mrs S had 
consistently instructed it not to make. In my view, for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision and in this final decision, the fair and reasonable remedy in this case is for Mr and 
Mrs S to be refunded the fees they paid for the management of their portfolio. And so this is 
what I set out below. 
Putting things right
In reaching my decision on how to put things right for Mrs S, Ive taken into
account a number of factors:
I cannot say, on balance, whether Mrs S wouldve agreed to transfer her money 
away from RB. She did not do so in February 2021, and her complaint about that 
decision, and not being included in those discussions, shows that this wasnt an easy 
decision for her. Furthermore, Im also satisfied that she would not have gone ahead 
with such a decision unless her husband did likewise. Therefore Im not persuaded I 
can say on balance that Mrs S wouldve taken this course of action and as a result, 
Im not proposing to award any interest.
I am persuaded, however, that if RB had taken ownership of the issue and 
proactively explained to Mrs S what her options were, and told her that a 
discretionary mandate was no longer right for her, she wouldve accepted its advice 
much as she eventually did in February 2021.
Taking into account the correspondence in October 2020, as well as Mr Ss phone 
call on 24 October 2020 with RB, Ive decided that this decision wouldve been taken 
on or around 1 November 2020. Its evident that there is no way of knowing precisely 
when this action wouldve happened  but Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable 
to use this date as the latest point at which fees ought to have been stopped.
Im also satisfied that this matter has caused Mrs S a degree of distress and upset for 
which she should be compensated for. Her husbands letter of 25 October 2020, as 
well as all subsequent correspondence, shows that the matter has taken a 
considerable toll on her as well as her husband. I accept that some of this impact 
was caused by the pandemic and its effects on her portfolio. 
But Im satisfied that RB also contributed to this upset and for that reason, ought to 
pay some compensation.
For these reasons, I make the following award:
Refund Mrs Ss fees for the period 1 November 2020 until the account was changed to execution only. I appreciate Mrs S is keen for this money to be remitted to her ISA 
account, but I dont consider that will be possible without using her ISA allowance. 
Given that his money has remained uninvested and not earning any interest, Im 
satisfied this makes no material difference.
Pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience RBs actions and inactions have 
caused her  in particular its failure to proactively advise her at a time when she was 
clearly not understanding the options available to her.
I note that Mr and Mrs S have continued to keep their portfolios with RB in the belief that this 
was necessary in the event that this service awarded compensation. Whilst I acknowledge 
why they consider this decision has caused them a financial loss, it isnt a loss I can put right 
 it wasnt caused by anything RB did or didnt do. Furthermore, I dont agree there was any 
need for them to do this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and award compensation to her as 
outlined above. If Mrs S does not accept this final decision, it will not be legally binding. This 
means Redmayne Bentley will not be obliged to pay compensation, but she will be free to 
pursue the matter elsewhere. If Mrs S accepts this final decision, it will become legally 
binding on Redmayne Bentley  however her ability to pursue the matter elsewhere may be 
extinguished.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman