DRN-1510129
The complaint
Miss A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her 
reject a faulty car. She also says it placed adverse markers on her credit file having failed to 
take direct debit payments.
What happened
In December 2018 Miss A acquired a second-hand car costing £39,000 funded by a deposit 
of £4,000 and the balance with a finance agreement. The car was used by her brother and 
she called VFS to ask that the direct debit be taken from his account. VFS said any payment 
by direct debit had to come from an account in her name. However, it said that her brother 
could set up a standing order from his account. Miss A agreed to do that. 
Within four weeks of taking delivery of the car the cruise control stopped working. It was 
returned to the dealer who sent the car to another dealer to repair it. A couple of weeks later 
the cruise control failed again.  The car was taken in for repair and this was completed in 
July 2019. Miss A was provided with a courtesy car. Miss A also said that she had a 
puncture and the locking wheel nut was missing. 
She complained to VFS and it apologised for any confusion about her payments and paid 
her £20 compensation. It also removed the markers in her credit file. She remained unhappy 
and brought her complaint to this service. She said that she had been unable to obtain a 
mortgage as a result of the adverse entries on her credit file.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
She didnt think the issue with the cruise control was such that it merited rejection and it had 
been repaired. Nor did the missing locking nut suggest that rejection was appropriate. 
However, she did think some compensation was due.
As for the adverse marks on Miss As credit file she concluded that Miss A had said her 
brother would be paying by standing order which led to the direct debit being cancelled. VFS 
had sent reminder letters to her on 18 and 28 February and again on 23 March. Although 
Miss A said she hadnt received anything the letters had been correctly addressed. 
She noted Miss A had sent her credit scores and a letter from her financial adviser who 
confirmed that main lenders had rejected her application and as a result she had missed the 
chance of buying an investment property. However, she didnt consider that this 
demonstrated clearly that the cause of the problem was solely the adverse entries. 
Miss A didnt agree and said she encountered further problems with the car and the boot 
would open randomly. The investigator suggested she take this up with VFS and if the 
matter could not be resolved it could be considered by this service separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is not disputed that there was an issue with the cruise control, but I can also see that this 
didnt prevent the car being used. The records show in August 2019 the milometer showed it 
had covered 14,133 miles. I appreciate the inconvenience having to return the car several 
time may have caused. That said, I note that in the call Miss A made to VFS on 21 
December 2028 she said the car was for her brother and if that was the case it would 
suggest her inconvenience would have been minimal.
The car has been repaired and I can see no basis to suggest rejection. I know she 
encountered a separate issue more recently, but I have seen nothing to show that fault was 
present at the point of sale and in any event it should first be referred to VFS before this 
service can consider it. 
On the matter of the adverse entries on her credit file I have not seen any explanation as to 
why a standing order wasnt set up by her brother as Miss A said it would be. She was told 
that any missed payments could affect her credit rating and VFS wrote to her on several 
occasions to let her know that money was outstanding. I appreciate she says she didnt 
receive these, but they were sent to the correct address and they gave her or her brother the 
opportunity to rectify the problem. I see that the records provided by VFS show the missing 
payments were made on 11 and 12 March respectively. I dont consider this points to the 
error resting with VFS.
I see that the reason why Miss A called VFS in December was to update her bank details as 
the dealer had used old one it had held on file. I dont think that is grounds for upholding her 
complaint.
Putting things right
The investigator has suggested VFS pay Miss A 10% of her monthly payments from 
December to July to reflect her lack of enjoyment of the car. She has also suggested 
compensation of £150. VFS has accepted this and although I regard this as generous I have 
decided not to reduce the award. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Refund 10% of the monthly premiums from December  July due to loss of 
enjoyment
Pay Miss A £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman