DRN-3947937
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Northern Bank Limited wont refund a payment she didnt make.
What happened
Mrs F disputes making a card payment of £837.42 (sterling equivalent) to a ticket agency 
based abroad on 8 April 2022. 
Northern Bank said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payment was authorised using 
strong customer authentication and this here meant that the payment was completed using 
its ID app. The device associated with the app had been registered on 23 April 2021. Mrs F 
had confirmed that no one else had access to this phone and there was no explanation of 
how a third party could have made this payment. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the payment 
was made using Mrs Fs card details and was authenticated using the ID app. Mrs F had 
confirmed that she hadnt lost her card and that no one knew her log in details or had access 
to her phone. And she hadnt received any suspicious calls or texts around this time. No 
other attempt had been made to access the money in her account. And there was nothing to 
support a third party having been able to make this payment.
Mrs F didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she was very 
disappointed as she was an honest person, and it didnt seem that honesty counted for 
anything. Mrs F said she was 100 percent certain that she didnt make this payment. And 
that there must have been some blip in the banks system.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely 
based on the information available.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, with security details. And if a payment wasnt 
authorised Mrs F wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
Northern Bank has shown that this payment required Mrs Fs card details. And it was also 
authenticated using strong customer authentication. Here its provided an audit of the 
payment. It has highlighted the relevant part that shows that the ID app had been accessed 
to confirm the payment. So, Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated.
Ive also seen a log showing the device registered for the ID app on 23 April 2021. There is 
no record of any other being used. And the device registered was one that Mrs F has 
accepted shed used to make a genuine payment before and was familiar with. There is 
nothing to support that her details were compromised or someone else had access to her 
phone. And Mrs F is clear that she didnt allow this or respond to any suspicious texts or 
messages around that time. Although she took her phone back to a store to be examined 
she says she was told that nothing relevant to this dispute was discovered on it. I dont have 
anything to show that there was a systems error as Mrs F thinks might have otherwise 
happened either.
As Ive said I need to think about what is most likely. And I know Mrs F will be disappointed 
when I say that I dont think a third party being able to make this payment without her 
consent is the most likely explanation here.
So, I think it reasonable for Northern Bank to hold her responsible for this payment. Mrs F 
has referred to taking legal action and if she doesnt accept my decision she remains free to 
do so subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman