DRN-3938728
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) avoided 
their home insurance policy and refused to pay a claim.
What happened
Mr W took out a home insurance policy with Hiscox through a broker. Mrs W was later added 
to the policy. After they moved in, there was an escape of water at the property. So, Mr W 
and Mrs W contacted Hiscox to make a claim.
Hiscox said Mr W and Mrs W had answered the question about previous claims incorrectly. 
It said there had been a previous claim for an escape of water shortly before Mr W first took 
out the policy, which hadnt been declared. It considered this to be a careless/deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy and decline the 
claim.
When Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it 
was reasonable for Hiscox to expect Mr W to have been aware of the claim when he took 
out the policy. Hiscox had provided evidence to show it wouldnt have offered cover if it had 
known about the previous claim. So, he said there had been a qualifying misrepresentation 
and that it was reasonable for Hiscox to avoid the policy and not to deal with the claim.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Hiscox thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy because he said there hadnt been any claims made by him or anyone 
else living at the property in the last five years.
Ive looked at what happened when the policy was first taken out. The property had been let 
to tenants and cover was in place during the tenancy under a policy in Mrs Ws name only. 
In July 2021, shortly before they moved out of the property, the tenants told Mrs W there had 
been an escape of water. Mrs W contacted her broker on 20 July 2021 to start a claim. 
As Mr W and Mrs W were moving back into the property, Mr W was in the process of 
arranging a home insurance policy for the property. The Hiscox policy started on 27 July 
2021. He was sent a statement of facts by Hiscox that confirmed the information he had 
provided. This said:
If any of the information in the statement of fact is not true, complete and accurate, you 
must let us know before cover starts. You must also let us know if, after cover has started, 
any of the information is or is likely to become no longer true, complete and accurate. In 
each case, we will let you know whether it affects the terms of the cover.

If any of the information is not, or no longer remains, true, complete and accurate, and you 
do not tell us, it could affect the validity of the policy or our ability to pay a claim.
The document then said:
How many buildings or contents claims have you and any person living at the property, 
made within the last five years?
The answer was given as 0. I think Hiscox asked a clear question and also explained about 
the need to keep Hiscox up to date if circumstances changed, along with possible 
consequences of not doing so.
Im aware Mr W has said he wasnt aware of the claim when he took out the policy. Ive 
thought about this and I think its more likely than not that Mr W would have been made 
aware of a claim that his wife was dealing with at the property he and Mrs W were about to 
move into. So, I think Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
about claims made by him or others living at the property.
Hiscox has provided its underwriting criteria which shows that had it known about the escape 
of water claim, it wouldnt have offered cover. I considered the part on escapes of water and 
also whether there was any discretion Hiscox would show around this type of claim. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that Hiscox wouldnt have offered cover and that the misrepresentation 
was therefore a qualifying one.
Hiscox said Mr Ws representation was careless. Im satisfied that this was fair in the 
circumstances. So, Ive looked at the actions Hiscox can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
Where an insurer wouldnt have offered cover, CIDRA allows an insurer to avoid the policy 
from the point of misrepresentation. In this instance, the misrepresentation was when the 
policy was first taken out. So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable to avoid the policy from that 
date. This also meant Hiscox didnt need to deal with the new claim made by Mr W and Mrs 
W. Hiscox was also required to return the premiums, which it did.
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W have said they werent aware the policy would be avoided from 
inception. Ive seen a letter from Hiscox to Mr W that explained the policy would be avoided 
back to the inception date. Mr W and Mrs W also said that when they spoke to their broker 
several months after the policy had been taken out, they were told the policy was still live at 
that point. It was then avoided a short time after. Mr W and Mrs W have said this put them in 
a difficult position. Hiscox later explained to Mr W and Mrs W what had happened about 
cancelling the policy, which I think was sufficient in the circumstances. Im also aware that the escape of water claim made by Mr W and Mrs W was from a different source than the 
escape of water claim made while the tenants were at the property. However, this doesnt 
change my view about whether it was reasonable for Hiscox to avoid the policy for 
misrepresentation.
So, having thought about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for Hiscox to decide 
there had been a misrepresentation and for it to avoid the policy and not to settle the claim. 
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Hiscox to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman