DRN-2854264
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about a Virgin One Account mortgage they hold with                    
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). They say it was their understanding that the account 
was flexible, and that they could repay their borrowing at any time before the end of the 
term. However, RBS later reduced their lending facility, which meant they had to repay some 
of their borrowing before the end of the term.
Mr and Mrs G say the reductions in the facility and RBSs handling of the account resulted in 
them experiencing financial loss, stress, anxiety and panic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a Virgin One Account mortgage in 2001, which is owned and 
administered by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). I understand it was marketed as a 
flexible arrangement combining a mortgage and current account with an overdraft facility, 
allowing Mr and Mrs G to pay in and draw out as much as they wanted and at any time up to 
an agreed facility limit.
Mr and Mrs G initially borrowed £74,800 over a term of 20 years on a capital and interest 
repayment basis, which was secured on their property. The offer letter dated May 2001 
included a repayment plan document, which said the balance should reduce every month. It 
also showed what the decreasing balance should be at years one, five, ten and fifteen.
In September 2003, Mr and Mrs G borrowed an additional £215,000, to purchase another 
property. And in April 2007, Mr and Mrs G increased the facility to £290,000.
I understand that from around 2009 Mr and Mrs G started to fall behind the repayment plan, 
and from 2013, discussions about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and reducing their 
borrowing took place. And in August 2013, RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs G to let them know that 
their facility would be reducing by £1 and that it would reduce again in August 2014 to 
£266,470, in line with the repayment plan. 
Mr and Mrs G asked RBS to delay the reduction in the facility shortly before it was due to 
take place, but RBS declined their request. Mr and Mrs G say they were forced to borrow 
money from a family member to reduce their borrowing, which they say was very 
embarrassing for them.
Further, they say that as a direct result of the reduction in the facility, they were forced to 
open banking facilities elsewhere. They say this meant they could no longer benefit from 
their account, which resulted in a loss of off-set interest.
In September 2014, RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs G to confirm the facility had been reduced to 
£266,470 and would reduce again to £241,933 in September 2015. However, in          
October 2015, RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs G to explain that following a review of its process, it 
had decided that it would only reduce the facility if Mr and Mrs G wanted that to happen. And  
I understand Mr and Mrs G told RBS that they didnt agree to the facility to being reduced 
further.
Mr and Mrs G say that in 2016 they took out a loan with another lender to set up a business, 
but had the facility still been in place, they would have used that instead which would have 
been less expensive for them.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs G sold one of their properties and their facility was reduced to £118,755 
and I understand it has remained at this level since. Mr and Mrs G say they felt forced to sell 
their property in 2017 and the housing market was not favourable at that time. And as a 
result, they werent able to achieve the best possible price for the property.
Mr and Mrs G were also unhappy that the facility was reduced by the sales amount received, 
which they say left them unable to pay bills including Capital Gains Tax. I also understand 
that the funds were also initially rejected by RBS, which Mr and Mrs G say was very stressful 
for them.
In 2019 RBS completed a review of its repayment plan process. And after discussing          
Mr and Mrs Gs concerns with them, it issued its final response in December 2019. In 
summary, it said:
- It felt it had acted reasonably by reducing the facility and by providing a structured 
repayment plan to ensure the mortgage was fully repaid at the end of the term;
- It didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs decision to sell their property in 2017 and the losses 
they say they incurred were a direct result of the repayment plan process. Further, 
RBS had told Mr and Mrs G that the facility would be reduced by the sales price 
achieved before they sold the property;
- Mr and Mrs G didnt incur any costs from borrowing from a family member; 
- The terms of the account say that interest will be charged on the amount borrowed 
so it isnt responsible for the interest Mr and Mrs G incurred when they transferred 
funds and started using alternative banking facilities; and
- It awarded £200 for the distress and inconvenience that it said Mr and Mrs G may 
have experienced as a result of the repayment plan process. 
RBS issued a further response in March 2021. This explained that it had reviewed              
Mr and Mrs Gs case again and had awarded them an additional £350 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience they may have suffered.
Unhappy with RBSs responses, Mr and Mrs G referred their concerns to our service. Our 
investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
- She didnt think RBS had acted unreasonably by reducing the facility limit in 2014 
because Mr and Mrs G were behind the repayment plan and they were given a year 
to plan for the reduction. She was also satisfied that RBSs actions were intended to 
help Mr and Mrs G avoid having a large debt to repay at the end of the term;
- She didnt think the reduction in Mr and Mrs Gs facility in 2014 led to them having to 
sell their property in 2017. This was because there hadnt been any reductions in the 
facility since 2014;
- RBS had acted reasonably by recommending Mr and Mrs G find banking facilities 
elsewhere. She was satisfied RBS suggested this so that Mr and Mrs G could avoid 
experiencing banking difficulties, such as credits being swallowed up should the facility be reduced before they were able to reduce their borrowing; and
- She felt RBSs total award of £550 for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs G 
may have experienced as a result of RBSs repayment plan process was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did RBS act reasonably by reducing the facility?
Mr and Mrs G say that they understood their borrowing could be repaid at any time before 
the end of the term. Any by reducing their facility, RBS had breached the terms of the 
agreement. 
RBS say that Mr and Mrs G had agreed to repay the facility, reducing the balance 
outstanding gradually over time. And when it decided to reduce the facility in 2014, in line 
with the repayment guide, it did this to help Mr and Mrs G achieve this.
Ive carefully reviewed the mortgage offer document dated May 2001 and Ive noted that 
says:
You can withdraw funds up to your Facility and repay any borrowing at any time without 
notice.
However, along with the offer document, Mr and Mrs G were sent a document entitled 
Important Points about the Virgin One account  Please read carefully. And point 13 states:
 
We place great emphasis on agreeing a repayment plan with you and helping you with your 
financial planning. Your monthly statements will indicate whether you are ahead or behind 
your repayment plan and we will be happy to discuss this regularly with you.
Mr and Mrs G were also sent a repayment plan document, which said:
As you have decided to repay your One account borrowing each month over the next 20 
years your planned balance should reduce every month.
It also provided a monthly payment figure of £600.30 to repay the capital repayments and 
interest and it clearly set out what the reducing balance should be at years one, five, ten and 
fifteen.
Mr and Mrs G were also sent a terms and conditions document, and under the heading 
Repayment it said the following: 
You will from time-to-time agree with us and operate a repayment plan covering the 
Facility.
Whilst I accept some of the wording used in the offer document indicated the facility balance 
could be repaid at any time, I think point 13 of Important Points about the Virgin One 
account  Please read carefully document makes it clear that great emphasis was placed on 
the repayment plan. And the repayment plan document makes it clear that there was an expectation that the balance would reduce gradually over the term.
I understand that from around 2009, Mr and Mrs G started to fall behind the repayment plan. 
And in 2013, RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs G to ask them to reduce their borrowing in line with 
the repayment plan, and if that wasnt possible, to contact it to discuss this in more detail.
RBS says it didnt hear from Mr and Mrs G, so it wrote to them again. I understand that             
Mr and Mrs G contacted RBS in July 2013 and explained theyd fallen behind due to their 
business being impacted by the recession and by ill health. They also discussed the 
possibility of selling one of their properties, but RBS didnt feel the facility required after the 
release of this property would meet its affordability guidelines.
However, in August 2013, RBS did agree to a new repayment plan, which reduced the 
facility by just £1 and cleared Mr and Mrs Gs behind plan position. Ive reviewed the 
repayment plan document, and Ive noted that this explained that Mr and Mrs G had decided 
to repay their account gradually over the next ten years and two months and that the 
balance should decrease as they progressed towards their repayment date. It also indicated 
what the decreasing balance should be after years one, five and ten.
RBS also wrote to Mr and Mrs G confirming that their facility would be reducing again in 
August 2014 to £266,470, in line with the repayment plan. A reminder letter was also sent to 
Mr and Mrs G in June 2014.
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs G werent able to reduce their borrowing in line with the new 
repayment plan, and shortly before the reduction was due to take place, they asked RBS if 
this could be delayed.
I can see from RBSs contact notes that Mr G explained the following:
- Hed taken a year off work due to ill health, but he was looking for a new job with a 
pay rise;
- They wanted to sell one of their properties, but they needed more time to arrange 
this;
- Theyd spoken to a debt management organisation, who had recommended they 
enter into a repayment plan, but they wanted to put this off; and
- They made a proposal to make a monthly payment of £1,400.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and their proposal to make a 
monthly payment of £1,400, but Im mindful that this wouldnt have been sufficient to stop 
them falling further behind the repayment plan. And whilst Mr G had mentioned selling one 
of their properties, I understand they wanted to do some repair work on it first. So, it seems 
to me that they would have just continued to fall further behind the repayment plan and for 
an indefinite period of time.
I can, therefore, see why RBS didnt consider Mr and Mrs G had provided it with a credible 
plan. And it follows that I dont think it acted unreasonably, in the circumstances, by reducing 
the facility as it had planned. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G ended up borrowing money from a family member to reduce 
their borrowing, which they say was very embarrassing for them. Whilst I appreciate this may 
have been difficult for them, this was ultimately something they decided to do. Im also mindful that RBS had told Mr and Mrs G about their plan to reduce the facility a year before it 
took place and it sent them a reminder letter, so Im satisfied they were given adequate time 
to explore any other options that may have been available to them.
Mr and Mrs G were not able to continue to benefit from the account
Mr and Mrs G say that as a direct result of the reduction in the facility, they were forced to 
arrange alternative banking facilities and use an alternative current account. This meant they 
were not able to continue to benefit from using the account, which resulted in a loss of off-set 
interest.
RBS say that prior to the facility being reduced, they suggested Mr and Mrs G find 
alternative banking facilities. I understand this was to ensure their direct debits and standing 
orders were paid without charge and any credits received into the account were not 
swallowed up by any deficit in the account as a result of the planned reduction.
As Ive already explained, I dont think RBS acted unreasonably in the circumstances by 
reducing Mr and Mrs Gs facility. Mr and Mrs G were given adequate notice of the facility 
reduction, and had they been able to reduce their borrowing in line with this, then they would 
have been able to continue to benefit from using the account. As a result, I dont think RBS 
were responsible for Mr and Mrs G not being able to benefit from using the account in the 
way they wanted.
Mr and Mrs G took out a loan with another lender in 2016
Mr and Mrs G say that in 2016 they took out a loan with another lender to set up a business. 
But had the facility still been in place, they would have used that instead- which would have 
been less expensive for them.
RBS says that Mr and Mrs G didnt apply for further lending with it at that time. And Ive not 
been provided with any evidence to show an application was made to RBS at that time. I 
therefore dont think that RBS are responsible for Mr and Mrs Gs decision to take out a loan 
with another lender.
The sale of the property in 2017
Mr and Mrs G say that RBSs actions and handling of the account resulted in them feeling 
forced to sell their property  which they did in 2017. Further, they felt the housing market 
wasnt favourable at the time, due to excessive new build discounted schemes locally. They 
say this resulted in them not achieving the best possible price for their property and also 
resulted in a loss of rental income after the property had been sold. 
Ive noted that in September 2014, RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs G to confirm the facility had 
been reduced to £266,470 and that they intended to reduce it again to £241,933 in 
September 2015.
However, in October 2015, RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs G to explain that following a review of 
its process, it hadnt reduced the facility as planned and had decided that it would only 
reduce the facility if Mr and Mrs G wanted that to happen. 
In October 2015, Mr and Mrs G returned a form to RSBC confirming that they didnt agree to 
the facility being reduced. And under the heading My plan to repay the balance at the end of 
the term is: they wrote that they were planning to sell their smaller property and then sell their second property and downsize a year or two after that.
Following this, no further reductions took place. Ive also reviewed the statement that was 
sent to Mr and Mrs G in December 2016, and whilst this explains that Mr and Mrs G were 
behind the repayment plan by £56,684, there was no mention of the possibility of the facility 
being reduced again.
I also understand that Mr G was made redundant at around this time.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments about them feeling forced to sell their 
property in 2017. Whilst its clear from the form they returned to RBS that they planned to 
sell both of their properties by the end of the term, there was no specific timeframe given. 
This doesnt indicate they felt any urgency or pressure to sell either of their properties. 
Im also mindful that the sale of the property took place around three years after                 
Mr and Mrs Gs facility was last reduced and around two years after RBS had told them they 
didnt intend to reduce their facility further.
Whilst I accept Mr and Mrs G may have been more conscious about being behind their 
repayment plan than they would have been had RBS not taken the action it did in 2013 and 
2014, I havent seen any evidence that would indicate any further reductions in the facility 
were likely to take place.
It follows that Im not satisfied that RBSs actions and handling of the account were the direct 
or sole reason for Mr and Ms G selling their property in 2017. Rather, I think this was 
something they chose to do at that time, perhaps due to their financial circumstances. But 
not as a direct result of RBSs actions.
In any event, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think RBSs decision to reduce 
the facility in 2014 was unreasonable in the circumstances.   
It therefore follows that I dont think RBS is responsible for any loss in sales price achieved 
due to the timing of the sale or any rental income Mr and Mrs G say they missed out on.
The facility was reduced by the sales price of the property
Mr and Mrs G are also unhappy that the facility was reduced by sales price they received for 
their property. This resulted in them being slightly ahead of the repayment plan, but left them 
unable to pay bills including Capital Gains Tax.
RBS says Mr and Mrs G were told that the facility would be reduced by the sales amount 
received before the sale of the property took place and Mr and Mrs G agreed to this.
I havent seen any evidence to show that this was agreed beforehand. However, given the 
property sold was one of the two properties that the lending was secured on, I dont think 
RBS has acted unreasonably by the reducing the facility by sales price achieved. 
The proceeds of the sale were refused on the day the property was sold
Mr and Mrs G say that on the day they sold their property, RBS refused the funds from their 
solicitor.
RBS has accepted that there was a delay in it accepting the funds. However, it says the 
money was credited on the same day and this didnt impact the completion of the sale.I can appreciate this was stressful time for Mr and Mrs G. However, the delay doesnt appear 
to have impacted the sale of the property. Further, I havent seen any evidence to show that     
Mr and Mrs G incurred any financial loss as a result of the delay.
Distress caused by the repayment plan process
Mr and Mrs G say that they found the letters RBS sent to them about being behind on their 
repayment plan and the facility being reduced, threatening. I understand this resulted in 
them experiencing stress, anxiety and panic.
RBS has awarded a total of £550 for the distress and inconvenience it says Mr and Mrs G 
may have experienced as a result of its handling of the repayment plan process. I appreciate 
that this was a difficult and stressful time for Mr and Mrs G. And after taking everything into 
account, I think the award RBS has already made is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman