DRN-3931900
The complaint
Miss R complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Moneys (Virgin) decision to 
decline an application for a credit card
What happened
Miss R made an online application with Virgin for a credit card in June 2022. Miss R says 
that she decided to apply for the card because shed been alerted by a third-party business 
specialising in credit file information, that shed been 100% preapproved for the card, with an 
0% interest for 6-12 months. Miss R said she intended to use the card to save money when 
making purchases needed for a new home.
Virgin declined Miss Rs application as they said it didnt meet their internal lending criteria. 
Miss R raised a complaint with Virgin as she was unhappy with their decision to decline her 
application, especially as shed been pre-approved, and now applying on this proviso had 
negatively impacted her credit file.
Virgin responded to Miss Rs complaint saying that they look at every application carefully 
and consider the details supplied by the customer, alongside information held with credit 
reference and fraud prevention agencies. They then use this, combined with their own 
internal lending criteria, to decide whether to approve the lending application.  
Virgin also explained to Miss R that pre-checkers will run a 'soft search on the details 
provided, but that it wont guarantee that the application will be accepted until a hard search 
is completed. They apologised for any inconvenience caused because of the declined 
application. They reassured Miss R that her credit file would only show that an application 
had been made and wouldnt show if the application was accepted or declined.
Unhappy with Virgins response to her complaint Miss R contacted our service as she says 
she felt embarrassed, deflated, and let down. One of our investigators considered Miss Rs 
complaint and they didnt find that Virgin had acted unfairly in processing Miss Rs credit 
card application. They explained that the third-party eligibility checker is not a guarantee of 
acceptance and that the agreement to lend is accepted only after an application has been 
made and underwritten. And that an application for a credit card will leave a marker on the 
applicants credit file, even if not successful and can only ask a business to remove a record 
that was recorded incorrectly.
Miss R rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. She said the 
information on her eligibility was misleading, and she only proceeded with the application as 
she was led to believe this would be 100% guaranteed for approval. So, the case has been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Third party information
Ive looked at the evidence Miss R has provided which shows the information she was given 
about her eligibility. I can see why Miss R felt encouraged to apply for the card as the third-
party website says, Virgin Money 28-month Balance Transfer Card, 100% likely to be 
approved. But it didnt say guaranteed to be approved.
I appreciate that Miss R says that this is false advertising, but theyre only giving an 
indication of her eligibility based on the information they know. And from looking at the third-
partys information about Miss R, they say her credit score needs work, which is an 
indication that Miss Rs credit score needed work to improve her lending eligibility. So, Im 
not persuaded that Miss R was told that it was certain she was preapproved for the Virgin 
credit card. In any event, I cant hold Virgin responsible for any information provided by a 
third party.
Virgin online credit card application
When Miss R went online to apply for the Virgin credit card, she completed a pre-checker 
through Virgins website and was pre-approved for the credit card. Virgin have explained that 
the pre-checker ran a 'soft search on the details entered by Miss R and didnt do a search 
on the information held on her credit file. And until a hard search had been completed, Miss 
R hadnt been fully approved for the card. After completing the full application for the credit 
card which included a hard search, Miss Rs application was declined. Virgin said that   
Miss R failed to meet their required internal credit scoring.
Its not for this service to tell a business to offer lending to a customer or to tell them how 
they should process credit card applications  we arent the regulator. Our role is to look at 
whether they followed their own policies and procedures, or if they did something wrong 
which resulted in Miss Rs application being declined when it shouldnt have been. 
Virgin have given me evidence that shows Miss Rs application was declined due to their 
internal scoring criteria. This is made up of the details Miss R input when applying for the 
card online, in addition to the information held with credit reference and fraud prevention 
agencies to decide whether the card was right for Miss R. So, I dont find that Virgin did 
anything wrong here.
Credit file information
I understand that Miss R is concerned about any potential negative impact the declined 
credit card application has had on her credit file. I accept the declined application would 
appear as a footprint on Miss Rs credit file  lenders are obliged to report such information 
and Miss R agreed to a search being undertaken when she submitted her application. But I 
dont consider such a marker or enquiry made on a customer's credit record in connection 
with an application to be detrimental in the same way as it would if payments had been 
missed, or arrears accrued on an account. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Virgin processed Miss Rs application fairly and reasonably, and 
that they carried out the appropriate checks when reaching their decision not to give Miss R 
the card. And they explained to Miss R the reason why the application was declined.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint about Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman