DRN-3401516
The complaint
Mr A complains National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly recorded non-payment markers and 
defaults for two accounts he held, which he wants removed. He wants compensation for the 
effect their actions had on him.
What happened
Mr A held several accounts with NatWest, including a current account with an overdraft and 
a personal loan. In July 2020 NatWest closed his accounts and called in his overdraft. Mr A 
had previously benefitted from a three-month payment holiday for his personal loan, which 
completed in June 2020.
Mr A made a payment towards his loan account in July 2020, but his August payment 
bounced back. NatWest passed the debt to a third party and defaults were recorded against 
the loan account and the current account.
Mr A complained to NatWest on two occasions. Firstly, because he found it difficult to get 
hold of them on the phone numbers provided on the notice to close letter he received. He 
said this prevented him from setting up new direct debits to make repayments. And secondly 
because he felt NatWest shouldnt have recorded negative credit information about him. 
NatWest offered Mr A £50 for the inconvenience he experienced trying to ring them, which 
came off the outstanding balance he owed. They then offered him another £50 because they 
had intended the first £50 to be paid directly to him. They said that they had acted fairly 
when recording credit information about his accounts.
Our investigator concluded that NatWest didnt need to pay Mr A any further compensation. 
In brief they said:
NatWest closed Mr As accounts in line with the accounts terms and conditions. Prior 
to the loan account closing he had benefitted from a three-month payment holiday 
and no non-payment markers had been recorded for that period.
After the August loan payment which had bounced back, Mr A hadnt appeared to 
make further payments towards either the loan or overdraft debt, so it was fair for the 
default markers to remain.
The compensation Mr A received was enough to make up for not being able to speak 
to someone at NatWest on the phone numbers on their notice to close letter.
Mr A asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest could terminate their relationship with Mr A even though he held credit facilities with 
them. They had closed both his loan and current accounts in a way which was equivalent to 
them being closed immediately. And on reviewing the circumstances which informed their 
decision, I find they closed both accounts in line with their terms and conditions. They could 
also close Mr As accounts without needing to tell him why.
The result of closing both accounts was that Mr As overdraft debt was called in, and he still 
needed to pay off his loan according to the original repayment terms.
Mr A agreed a three-month repayment holiday with NatWest for his loan in April 2020. I cant 
see any negative non-payment markers were recorded by NatWest during the holiday 
window, and I find the holiday was an appropriate measure of help. NatWest acted with 
appropriate forbearance and consideration of Mr As circumstances.
Mr A says he tried to speak to NatWest multiple times on receiving notice that his accounts 
were to close. NatWest havent found there were specific issues with their phone lines at 
those times to explain the difficulty Mr A had. But, even so, I find the two £50 payments - one 
of which reduced his outstanding balance - were enough to make up for the inconvenience 
and annoyance Mr A may have been caused. I am not awarding anything more, as I find this 
represented reasonable compensation and I havent seen evidence to warrant a larger 
award.
Its not evident Mr A made sufficient payments towards his debts for some time after July 
2020, which included the three-month arrears he accrued during his payment holiday. So, I 
am persuaded the default markers accurately reflect Mr As failure to meet his obligations to 
repay what he owed over a reasonable period of time. Those obligations did not disappear 
because he may have had trouble speaking to NatWest on the phone, or because his debt 
was given to a third party, or because he referred his complaint to our service. So, I am not 
going to direct NatWest to remove the credit information they recorded.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 Liam King
Ombudsman