DRN-3346119
The complaint
Miss H complains because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a cancellation claim 
under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to UKI include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss H held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by UKI.
Miss H was due to travel abroad in March 2020 but, unfortunately, the trip was cancelled due
to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Miss H was due to travel with her father, who
had booked and paid for Miss Hs flight so they could be seated together.
Miss Hs father made a claim under his own travel insurance policy and was reimbursed for
his flight only. So, Miss H made a claim under her policy with UKI for the non-refundable cost
of her flight.
UKI said Miss Hs claim wasnt covered under her policy because she had no financial loss,
as her flight was paid for by her father and the cost was therefore recoverable from
elsewhere. Unhappy, Miss H complained to UKI before bringing the matter to the attention of
our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for UKI to accept Miss Hs claim. UKI didnt agree
with our investigators opinion, so Miss Hs complaint was referred to me. I made my 
provisional decision about Miss Hs complaint in February 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my decision about Miss Hs complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Miss Hs policy provides cancellation cover if the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against all but essential travel in certain
circumstances, as happened here.
The terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy, at page 38 under the heading Cancelling a trip
before it starts, say UKI will pay:
 up to £5,000 for each insured person for costs that you have paid or legally have
to pay if you have to cancel your trip .
Page 48 of the policy, under the heading Specific exclusions applying to Section 6 Travel,
says the following are not covered:
1. Recoverable expenses
x Any expenses that you can recover from elsewhere 
Our investigator said Miss Hs flight was a gift from her father. But Im satisfied based on the
evidence Ive seen that the flight wasnt a gift.
Miss H repeatedly told both UKI (on 19 June 2020 and 22 June 2020) and this service that,
although she hadnt paid her father for her flight before their intended departure date, she did
intend to pay him this money. Miss H has also told both UKI and this service that she still
intends to reimburse her father for the money he paid for her flight.
Miss H told us she didnt pay her father for the flight at the time as she had already paid for
other things in connection with the planned trip, such as a restaurant booking and foreign
currency  and she and her father intended to reconcile the money each of them had spent
after the trip. Ive attached evidence of the restaurant booking and foreign currency purchase
for UKI to see.
I think Miss Hs testimony that she intends to pay for her own flight has been consistent and
is both plausible and persuasive, and Im satisfied that Miss H has provided evidence in
support of what she has told us.
Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for UKI to treat Miss
Hs flight cost as being money she paid or legally had to pay under the cancellation section
of her policy.
Im also satisfied that Miss Hs flight costs arent recoverable from elsewhere. The airline
isnt responsible for providing a refund in these circumstances and Miss H has said her
father tried to make a claim to recover the money from his credit card provider. Miss H has
also provided evidence, which has already been provided to UKI, that Miss Hs fathers
insurer paid a claim for the cost of his flight only. If Miss H intended to pay for her own flight
(which Im satisfied she did), then I wouldnt necessarily expect Miss Hs fathers insurer to
have covered the cost of Miss Hs flight  as the financial loss was Miss Hs, and not her
fathers.
UKI has said that Miss H, and not her father, is its customer. But Im satisfied that Miss H
has a financial loss under her own insurance policy because she owes money to her father
for her flight. If UKI thinks that Miss Hs fathers insurer should instead have paid a claim for
Miss Hs flight, then the terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy entitle UKI to pursue the
other insurer for that money in Miss Hs name.
Miss H has also complained about UKIs delays dealing with this matter. UKI told Miss H her
claim wasnt covered one month after receiving her claim, which I dont think is an
unreasonable or excessive length of time. UKI provided a response to Miss Hs complaint
within eight weeks of receiving the complaint, as required by the regulator. So, I dont think it
would be fair or reasonable to also require UKI to pay compensation to Miss H.
UKI responded to my provisional decision and maintained its position that it didnt think Miss 
H had suffered a financial loss. UKI said Miss H had evidenced no such loss and that Miss H 
would be put in a position of betterment if her claim was paid. Furthermore, UKI said Miss H 
hadnt yet paid her father back for her flight, which would suggest that the cost of her flight 
was a gift. 
Miss H responded to my provisional decision and reiterated that it was always her intention 
to reimburse her father for the cost of her flight. Miss H provided evidence that she has now 
done this of her own volition, a copy of which Ive attached to this final decision for UKI to 
see. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has now provided evidence that she has reimbursed her father for the cost of her 
flight. But, even if she hadnt done so, Id still be upholding her complaint for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision. Miss H told both UKI and this service that she was waiting to 
receive the claim payment before repaying her father and I dont think this is unreasonable. 
Overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to now pay Miss Hs claim. 
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited should put things right by paying Miss Hs cancellation claim, subject 
to any applicable policy excesses and/or policy limits.
U K Insurance Limited should add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per year from 
the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid1. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and I direct U K Insurance Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Miss H how much it has taken off. It should also give Miss H a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 