DRN-1492109
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the lack of information The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has 
been able to provide in respect of a standing order.
Background
Mrs T contacted RBS to find out why she was paying it £50 a month by standing order. She 
says it wasnt able to give her any reason for the payments. It just said that she should know 
why because she set it up in 2002 and amended it in 2015. It said it would write off the 
remaining amount owed of £91.21. But Mrs T is unhappy with the lack of information 
provided. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said standing orders can only be set up 
and controlled by the account holder. So if Mrs T had been paying RBS £50 a month by 
standing order, this was because of her instructions to her bank. She was satisfied Mrs T 
had a loan with RBS which the standing order had been paying. So she didnt think RBS 
needed to do anything more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the amount of time thats passed since the loan was taken out in 2002, RBS says 
there is limited information it can provide. But its shown us a statement for the last three 
months of the loan before it was paid off. From this, I can see that a payment of £50 was 
made each month. I can also see that following contact from Mrs T in October 2019, RBS 
decided to waive the remaining balance of £91.21. And the loan is now closed. 
I know that Mrs T isnt happy that RBS cant provide her with further details of the loan but 
given it appears to have been taken out 18 years ago, I wouldnt expect it to have retained 
this information- and its not required to do so.
And I whilst I appreciate that Mrs T doesnt recall taking out the loan, standing orders can 
only be set up by account holders. Unlike direct debits, account holders have sole control of 
standing orders so they can amend any amounts being paid or cancelled it at any time. 
As Mrs T has set up a standing order to pay RBS each month, and she isnt disputing there 
was a debt to pay, I cant say RBS has done anything wrong here. I understand its 
frustrating for Mrs T that RBS cant give her more information about the loan. I can see why 
shed feel it was being unhelpful. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think its 
unreasonable that this information isnt available.  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint against The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman