DRN-3169116
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, continued to apply 
interest to his credit account during a payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr S contacted Barclays and explained that he was having trouble meeting the payment 
commitments on his credit account because of difficulties brought about by the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr S asked if Barclays could help him by reducing his payments or reducing the 
interest that would accrue on his account but mentioned that he wanted to avoid any option 
that might affect his credit file.
In response, Barclays advised Mr S that he could apply for a three-month payment holiday 
during which time he wouldnt have to make any payment towards the account, but that 
interest would continue to accrue on the account during that period. Barclays also confirmed 
that Mr Ss credit file wouldnt be affected by accepting such a payment holiday.
Mr S did subsequently apply for and receive a three-month payment holiday on the terms 
that Barclays had advised. However, Mr S was upset that interest had continued to accrue 
on his account during the payment holiday period and so he raised a complaint with Barclays 
about this.
Barclays looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they felt that the offer of the payment holiday had 
been in line with Mr Ss stated needs at that time, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by offering the payment holiday to Mr S that they did, and so they 
also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance designed 
to support credit account holders who might be affected by the developing Covid-19 
pandemic and who might be experiencing difficulties meeting the repayments due on their 
credit account as a result.
This temporary guidance included that credit providers should offer eligible customers a 
three-month payment holiday, during which time the customer wouldnt need to make any 
payments towards their account. This temporary guidance also confirmed that a customers 
credit file shouldnt be affected by their taking such a payment holiday, and that interest 
should continue to accrue on the customers account during the payment holiday period.
When Mr S contacted Barclays and requested assistance, he was eligible to benefit from the 
FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday. Its also notable that Mr Ss request to 
Barclays at that time was as follows:
I am writing to request help with my credit card repayments, as I am having difficulty 
due to Coronavirus Please advise if there is anything you could do to help me over 
the next few months. Can you stop interest or reduce my payments? I am very 
worried that any help would affect my credit score so please can you help in a way 
that does not affect this?
Considering the above, Im satisfied that the three-month holiday that Barclays offered to   
Mr S did meet his requirements at that time. Mr S had asked for an option that stopped 
interest or reduced his payments over the next few months, and which wouldnt affect his 
credit file. And the three-month payment holiday achieved this, reducing the payments that 
Mr S had to make against the account over the next three months to zero, whilst not 
impacting his credit file in any way.
Following being offered the three-month payment holiday by Barclays, Mr S responded and 
asked for an option where his payments would be reduced and where interest would not 
accrue, but where his credit file would also still not be affected. 
I can appreciate why Mr S would have wanted such an option, but its important to note that 
it would generally be expected by this service that any payment holiday offered to a 
customer under normal (non Covid-19) circumstances, would be reported by the credit 
provider to the credit reference agencies and so would have an impact on that customers 
credit file. And this is because credit providers have an obligation to make accurate reports 
to the credit reference agencies so that a true picture of a customers credit history is 
recorded.
One of the stated aims of the FCA, when issuing the temporary guidance on three-month 
payment holidays, was to protect credit account holders from the possibility of incurring 
adverse credit-reporting because of Covid-19 related payment difficulties. And it was for this 
reason that the temporary guidance included that, for the FCA prescribed three-month 
payment holidays only  which included the condition that interest would continue to accrue 
on a credit account during the payment holiday period  the requirement for credit providers 
to report the payment holiday to the credit reference agencies would be suspended.
This means that Barclays were only obliged to offer Mr S a payment holiday that wouldnt 
impact his credit file under the terms of the temporary guidance prescribed by the FCA, 
which included that interest would continue to accrue on the account during payment holiday 
period.
If Mr S didnt want to accept the terms of the FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday, 
it would be expected that Barclays would have offered to discuss other possible financial 
assistance options with Mr S, albeit under the caveat that that any agreement reached, 
which potentially could have included that interest wouldnt accrue on the account during any 
agreed assistance period, would in all likelihood be reported to the credit reference agencies 
and so would have an impact on Mr Ss credit file.
Barclays appear to have done that here, and I note in their correspondence with Mr S they 
outlined the terms of the FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday but also gave Mr S the option to call them if he still required further assistance in regard to being financially 
impacted by Covid-19.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how they responded to Mr Ss request for financial assistance here. And I 
say this because they offered Mr S a payment holiday that met his initial stated requirements 
and because Barclays werent expected or obliged to have offered Mr S a payment holiday 
that met his later requirements, which included that interest not accrue on the account but 
that his credit file not be affected.  
It follows then that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I realise that Mr S may be 
disappointed by this outcome, but I trust that hell understand, given everything that Ive 
explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman