DRN-4395160
The complaint
Miss T complains that Zopa Bank Limited was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss T was provided with a £4,000 loan in November 2018. The loan was repayable over 36 
months with monthly repayments of around £129. Miss T says that adequate checks werent 
carried out before the loan was provided and that the loan added to her financial problems. 
She says she used the loan to repay other debt and she was living on credit at the time as 
well as borrowing from family and friends.
Zopa issued a final response letter in October 2022. It said that when assessing a loan 
application its underwriting team considers several factors including credit profile, credit 
history and affordability. It said it used information gathered through the application and 
credit reference agencies. It didnt accept that it had lent irresponsibly to Miss T.
Miss T wasnt satisfied with Zopas response and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted that at the time of the loan application 
Miss T had outstanding balances totalling £10,696 which was just under 58% of her net 
annual income. This figure increased to around 79% of her net annual income when the 
Zopa loan was included. He said that Miss T had access to over £30,000 worth of credit and 
thought that Zopa should have contacted Miss T at the time to understand whether the 
additional credit was needed.
Our investigator noted the affordability assessment carried out by Zopa but thought it should 
have taken into account the cost to Miss T had she made use of all the credit available to 
her. He said had this been included in the assessment Miss T wouldnt have been able to 
afford to make her mortgage repayments or pay for other expenses. He said that further 
checks should have taken place but said that based on the information Zopa had at the time 
it should have realised the lending was irresponsible.
Zopa didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that its checks showed Miss T had 
other credit at the time of application, but these accounts werent near or at their limits at the 
time and didnt raise concerns. It said the loan had an APR of 6.95% which was likely to be a 
more favourable rate than the other lines of credit available to Miss T and so this may be 
why she chose to apply for the loan rather than use her existing credit cards. It said Miss Ts 
total debt was within its risk policy.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the details of which are set out below.
The relevant rules state that a firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of 
creditworthiness and affordability. Affordability checks should be proportionate and what is 
proportionate depends on things like  but not limited to  the size of the loan, the 
repayments, what the lender knew about the consumer, and the things the consumer told it 
about their circumstances.
In this case Miss T applied for a £4,000 loan repayable over 36 months with monthly 
repayments of around £129. Before providing the loan, Zopa carried out a credit check. I 
have looked at the results of this and these didnt raise any concerns about how Miss T was 
managing her existing credit commitments. The credit report showed that Miss T had an 
outstanding mortgage (which was also noted in her loan application) four credit card 
accounts and two mail order accounts. These accounts were opened over several years and 
while Miss T had a large outstanding balance on one of her mail order accounts her credit 
card balances werent near their limits and two accounts had zero balances. Considering this 
information, I do not find that it suggests Miss T was struggling to manage her credit 
accounts at the time of her loan application.
That said, Miss T did have access to a large amount of credit with credit limits totalling 
£26,550 on her credit cards (and £14,400 on her mail order accounts). She noted the new 
loan was for home improvements. Miss T had unused credit lines of more than the amount 
of the loan and so it could have been reasonable for Zopa to have asked why she needed to 
take on further credit at that point. However, noting the interest rate on the loan, I accept this 
was likely to have been a lower cost than using other credit lines. So, while I think it would 
have been reasonable to ask about this, I do not find that Miss T was necessarily 
disadvantaged by taking on the new lending.
Zopa has said that Miss Ts debt to income and disposable income were within acceptable 
limits. Miss Ts application recorded her as being employed full time with a monthly net 
income of around £1,585. Given Miss Ts existing credit commitments at the time of the loan 
application I think it was reasonable that her income be verified, and I can see this happened 
through a credit reference agency. Miss T was making repayments for her mortgage of £348 
and Zopa included an amount of around £577 to reflect the repayments towards her existing 
balances on her credit card and mail order accounts. A further amount of £28 was included 
for another credit commitment with another retailer. This left Miss T with a disposable 
income after the loan repayments of around £500.
I agree with our investigator that had Miss T been using all of the credit available to her at 
the time of the loan application the loan wouldnt have been affordable. But, in this case I 
think it is reasonable to make the assessment on Miss Ts outstanding balances and 
commitments at the time. I say this because Miss Ts credit report didnt raise concerns 
about how she was managing her other credit commitments and it appears that she was 
choosing which credit lines to use (she wasnt using two of her credit cards). Having looked 
at Miss Ts commitments at the time and allowing for her living expenses, I do not find I can 
say this loan should have been considered unaffordable.
I also note that Miss T was able to maintain her repayments on the loan and didnt raise any 
concerns about financial difficulty during the loan term.
Miss T didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said that she didnt fall into financial 
difficulty repaying the loan as she set the payment to be taken as soon as she was paid but 
she often didnt then have enough money to last until her next payday. She said she wasnt 
able to clear her other debts with the loan and so it wasnt a cheaper option. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I note the comments Miss T has made in response to my provisional decision, but I do not 
find that these change my conclusions. As I set out in my provisional decision, a credit check 
was carried out before the loan was provided and this didnt raise concerns that Miss T might 
be struggling financially. Miss Ts income was verified and based on the amount she was 
paying for her other credit commitments, including her mortgage, I do not find that the loan 
appeared unaffordable.
I understand the point Miss T has made about how she was able to make the loan 
repayments and that she wasnt able to clear her other debts. But I have to consider the 
information that was available to Zopa at the time the loan was provided and what it would 
have identified had it asked further questions about the reason for the loan. Based on this I 
do not find that I have enough to say that Zopa should have considered that the loan was 
unaffordable for Miss T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman