DRN-4306570
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the amount Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) paid to fix a leak under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S own a property which they rent out and is insured by LV. The water supplier 
visited the property and informed the tenant there was a leak. Mr and Mrs Ss tenant then 
informed them of this. Mr and Mrs S spoke with their letting agent who advised the water 
company would be expensive to appoint to fix the leak and recommended someone else to 
repair it. 
An independent contractor visited Mr and Mrs Ss property and identified an underground 
leak. The independent contractor therefore replaced a section of the underground pipe to fix 
the leak. Upon testing another leak was discovered so the contractor replaced the entire 
pipe as it said it was more cost effective. Mr and Mrs S then claimed on their policy with LV 
for the repair cost for the leaks. 
LV reviewed the claim and accepted it. It said it would only pay what it would have cost LV to 
repair the leak  not the cost of replacing the whole pipe - and offered this amount to Mr and 
Mrs S. There was some confusion over whether the £100 excess had been deducted twice, 
but eventually LV paid £1,043.10, minus the policy excess. Mr and Mrs S werent happy with 
the amount LV offered to pay and complained. 
LV reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the policy covered accidental damage 
but didnt cover wear and tear and so didnt think it had done anything wrong by paying what 
it had. Unhappy with LVs response, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
LV had offered what it would have cost it to repair the leak. While Mr and Mrs Ss contractor 
had said it was cheaper to replace the whole pipe, he wasnt persuaded LV wouldnt have 
been able to repair it for the amount it had offered. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, they said the 
contractor had repaired the leak and, as there was a second leak, it was cheaper to replace 
the whole pipe. Because of this they thought LV should pay what it had cost them to replace 
the pipe. 
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. I asked our 
investigator to let LV know that the invoice suggested there was more than one leak, and 
whether this changed its position on the amount it paid. 
LV responded and said Mr and Mrs S had the leak assessed and repaired without notifying 
LV. Due to this, LV said it had been prejudiced in assessing the claim as it could have either 
inspected it or asked for photos and videos to show there were multiple leaks. 
I asked out investigator to let Mr and Mrs S know LVs position in regard to reporting the 
claim late. Mr and Mrs S didnt dispute that the work was completed before telling LV about 
the claim, but said it was because they thought LV would need a quote for the work. Mr and 
Mrs S said theyd only become aware LV could repair the leak after it had been repaired and 
said that their contractor had identified more than one leak and, when LV had spoken with 
the contractor, it appeared to accept this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs policy say:
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and 
you choose not to have the item repaired or replaced or you wish to use 
you own supplier, we will not pay more than the amount we would have 
paid our supplier.
LV has provided a quote which shows it would cost LV £1,043.10 to complete the repair for 
the initial leak. I understand there is a dispute about this amount as Mr and Mrs Ss 
contractor said there was more than one leak and so replaced the pipe, which it said was 
cheaper. 
I can also see the terms and conditions of the policy say Mr and Mrs S must notify LV of an 
incident as soon as possible. They go onto say:
You or any other person must not, without our permission: 
make your own arrangements for repair or replacement.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ss reasons for not reporting the claim until after the repair had 
been completed. However, Im not persuaded that means LV needs to pay more than it has. I 
say this as Im satisfied LV has shown if it had known of the claim before the repair was 
completed, it could either have assessed it or asked for photos or videos to support the 
contractors report. And, as this wasnt done, Im satisfied LV has been prejudiced by the 
claim not being reported as soon as possible. Im therefore not going to tell it to pay any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited need to pay Mr and Mrs S £1,043.10, minus 
the policy excess, if not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman