DRN-4337965
The complaint
Mr D complains that Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. 
(trading as Telefonica Insurance UK Branch) unfairly declined a claim he made under his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
Mr Ds mother, Ms S is representing him in this complaint. For ease, Ill refer to anything said 
by Ms S as being said by Mr D.
Telefonica is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Telefonica has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Telefonica includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In May 2023, Mr D made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy with Telefonica. 
He said his iPhone 14 had been stolen while he was on holiday abroad.
Telefonica declined Mr Ds claim, referring to a condition in the policy relating to fraudulent 
claims. Mr D raised a complaint, but Telefonica maintained its position. So, Mr D asked our 
service to consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She thought it was fair for 
Telefonica to decline the claim and it had done so in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators outcome. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
In declining Mr Ds claim, Telefonica has referred to the following policy condition:
If You make a fraudulent Claim or we reasonably suspect fraud, We will not be liable to pay 
the Claim, We will be entitled to recover any sums paid to You in respect of the Claim and 
We may by giving You notice treat this policy as having been terminated with effect from the 
time of the fraudulent act.
Its important to explain that it isnt for me to decide whether Mr D acted fraudulently. 
Instead, Ive needed to consider if Telefonicas decision to invoke the fraud condition in this 
case was reasonable.
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. 
Telefonicas records show that Mr Ds cover was for an iPhone 14, with a start date of 9 
February 2023. Mr D claimed for the loss of the iPhone 14 on 4 May 2023. He said it had 
been stolen the previous day, along with his bag. 
Telefonica says it declined Mr Ds claim because it was unable to verify that the iPhone 14 
covered by the policy was in Mr Ds possession at the time of loss. It says the evidence 
suggests that another phone owned by Mr D (an iPhone 11) was lost. 
Telefonica has provided a screenshot showing Mr Ds device and SIM card usage. 
According to this, Mr D was using an iPhone 11 (with the IMEI ending in 77) and a SIM serial 
number ending 04 from April 2021 to February 2023. In February 2023, he started using the 
iPhone 14 which is covered by the policy. On the same date he started using a new SIM 
(ending 27). This SIM is showing as being used in both the iPhone 14 and the iPhone 11 
from 9 February 2023. The last used date is showing as 28 April 2023 for the iPhone 14 
and 3 May 2023 for the iPhone 11.
Ive listened to a call where Telefonica questioned Mr D about his claim. Mr D said that his 
SIM hadnt been in any devices other than the iPhone 14 which was stolen. He confirmed 
hed previously had an iPhone 11, but he said hed sold it. 
Mr D has told us he arrived at his holiday destination on 28 April, which is the same date 
Telefonicas records show his iPhone 14 was last used. The iPhone 11 was last used on 3 
May, which is the date Mr D says his phone was stolen. 
Mr D has provided screenshots of messages and emails from around the time he says his 
phone was stolen. These appear to support him having had a phone and other items stolen 
on 3 May 2023, but theres nothing to show which phone was stolen from him.
Mr Ds representative says shes tried to locate evidence to show that Mr D sold his iPhone 
11 via social media. She told us she couldnt provide this because the information doesnt go 
back as far as February last year. However, the information Ive seen suggests Mr D 
purchased the iPhone 14 in February this year, and Mr D was using the iPhone 11 with a 
different SIM up to that date. In any event, I havent seen evidence to show that Mr D was no 
longer in possession of his iPhone 11 in early May 2023.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely that a phone was stolen from Mr D when he was 
on holiday. However, all of the evidence points to it being the iPhone 11 that was stolen 
rather than the iPhone 14. So, it looks like Mr D tried to claim for a more expensive phone 
than was actually stolen from him. As, Mr D appears to have claimed for something more 
than hes entitled to, I dont think it was unreasonable for Telefonica to have applied the 
fraud condition and declined Mr Ds claim. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr D. But, having reviewed the information 
provided in this case, Im satisfied Telefonica conducted a fair and reasonable review of the 
claim and didnt act unreasonably in saying the fraud condition was breached  in light of the 
evidence it received. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman