DRN-4234892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that their claim for storm damage was unfairly declined under their 
home insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
What happened
Following a storm Mr and Mrs R said they noticed damp patches on their bedroom wall, on 
the inside gable wall into which a chimney was built. Mr and Mrs R said the chimney hadnt 
been used for around 20 years.
The day Mr and Mrs R noticed the damage, they phoned a local contractor. He inspected the 
damage and recommended repairs, which Mr and Mrs R agreed to. The invoice was titled 
storm damage to chimney and slate roof and listed the work that was completed at a cost 
of £2,200.
Around seven weeks later, Mr and Mrs R made a claim for the costs theyd incurred in 
repairing the damage. AXA reviewed and validated the claim, which included one of its 
contracted surveyors taking photos of the property post-repair. AXA said, as the work had 
already been completed, they were unable to confirm the cause of the damage and they 
declined your claim in full. AXA also said there were no prevailing storm conditions on, or 
around the time the damage was noted.
Mr and Mrs R thinks this is unfair and want their costs reimbursed in full.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Whilst he thought there was evidence 
of storm conditions, he didnt think Mr and Mrs R had provided evidence that the storm was 
the main cause of the damage. Mr and Mrs R disagreed, so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA stated in their final response that it declined the claim as it couldnt confirm the cause of 
damage, so Ive considered this.
Mr and Mrs R said they had the repairs completed on their property the same day they first 
noticed the damage. Its a policyholders responsibility to inform their insurer of any damage 
or potential damage to their property as soon as it is known. This allows insurers an 
opportunity to validate any damage. Mr and Mrs R didnt make their claim until 7 weeks later. 
I find this odd. I wouldve expected Mr and Mrs R to make the claim as soon as they were 
aware of the damage, especially if they hoped to recoup their costs.
A policy covers certain events. In Mr and Mrs Rs case they made a claim under the storm 
peril. So, AXA are entitled when they validate the claim, to send a surveyor to assess 
whether there is any evidence of storm damage. Unfortunately, as Mr and Mrs R had the 
work completed before AXA had opportunity to review any damage, theyve made it 
extremely hard to evidence that the storm caused it.
Mr and Mrs Rs roofing contractor said the storm had caused the damage. Unfortunately, this 
isnt enough. Our service requires our decisions to be based on evidence. The roofing 
contractor hasnt provided a report to justify why he thinks the storm was the main cause. I 
think AXA has been fair in asking for any photographs in the absence of a report from an 
expert. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R couldnt take these photos themselves, but I think the 
roofing contractor couldve done if hed been asked.
However, as no evidence has been provided to show the storm caused the damage, its 
impossible for me to confirm whether it has or not. Its possible the damage could also have 
been caused by a pre-existing weakness in the roof and the storm merely highlighted this.
I think AXA has been fair in declining the claim on this basis, as Mr and Mrs R havent been 
able to evidence the storm caused damage and was the main cause. So, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman