DRN-4153805
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect him 
from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the 
money once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In February 2018 Mr W saw an advert on social media for a company Ill refer to as O, 
which stated it accepted investments for as little as £10. Mr W thought the investment was 
genuine because hed heard a lot about cryptocurrency and the fact celebrities had made a 
lot of money, and because it was advertised on a social media platform he trusted. 
He clicked on a link to Os website and completed a contact form. He was then contacted by 
someone claiming to be a broker working for O, who advised him to invest £250, which he 
transferred from his Halifax account on 1 February 2018. Later the same day, the broker told 
him he should invest more, so he paid a further £5,750. 
After sending the money, he searched O online and found a phone number, which he called 
for confirmation the broker really worked there. Satisfied O was genuine, he transferred a 
further £5,000 on 8 February 2018.
When Mr W asked to make a withdrawal, he was told hed have to wait 30 days. And after 
30 days, he was told hed have to wait another 30 days, at which point he realised he was 
the victim of a scam. He contacted Halifax, but it said it was out of time to raise a 
chargeback dispute.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and so he complained to Halifax, but it refused to refund the money 
hed lost. It said he hadnt done enough to protect himself and hed failed to complete any 
independent research to verify O was genuine. It said if hed completed proper due 
diligence, hed have established O wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). 
Mr W complained to this service with the help of a representative. He said Halifax failed to 
intervene when he made the payments. He had believed the investment was genuine 
because he wasnt an experienced investor, he thought the social media platform vetted its 
advertisers, and he had contacted the number hed found to confirm the broker was genuine. 
He did authorise the payments, but he wouldnt have gone ahead if he had any inclination 
this was a scam. 
Mr Ws representative said Halifax should have intervened as hed made three payments to 
a new payee linked to cryptocurrency that totalled £11,000 within the space of 9 days. They 
said the payments should have been an immediate red flag, and more should have been 
done to protect him. They said he paid £6,000 to a new payee in two payments on the same 
day, and eight days later, he sent another £5,000 to the same payee.  
The representative said Halifax should have contacted Mr W to ask any probing questions 
and had it identified the payments as unusual and suspicious, it would have been apparent 
that he was falling victim to a scam. They said its likely he would have fully explained what 
he was doing and that everything had originated from a broker, and it should have provided 
a scam warning.
The representative said the largest payment in November was £896.91 to a kitchen store. In 
December 2017, the largest payment was £579.45, and in January 2018 the largest 
payment was £250. They said Mr Ws usual financial activity was under £1,000, and he 
repeatedly shopped in the same places. So, the disputed payments were suspicious and 
unusual, especially as they were to a new payee that was linked to cryptocurrency.
Our investigator explained that Mr W was out of time to raise a chargeback request and that 
even if he was in time, he didnt have evidence that he had an available balance and that he 
tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, the available balances on the same day. So, 
there was no prospect of a valid chargeback claim.
She was satisfied that O was operating a scam. She explained the first payment on 1 
February 2018 was in line with other debits and transfers on the account, so she didnt think 
it was unusual. And at the time of the payment, there were no regulatory warnings with either 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) websites. So, she didnt think Halifax needed to intervene. 
But she did think the second payment of £5,750 ought to have triggered a warning because 
it took place on the same day, the payments were to new payee, which was associated with 
cryptocurrency, and it was high value compared to previous payments on the account. The 
payment also represented the highest amount paid from the account in a single day and 
marked a change in the way Mr W had operated the account previously. 
Our investigator was satisfied that if Halifax had asked Mr W what the payments were for 
and the basic surrounding context, it is likely hed have fully explained what he was doing 
and that everything had been done over the phone and online with the merchant, in 
response to which it ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning. It could have 
invited him to check whether the payee was registered with the FCA. It could also have 
explained its own customer experiences with merchants like O and the fact there was 
information in the public domain about the very high risks associated with binary options.
She thought Mr W would have looked more closely into O before proceeding as theres no 
evidence that he was willing to take high risks or that he had a history of speculative 
investments or gambling. And she thought he would likely have made further enquiries into 
binary-options scams and whether O was regulated in the UK or abroad.
Because of this, she was satisfied Halifax failed to intervene in circumstances which might 
have prevented Mr Ws loss, so she recommended it should refund the money hed lost from 
the second payment onwards.
Halifax has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman arguing Mr W should 
have researched the investment before going ahead, possibly taking independent financial 
advice. It has said the second payment was a card payment, so a new payee wasnt set up 
and it could only see the information about the merchant entity as provided by Visa and 
Mastercard. It also said there is no accurate method of taking FCA lists through to matching 
against merchant trading information and the FCA and IOSCO warnings werent published 
until March 2018.It also said customers do change their spending habits from time to time, Mr W knew the 
investment was high risk and there was little information available at the time that would 
have prompted him to act differently. It said questioning wouldnt have uncovered the fact he 
was falling victim to a scam and the non-regulation of a company doesnt necessarily mean 
its acting dishonestly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr W has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover Mr Ws payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr W).
However, the scheme sets the rules and there are specific time limits that must be applied.
Those rules state that a claim can be brought no later than 120 days than the date of the
transaction. In Mr Ws case, the claim was referred to Halifax after this time, so this wasnt 
an option.
Im satisfied Mr W authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. This is because, in 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating 
in the UK were required to be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  whereas O 
was not. Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware.
This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate 
firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
Further, on 28 March 2018, a warning about O was published by the FCA on their website. 
That warning stated that the FCA believed the merchant was providing financial services or 
products in the UK without their authorisation.There are also several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forums
stating that O were scammers. This hearsay is not in itself sufficient evidence of fraud. But in 
the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and reasonably be regarded as 
circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture of scammers dishonestly seeking 
gains at the expense of others.
Prevention
Although Mr W didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Halifax had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams, so I need to consider 
whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr W when he tried to make the payments. If 
there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Halifax to intervene with 
a view to protecting Mr W from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Halifaxs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr W 
normally ran his account, and I think they were. The first payment was only £250, so I dont 
think Halifax needed to intervene at that point. However, later the same day, Mr W made 
another payment of £5,750 to the same payee. Our investigator has said Halifax ought to 
have intervened at that point and I agree. This is because the amount was higher that any 
payments Mr W had made in the months prior and I think this constituted a change in 
operation of the account because it related to an investment, it was to a new payee, and it 
was significantly higher than the previous spending on the account.
Halifax has said it wouldnt have detected this as a new payee because it was a card 
payment, so it could only see the information provided by Visa. But I dont accept the fact 
this was a card payment means Halifax had any less of an obligation to be alert to the fact it 
was uncharacteristic of the normal spending on the account and I agree with our investigator 
that it should have intervened when Mr W tried to make the second payment.
Halifax ought to have contacted Mr W to ask questions about the purpose of the payments, 
whether there was a third party involved and if so, who they were and how he came into 
contact with them. Im satisfied that if Mr W had been asked robust questions, hed have 
answered truthfully because theres no evidence of him having misled the bank before or 
that he was told to lie by the broker. And I think hed have told Halifax that hed been advised 
to invest in cryptocurrency by someone hed met online and who claimed to work for O. 
I accept the FCA warning hadnt yet been published, but Im satisfied Halifax wouldve 
gathered enough information to enable it to identify this was possibly a scam. Crucially, in 
2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK were required to be 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, I would expect Halifax to have warned Mr 
W about the risks associated with the investment and to have explained the importance of 
checking the FCA register, because if O wasnt regulated by the FCA or any other 
jurisdiction, it would indicate they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions, 
as legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
If this had happened, I think its likely Mr W would have made enquiries into binary-options 
scams and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-options/forex scams and he would have realised O wasnt authorised by the FCA, which would probably have 
exposed that O was operating a scam.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr W was keen to take risks. He didnt have a history of 
high-risk investing and I think that if hed had any inkling this might be a scam, its likely he 
would have chosen not to go ahead with the payments. And because of this, I think Halifax 
missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when to do so might have prevented his 
loss. Consequently, Halifax should refund the money he lost from the second payment 
onwards.
Contributory negligence
I accept theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr W 
was to blame for the fact he didnt foresee the risk.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should: 
refund £10,750.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax deducts tax in relation to the interest element of 
this award it should provide Mr W with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman