DRN-3403229
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed her account.
What happened
Ms O had a credit account with Halifax which she wanted to close in 2020. However, there 
was a balance outstanding to be repaid at that time, and Halifax told her that shed need to 
clear that balance before the account could be closed. 
In 2021, Ms Os financial position improved, and she cleared the balance outstanding on the 
card with a view to using the credit account once again. But once the balance was cleared, 
Halifax closed Ms Os account without any instruction from her. Ms O wasnt happy about 
this, or with how Halifaxs agent had spoken to her on the telephone when shed called to 
discuss the matter with them. So, she raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Ms Os complaint. They explained that the account had been closed in 
2020, when Ms O first requested it, and that since then Ms O had been repaying the balance 
owing on the closed account. Halifax also didnt feel that their agent had spoken to Ms O 
rudely as Ms O believed, and so they didnt uphold Ms Os complaint.
Ms O wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Halifax had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms O in how theyd managed this situation, and so 
they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Ms O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that Ms O did instruct Halifax to close the account during a 
telephone call the took place on 13 January 2020. Ive listened to a recording of this call, and 
Halifaxs agent explains that the account will be closed as per Ms Os request, but that Ms O 
will still be required to repay the outstanding balance remaining on the closed account 
moving forwards. Halifaxs agent then confirms with Ms O on several further occasions 
during the call that she does want the account to be closed.
As such, Im satisfied that Ms O clearly instructed Halifax to close the account in 2020 and 
that she was clearly informed by Halifax that the account would be closed and confirmed her 
understanding and acceptance of the closure on several occasions during that call.
Its also notable that following the call where Ms O requested the closure of the account in 
January 2020, a letter was sent to Ms O by Halifax which confirmed the account closure. 
Additionally, all the subsequent account statements sent to Ms O by Halifax also confirmed 
that the account was closed.
Considering the above, Im satisfied that it wasnt the case that Halifax closed Ms Os 
account without notifying her or without her instruction, but that Halifax did in fact close Ms 
Os account in January 2020 following a clear and repeated request from Ms O to do so. 
Im aware that Ms O is also unhappy with the standard of service she received from Halifaxs 
agent when she called Halifax to question the closure of her account and raise her complaint 
about it in December 2021. Accordingly, Ive also listened to a recording of this call, and 
having done so I dont feel that Halifaxs agent was rude to Ms O as Ms O contends. Indeed, 
its notable that during that call Ms O repeated spoke over Halifaxs agent as he attempted to 
explain the situation to her, and I feel that Halifaxs agent remained calm and reasonable 
throughout the call.
All of which means I dont feel that Halifax have acted unfairly towards Ms O in the manner 
that she contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Halifax to take any further action at this time.   
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms O was wanting, but I trust shell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman