DRN-4386665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) declined their 
claim for the cost of repairing damage caused by trace and access.
Mr and Mrs M had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by LBG. The policy was in 
joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr M throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr M had a leak which was handled separately by his home emergency insurer (which Ill 
call HEI). He claimed under the buildings policy he had with LBG for the cost of repairing 
damage caused by tracing and accessing the leak.
LBG declined the claim because the work needed was due to poor workmanship, and Mr 
Ms policy excluded cover for that cause.
Mr M complained to LBG. He said it had incorrectly assumed the HEI caused the pipe to 
leak, but hed only provided information about the work done as background. Mr M wanted 
LBG to cover the cost of the damage caused when the HEI traced and accessed the leak.
LBG remained of the view that the claim was due to poor workmanship and issued its final 
response. Mr M brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator initially thought LBG should pay for the damage caused by the trace and 
access. But, on receipt of additional evidence, he didnt think LBG had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator said the evidence didnt show that Mr M had incurred any costs directly 
attributable to trace and access. Therefore, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree. He said two points had been disputed and he provided further comment. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
in part Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
To begin with Ill explain the relevant background to the complaint a little further to help 
explain how Ive reached my provisional decision. 
Mr Ms HEI had attended his home on several occasions because of problems with his 
boiler. Eventually, it concluded there must be a leak. Because a sealant had been put into 
the pipe, the HEI couldnt carry out what it described as a usual trace, so it used thermal 
imaging. That revealed potential leaks in the pipes under the ground floor. The ground floor 
was covered with wood flooring, and the HEI thought it would be too costly to remove it all to 
fix the leak. 
The HEI said the pipe was inadequately protected from the concrete floor, which caused the 
pipe to rot and leak. The water soaked into the ground, so it hadnt caused damage to Mr 
Ms home.
The HEI also noted that the pipework was not up to current standards, and it reached an 
agreement with Mr M to re-pipe his house. 
Turning now to his complaint about LBG, Mr M said there are two issues in dispute:
LBG declined his claim because the problems were caused by poor workmanship by 
the HEI.
There is no claim because the floor was damaged after the cause of the leak was 
traced.
Poor workmanship
The expert reports regarding the leaking pipe confirm that it was not adequately protected 
from rot caused by the concrete floor. I understand Mr M is unhappy that LBG referred to the 
HEI installing the pipes and/or the boiler incorrectly  so, poor workmanship. But Mr M 
explained that hed given the information just for background and it was nothing to do with 
the trace and access cost.
I can understand why Mr M is frustrated that LBG blamed the HEI for poor workmanship. 
The reports available to both Mr M and LBG state that the concrete caused the inadequately 
protected pipe to rot and leak. But the HEI didnt install the pipe. 
This complaint has become complicated, I think, because of the various parties involved at 
different stages. So Ill focus now on what Mr M claimed for under his policy with LBG, the 
policy terms and conditions relevant to that claim, and whether LBGs response to the claim 
was fair in the circumstances.
Claim
Mr Ms claim was for the repair of damage caused when accessing a leak in his central 
heating pipes. He claimed under section D of the buildings insurance, which is detailed in the 
policy booklet as follows:
D. Tracing and accessing leaks inside the home.
The insurance provided by paragraphs 7 and 9 of section 1 also covers the reasonable 
costs involved in tracing the source of the escape of water or leakage of oil and 
replacement or repair of any walls, floors or ceilings (including fixtures and fittings 
attached to them), inside the home where this damage occurs in the course of these 
investigations. The most the insurer will pay is £5,000.Your insurer will not pay for:
The costs of repair of the source of the damage unless the cause is covered 
elsewhere in this policy.
Section 1, paragraph 7 referred to here is:
7. Escape of water.
Your insurer will not pay for:
Loss or damage to property that happens gradually over a period of time, such as 
corrosion or rusting, sulphate reacting with any material from which the property is 
built.
Escape of water is defined in the policy booklet as follows:
Water that has entered the boundaries of your property by the mains water supply and 
has, at some point on its journey within your home, escaped from the pipe, tank or 
appliance that it was in and caused damage to your home.
So, for Mr M to have a successful claim under this section of the policy, hed need to show 
that:
his home was damaged when trying to trace and access the leak to complete a 
repair, and
his home was damaged by an escape of water.
The repair itself would not be covered. 
Tracing the leak
The evidence from the HEI leak tracing shows that potential leaks were identified under the 
concrete floor using thermal imaging. Thermal imaging didnt cause damage and Mr M 
hasnt claimed it did. So, I accept that theres no expectation of cover under the trace part of 
this section.
Accessing the leak
Mr M said his bedroom flooring was removed and its this damage he is claiming for. LBG 
doesnt think thered be any reason to remove the flooring to access the leak.
Id need to see that Mr M has provided enough evidence to show that the floor was removed 
to access the leak for a repair. However, based on the reports provided by the HEI, LBG and 
Mr Ms own account of events, Im not persuaded that the bedroom floor was removed to 
access the source of the leak in order to effect a repair. It seems the floor was removed to 
bypass the leak  that would be classed as the repair which isnt covered under the policy. 
At that point the one-pipe system issue became apparent. Thats irrelevant to Mr Ms 
complaint so I wont go into that further.
Ive noted Mr Ms comment that on 25 February the HEI, interfered with the flooring, which 
was where the damage being claimed was caused. Ive looked at the report from that date 
but theres nothing to indicate the floor was damaged. Theres a box with the heading 
Disturbance necessary to gain access, with a response of none. The subsequent report, dated 25 March, gives details of the work undertaken when trying to 
bypass the leak. I note the report includes authorisation from Mr M to remove the flooring. As 
that work was to effect the repair, I think its reasonable to say the damage was the result of 
repair rather than accessing the leak.
So, the evidence indicates there was no attempt to access the leaking pipe in the concrete 
ground floor; therefore, there can be no damage to repair under this section of the policy.   
LBGs response
Turning now to LBGs response to Mr M, it declined his claim for the following reason:
the works required to be undertaken was as a result of poor workmanship. 
Unfortunately, your policy does not cover for this. 
As Ive already said, it seems LBG relied on this reason due to some confusion over the 
pipework in question. Therefore, I dont think LBG declined the claim fairly for the reason 
given. 
Ordinarily, Id ask LBG to reconsider the claim in circumstances where I thought it relied on a 
policy exclusion unfairly. However, I think that would simply extend the claim process for no 
real benefit to Mr M. Thats because theres sufficient evidence to suggest his claim wasnt 
covered by the policy. 
Mr M confirmed his home wasnt damaged by the leak. The water escaped from pipes under 
the concrete ground floor and soaked away. 
Based on the policy definition of escape of water, and LBGs confirmation to this service, 
thered be no cover for Mr Ms claim. Thats because the condition only applies where 
damage has been caused by the escape of water.
While LBG confirmed for this service that it was a further reason to decline the claim, it 
seems it didnt explain that to Mr M. I think its service fell short of what Mr M could 
reasonably have expected here. Im minded to ask LBG to pay £100 compensation by way 
of apology for the confusion and the avoidable delays caused by its failure to refer to the 
relevant policy terms and conditions which applied in the circumstances.
Im aware that LBG has already offered Mr M £100 compensation for prematurely closing his 
claim. For clarity, my proposal is to pay an additional £100 compensation for the shortfalls 
identified here.
In summary, the evidence doesnt show that:
Mr Ms home was damaged when trying to trace and access the leak to complete a 
repair, or
that his home was damaged by an escape of water.
Therefore, I think it was reasonable that LBG declined his claim. However, I dont think the 
reason it gave was fair in the circumstances, resulting in confusion and avoidable delays. In 
recognition of that, I think LBG should pay compensation of £100. But I see no reason to ask 
LBG to pay for any repair costs.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.Both Mr M and LBG accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr and Mrs M and LBG accepted, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I uphold in part Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
pay £100 compensation for the confusion about the policy and the resulting 
avoidable delays caused in handling Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman