DRN-3038361
The complaint
Mr C complains at how a claim he made on his motor insurance policy with Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited was handled. Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
 Mr C was involved in a road traffic accident that wasnt his fault in July 2019. He called 
Advantage to report the incident and make a claim for the damage to his car. But despite 
making it clear he didnt want to use a third-party company for the repairs, Advantage 
passed Mr C to a third party who Ill call A.
A dealt with Mr Cs claim and arranged to have his car repaired. But when he got his car 
back, Mr C noticed problems with it. There was paint on one of the seats, damage to the 
front wing and the fuel sensor wasnt working. His car was delivered back to him with no fuel 
in either  so Mr C says he was unable to drive his car.
Mr C said the day after he got his car back, he was due to travel to Monaco to take pictures 
 hes a photographer by profession. Hes said he wasnt able to go on that trip because of 
the condition of his car. Mr C has since found his car is driveable  but he needs to top up 
the fuel more regularly than normal as the fuel sensor is still broken. Mr C has said he was 
quoted £1,443.30 for the repairs.
Mr C complained to Advantage. He said he made it explicitly clear he didnt want to use a 
third party to deal with his claim, but that Advantage left him with no other option. He thinks 
that had Advantage dealt with his claim from the start, as he requested, he wouldnt have 
experienced the problems he has with A.
Advantage acknowledged it didnt do enough to explain Mr Cs options when he called it to 
make a claim. And its said it understands why Mr C felt forced to use A. It offered Mr C £80 
compensation. But it said Mr C entered into a separate agreement with A. And Advantage 
says it cant be held responsible for As actions as part of that agreement.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. He wanted 
Advantage to repair his car and he wanted it to pay him compensation for the lost earnings 
from the trip he was unable to go on. He also thought Advantage should compensate him for 
legal fees hed paid to a solicitor in raising and dealing with this complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs and thought that Mr C would never have entered 
into a separate agreement with A had Advantage explained his options better. So she 
thought Advantage were potentially responsible for the issues Mr C was experiencing with 
his car.
Our investigator first recommended Advantage either pay for the repairs or arrange an 
inspection of Mr Cs car to see if the problems he was experiencing were linked to either the 
accident or the repairs A carried out. But Advantage didnt agree to either option. It 
maintained that it couldnt look into the repairs carried out by A as they were carried out 
under a separate agreement that Mr A signed and agreed to. Advantage said that if it were 
to now look at the car and/or carry out the repairs it would have to record these on the claim, 
and it wouldnt be able to recover these from the third party (the one responsible for the 
accident).
Our investigator considered Advantages response. She thought that if Advantage wasnt 
willing to inspect Mr Cs car then it should pay the cost of the repairs. And she said that 
these shouldnt be recorded as a claim cost, but as a complaint cost  meaning this claim 
would still be recorded as a non-fault claim. She recommended Advantage pay Mr C £600 
compensation for not being able to go on the trip to Monaco. But she didnt think Mr C had 
shown what hed lost  financially by not going on the trip. So, she didnt ask Advantage to 
pay anything toward Mr Cs lost earnings. She also didnt think Advantage needed to pay 
toward Mr Cs legal fees.
Advantage disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision but provided no further 
reasoning.
Mr C also disagreed. He didnt think £600 was enough compensation for the potential lost 
earnings he would have earnt from the trip to Monaco.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr C called to make his claim, he wasnt given clear information about his options. 
Advantage has acknowledged this and said it understands why Mr C felt he was forced to 
use A. Its clear Mr C wanted to claim through his own policy and not use a third-party. But 
he was left with no other option after calling his insurers. Advantage has acknowledged it 
made an error here, so I need to consider what would have happened had it not made that 
error.
I think its clear that had Mr C been given the option of claiming on his own policy, he would 
have taken it  that was his intention all along. Interestingly, A operates as both Advantages 
approved repairer and as an accident management company in their own right. So more 
likely than not, Mr C would have been dealing with A anyway, even if he claimed on his own 
policy.
Advantage has said Mr C entered into a separate agreement with A, so it doesnt think it can 
be held responsible for As actions. But I disagree. Mr C only entered into a separate 
agreement with A because Advantage gave him the impression that it was his only option. 
As mentioned above, Mr C would likely have been dealing with A anyway had Advantage not 
made an error in referring him to A. I think therefore its likely that Mr C would have still 
experienced the issues he has experienced with A, even if Advantage hadnt made its error. 
The only difference would be in what capacity A were acting.
But if A were acting as Advantages approved repairer - as it likely would have been had 
Advantage not made its error - then Advantage would ultimately have been responsible for 
As actions. I dont find it reasonable that Advantage say its now not responsible for As 
actions because it acted in a different capacity  under a separate agreement with Mr C  
when the only reason A was acting in that capacity was a result of Advantages error.
Therefore, I agree with our investigators view that Advantage should take back this claim 
and take ownership of the problems Mr C is reporting. This is because had it not made its error when referring Mr C to A, it would have likely been responsible for investigating Mr Cs 
concerns with the repairs as part of his claim  because its likely A would have been 
carrying out those repairs.
Advantage has been given the option to inspect the car to see if the repairs were related to 
the accident or the repairs. But Advantage didnt want to take this option so I think it should 
pay Mr C for the cost of the repairs upon receipt of a valid invoice. 
Putting things right
Advantage should pay Mr C the cost of these repairs upon receipt of a valid invoice. And its 
important Mr C isnt further prejudiced by Advantage paying these costs. Mr C was involved 
in a non-fault accident and so this claim should remain recorded as such. So, any costs 
Advantage does pay should be recorded as complaint costs, not claim costs.
Im aware Mr C wants compensating for the money hes paid to a legal representative. But 
thats not something I require Advantage to pay. We are a free to use service, therefore 
Mr Cs decision to pay someone to deal with his complaint was ultimately his choice. Im 
satisfied Advantage made it clear he could bring his complaint to us when it issued its final 
response. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Cs claim for lost earnings. But due to the nature of his work, 
and indeed the nature of his proposed trip to Monaco, calculating any loss is extremely 
difficult. Mr C has explained that hes a professional photographer, and hes told us that 
sometimes images sell for significant amounts of money (he had one photo earn him approx. 
£25,000), sometimes they sell for significantly less, and sometimes they dont sell at all. Hes 
provided us his earnings over a number of years to demonstrate this.
But Im also aware this proposed trip to Monaco was to take a different kind of photo. Mr C 
has gone further to explain why he was changing the subject of his photos, and from what 
hes told our investigator I can understand why hes made this decision. But as Mr C has 
himself pointed out, had he gone to Monaco, its possible that none of the photos he took 
would have sold. Im aware by that same token, its possible that one photo could have sold 
for a significant amount.
I also have to consider that Mr C hasnt shown us much to demonstrate he was actually 
going to Monaco. There are system notes saying he was due to go to Monaco the day after 
he got his car back, hes said he was going to sleep mostly in his car. But Mr C hasnt been 
able to show us any booked travel to get his car onto the continent.
I dont doubt that Mr C planned on going to Monaco but I also have to consider whether its 
fair to ask Advantage to compensate him for such an uncertain potential loss. And I need to 
consider whether the issues with his car were the main factor in him not going on this trip.
Our investigator recommended £600 compensation. And I think thats reasonable. This isnt 
saying Mr Cs work would have been worth £600. I cant say how much his work would have 
been worth, and in fairness neither can he. But this £600 represents the lost opportunity to 
go on the trip to Monaco.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. To put things right I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay for the repairs to Mr Cs car (Rear seat, front wing and fuel sensor) upon receipt of a valid invoice
Record the costs paid as complaint costs not claim costs
Pay Mr C £600 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman