DRN-4359698
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked a credit card payment to his investment 
account, causing him to lose his investment.
What happened
Mr M trades on the stock market, and until October 2022 he used to use his HSBC credit 
card to make payments into his online account with a third party. He says that time is often 
of the essence when making such payments, in order to avoid his positions being closed. 
However, in that month he tried to make a payment of £10,000 into his account, but his 
payment was declined. He called HSBC and explained the urgency of his situation, but was 
told that there was nothing they could do. He says that as a result he lost his investment, 
which was over £11,000, and he also lost the profit which he could have made but for that 
loss, which he says was £12,000. So he complained, first to HSBC and then to our service. 
He would like to be reimbursed around £23,000  the lost investment, and the loss of profit.
HSBC gave two reasons why the payment had been declined. It had originally been declined 
because Mr M had entered the wrong CVC code (the security number on the back of the 
card). After he entered the right code, it had been declined because in September 2022 
HSBC had changed its policy on processing what it calls cash related payments (the 
definition of which was enlarged at that time to include trading stocks and other securities), 
and there was a limit on the amount of such payments which can be made in any 24 hour 
period. Mr M had tried to exceed that limit (which was lower than his credit limit), so the 
payment had not gone through. However, as a gesture of good will HSBC offered Mr M £100 
(which he did not accept, and which has therefore not been paid).
After Mr M brought this complaint to our service, HSBC added a third reason: its terms and 
conditions said (in clause 5.2) that it could refuse to process a transaction if it was for 
gambling. It said Mr M had been spread betting, so this was covered by that clause.
Our investigator accepted the explanation about the security code, but he did not accept the 
explanation concerning cash payment limits. He pointed out that there was nothing about 
this in the terms and conditions, and HSBC had never told Mr M about them (until he had 
complained). All that its customers had been told in September 2022 was that interest would 
be charged on cash related payments, and that was all. He also did not think that clause 5.2 
applied to Mr Ms case.
The investigator upheld this complaint, and recommended that HSBC refund Mr Ms loss of 
around £11,000, and also pay him £400 for his distress. But he did not think HSBC should 
have to pay Mr Ms alleged loss of profit, as that was too speculative. The investigator later 
referred this case for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clause 5.2 begins with these words:
Well refuse to authorise a transaction if we have a reason to believe its for 
gambling.
Mr M was spread betting, so I think this clause applied to the relevant transactions. This was 
not a new rule introduced in September 2022; it was already part of the terms and 
conditions. So Im satisfied that HSBC did not have to make the payments, and it had 
warned Mr M that it might not make them.
That does not change the fact that the actual reason why the payments were not processed 
was not because of clause 5.2, but because they exceeded the cash related payments limit, 
which was £5,000. And I dont think that HSBC told Mr M about that limit in September 2022. 
I have read the September email, and it doesnt say anything about limiting the amount of 
cash related payments. It just says that a fee of 2.99% of the payment amount will be 
charged on all such payments, when previously this fee had only been charged on some of 
them. Theres nothing about a transaction limit.
So the position is that HSBC stopped Mr Ms payment for a reason which it had not told him 
about, when instead it could have stopped the payment for another reason which it had told 
him about. I have to decide whether this matters.
On one hand, it could be argued that although HSBC could have blocked the payment under 
clause 5.2, it didnt do that, so clause 5.2 is irrelevant in this case. On the other hand, Mr M 
was on notice that payments (of any amount) to his online spread betting account could be 
blocked by HSBC, and he still took the risk of that happening. (He might not have read 
clause 5.2, or he might not have remembered reading it, but HSBC had told him about it 
nevertheless, and he had agreed to this term of his contract.) For that reason, I do not think 
that clause 5.2 is irrelevant here, and so I think it would not be fair and reasonable to require 
HSBC to reimburse Mr M for his loss arising from the failure to make the payment.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
I now invite Mr M and HSBC to let me have any further comments by 6 November 2023, 
after which I will issue my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
The above deadline was subsequently extended to 20 November and then to 27 November, 
but neither party provided a substantive response to my provisional decision. So there is no 
reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. But part from that, this final decision brings to 
an end our services involvement in this case.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman