The complaint
Mr C complains about a data breach after Santander UK Plc released private information to 
a family member. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Santander was contacted by the Information Commissioners Office after Mr C raised
his concerns about a data breach. Santander accepts it released private information
that led to a family member being told Mr C has an account. Santander sent Mr C a
cheque for £75 and apologised for what happened. Ive considered whether
Santander has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly.
Its not our role to fine or punish a business for making an error. Our approach is to
consider whether a settlement proposed by a business is fair and reflects the impact
of the errors on its customer. Ive taken into account that Mr Cs family member was
told he has a Santander account. But no other information was given. No account
balance or other private details were shared. Whilst private information was shared, I
think the impact was limited.
Im sorry to upset Mr C as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But Im
satisfied Santander has dealt with his complaint fairly. I think £75 reasonably reflects
the impact of Santanders errors on Mr C.
As Im satisfied Santander has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to
take any further action. If Mr C didn't deposit the £75 cheque and now wishes to
accept Santander's offer, he can contact the business directly or ask our investigator
to arrange payment.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because Santander UK Plc's proposed 
settlement is fair and reasonable. 
DRN-1769218Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman