DRN-2900688
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) settled 
their insurance claims under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P had a water leak in their home. They contacted RSA to make an insurance 
claim. RSA accepted the claim and carried out repairs. About six months later, Mr P and Mrs 
P had another water leak in their home. They contacted RSA again to make a claim. RSA 
accepted the claim and carried out repairs.
About four months later, Mr P and Mrs P had another leak in their home. They, again, 
contacted RSA. RSA accepted the claim. The leak was in a wet room and when RSAs 
contractors started the repair work, they found that the room hadnt been properly 
constructed. Without work to deal with those issues, it was likely that there would be further 
leaks. However, RSA wouldnt carry out the work as part of the claim, as this would be 
betterment. RSA offered to cash settle the repairs that came within the claim so that Mr P 
and Mrs P could get all the work to the bathroom done at the same time.
Mr P and Mrs P complained to RSA about all of the claims, including because some of the 
repairs hadnt lasted. When RSA replied, it accepted that some of the repairs hadnt been 
carried out to the required standard. As Mr P and Mrs P had lost confidence in RSAs 
contractors, they didnt want RSA to do the work to fix the issues. So, RSA offered a cash 
settlement so Mr P and Mrs P could arrange for their own builder to carry out the work. For 
the wet room repairs, RSA said that there were issues with the construction of the room, so 
it couldnt just be returned to its previous condition but dealing with the issues would be 
betterment, so wasnt covered as part of the claim. RSA was satisfied that the cash 
settlement offered was reasonable in the circumstances. RSA also offered £750 
compensation for the issues with the first two claims. 
Mr P and Mrs P asked RSA to increase its offer, but it declined to do so. So, Mr P and Mrs P 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said that RSA 
had appropriately dealt with Mr P and Mrs Ps issues with the first two leaks. However, he 
thought that RSA could have dealt with the third claim better, as there were delays and 
communication issues. He said that RSA should pay a further £150 compensation.
In response, RSA said that it didnt think it should pay further compensation. Mr P and Mrs P 
said that they wanted more compensation and a further payment towards the cost of repairs. 
So, the complaint has been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part. But I explained that RSA 
hadnt responded to my questions about this complaint, so based on further evidence 
received from both parties, I might come to a different view on the outcome of this case.
 
I issued my second provisional decision on 8 June 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint in part, I said:
Im aware that Mr P and Mrs P said that the three leaks at their home were the same leak 
that wasnt properly repaired each time. However, Ive looked at the details of each claim 
and a report carried out by an independent expert on RSAs behalf and, on that basis, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for RSA to decide that these were three separate claims and 
that the source of the leak was different in each case.
Having looked at the details of this case, I can see there were issues with the repairs that 
were carried out on the first two leaks. RSA has accepted that this was the case. RSA said it 
would arrange for its own contractors to do the work, but Mr P and Mrs P didnt want to use 
RSAs contractors. So, RSA offered a cash settlement for the amount it would have cost 
RSA to do the work. However, Mr P and Mrs P wanted RSA to pay them the amount it would 
cost them to get the work done themselves.
Ive read the policy terms and conditions. These said:
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to pay 
our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we 
would have paid our preferred supplier.
So, I think RSAs offer to settle these claims for the amount it would have cost it to do the 
work was in line with the terms and conditions. I also note that RSA was open to a 
discussion with Mr P and Mrs P about an appropriate cash settlement and, as a result, 
revised its offers. I can understand that Mr P and Mrs P might not have wanted RSA to do 
the work, but I dont think that meant that RSA had to revise the amount further and pay the 
amount it would cost Mr P and Mrs P to get the work done themselves. As a result, I dont 
currently intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
In my first provisional decision, I said that the same principle applied to the third claim, for 
the wet room. However, there were additional considerations that applied. These were that 
when RSAs contractors stripped out the room, it found that it hadnt been properly 
constructed. So, RSA said that fixing some of it didnt fall within the claim and would be 
classed at betterment.
RSA said its contractors could do all the work and Mr P and Mrs P would need to pay the 
contractors for the work that wasnt part of the claim. RSA said that, alternatively, it would 
pay a cash settlement for the repairs that formed part of the claim and Mr P and Mrs P could 
then arrange their own contractor and get the additional work done at the same time at their 
own cost. Mr P and Mrs P wanted a cash settlement but asked to be paid the full amount it 
would cost them to get the whole bathroom repaired and restored.
In my view, the basis on which RSA offered the cash settlement was in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. However, I issued a provisional decision because I had asked 
RSA on a few occasions what it had classed as betterment, but it didnt reply. So, I said RSA 
should pay the full costs of this part of the works, as it hadnt been possible to identify what 
was in and out of scope of the claim.
Both RSA and Mr P and Mrs P provided further information and evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Having considered that, Im now of the view that RSAs settlement offer 
was reasonable and that it doesnt need to pay anything further in order to settle the claim.
RSA said the main elements of betterment were the tanking, a new wet room tray and the 
bespoke stone benches. Having looked at the details of these elements, Im satisfied that 
these were betterment. The first two items were to make the room a proper wet room. Im 
aware that Mr P and Mrs P have said they didnt ask the contractors to do this work and they 
just wanted the room restored to its previous condition. But I dont think this would have been a lasting or effective repair, given the issues identified. So, I think it was reasonable 
that the issues were explained to Mr P and Mrs P and they were given the option of RSA 
doing the work, with Mr P and Mrs P paying for the additional work themselves to make it a 
proper wet room, or a cash settlement for the work covered by the claim.  
For the stone benches, Mr P and Mrs P have said they needed to be replaced because they 
would inevitably break when they were removed. However, Im not currently persuaded that 
a competent professional wouldnt be able to attempt to remove properly fitted stone 
benches so that they could be refitted after the works. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest they were damaged as part of the original claim. So, I think new benches would also 
be betterment.
Ive also again considered the delays and communication issues in this case and think there 
were a number of issues, particularly for the third claim. I remain of the view that RSA should 
pay £150 compensation, which is in addition to the £750 it previously paid. There seemed to 
be a range of delays and communication issues in this case and I think this appropriately 
acknowledges the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P and Mrs P during the third 
claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 July 2021. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr P and Mrs P said they had nothing further to add.
RSA accepted the decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision to uphold this complaint in 
part and for the reasons previously given.
  
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mr P and Mrs P a further £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the issues in resolving the third claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr P and 
Mrs P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman