DRN-3786684
The complaint
Ms N and Mrs N have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy following damage to the homes roof.
What happened
Ms N and Mrs N made a claim on their home insurance policy in April 2021, after Ms N 
noticed intermittent water pooling on the inner windowsill of a bedroom when there had been 
heavy rain and it was very windy. Ms N and Mrs N called in roofing contractors who took 
numerous photographs of the damaged roof. The contractors then carried out necessary 
roof works and provided a report. They noted several areas of concern regarding the flat 
roof. In their opinion, previous installation and roof repairs had not been carried out correctly.
Lloyds didnt think that the damage had been caused by a storm as defined in the policy. Nor 
did it think that the issues were due to poor installation of the flat roof by its contractors, as 
theyd only repaired the front section of the roof in 2016. It therefore didnt uphold complaint. 
Ms N and Mrs N were unhappy with Lloyds response to their complaint and they referred 
the matter to our service. In June 2022, Lloyds then offered Ms N and Mrs N payment 
towards the repair costs of £2,200 together with interest of just under £760 due to the 
defective repairs carried out by its contractor to the front section of the roof in 2016. It also 
agreed that Ms N and Mrs N experienced distress and inconvenience due to the poor 
workmanship in 2016 and offered £1,250 compensation. 
Three investigators have looked at this matter and the complaint wasnt upheld. The 
investigators didnt consider that the weather had been sufficiently severe prior to the 2021 
ingress of water to point to storm damage. Nor did they consider that repairs to the front 
section of the roof in 2016 would have caused bubbling and damage across the whole roof. 
The view was therefore that Lloyds hadnt been wrong to decline the claim. As to the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Ms N and Mrs N, our investigator thought that Lloyds offer of 
£1,250 was in line with what the level of compensation that this service would recommend.
Ms N and Mrs N remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the matter has 
now been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider is whether Lloyds applied the terms and conditions of Ms N 
and Mrs Ns policy in a fair and reasonable manner. Whilst I agree that Lloyds contractors 
carried out defective work in 2016, I consider that it has now responded to this issue in a fair 
and reasonable manner. Im also unable to say that Lloyds has acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in its application of the terms and conditions of the policy to the events 
of 2021. Ill explain the reasons for my conclusions as follows.
The starting point for my consideration is the wording of the policy documents. I note that the 
policy covers Ms N and Mrs Ns property in the event of storm damage. A storm is defined in 
the policy as follows: - A period of violent weather defined as: strong winds with gusts of at 
least 55mph; and/or hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard 
surfaces or breaks glass. We will take into consideration the condition of your home. A storm 
can highlight damage rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through wear 
and tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered. Rain alone is not a storm.
There are also standard exclusions within the policy. For instance, the policy doesnt cover 
damage which is caused by wear and tear or faulty workmanship, poor design, or defective 
or inherently unsuitable materials.
I now turn to the submissions of the parties and firstly to what Ms N and Mrs N have said 
about the matter. Theyd been under the impression that the contractors instructed by Lloyds 
in 2016 had installed an entirely new roof rather than the front section only. They said that 
the extent of the damage was revealed by a drone survey commissioned shortly after the 
water leak in 2021. They thought that the report of its roof contractors confirmed that there 
had been recent storm damage, but that there were also major problems with the 2016 
repairs. This included damage to the roof timbers and asphalt and the roofers had to halt 
proceedings to get more materials as they cannot just lay a new roof on top - which will of 
course incur substantial additional costs. 
The eventual cost of repair was over £13,500 and effectively, the contractors laid a new roof 
covering to the flat roof. Ms N and Mrs N said that the Lloyds contractors had simply stuck 
down some material and that this poor workmanship had led to the catastrophic damage in 
2021. Ms N and Mrs N also felt that the two-year guarantee on the 2016 works ...does seem 
an exceptionally short period of time. They also thought that the problem had caused 
damage to the interior of their neighbours home by water getting into their property too.
In summary, Ms N and Mrs N were now seeking to reclaim the cost of a drone survey at just 
over £70, the cost of repairs of over £13,500, the cost of interior damage to their neighbours 
property and compensation for the stress and upset caused. 
In response, Lloyds confirmed that its contractors had completed repairs to the front of the 
roof in 2016 and that the works were guaranteed for two years. It said that should there 
have been any workmanship issues relating directly to Titans repair, this would have 
become evident within those two years. It considered that the damage to the whole roof 
wasnt caused by a one-off storm event, or due to what it accepted to be poor workmanship 
on the front section of the roof in 2016. It thought that this was not just a localised fault but it 
is a widespread failing which the roofer highlights. In summary it said: The business cant 
agree its to be held accountable and maintains the damage noted in the customers report 
was not caused by faulty workmanship in 2016. It thought that there had been poor 
workmanship from the original fitting of the flat roof and/or wear and tear.
In June 2022, Lloyds issued a further response to Ms N and Mrs N. After considering the 
further evidence produced by the policyholders, it reviewed its stance and agreed that the 
work carried out in 2016 may not have been carried out to a satisfactory standard. It 
therefore offered a payment of just over £4,200 in total, to include compensation. It still 
considered that the damage to the remainder of the roof had occurred over time and not as a 
one-off insured event or poor workmanship in 2016. It accepted that its contractors had a 
duty of care however to advise Ms N and Mrs N of the condition of the rest of the roof in 
2016 so that they could arrange comprehensive repairs at that time. It said that it had 
considered this point in making its offer of payment. It also accepted that it had initially 
declined the claim in total in April 2021 and said that the payment also took this into account. 
It appreciated the inconvenience that this had caused for an additional period of 14 months.Looking now at the relevant documentary evidence I note from the 2016 contractors 
estimate or scope of works that they removed front section and fastened new. Lloyds claim 
notes from 2016 also show that; the flat roof has lifted at the front in high winds and caused 
damage only to that area. It is in an exposed location and a tall building, the roof is in 
otherwise good condition It indicated a days work for two operatives.
The report of Ms N and Mrs Ns roofing contractors is particularly persuasive as it was 
compiled following physical inspection and stripping of the roof covering. They then installed 
a new felt roof system. The contractors provided a comprehensive and helpful series of 
photographs. Ms N and Mrs N also produced a helpful image following a drone survey which 
they commissioned. The report stated that the complete roof area had been adhered 
incompetently to the original defective asphalt roof covering. An overlay can only be carried 
out if the existing roof is in good enough condition to do so. In this case the original asphalt 
roof covering was in poor condition along with the timber substrate beneath this as it had 
suffered with water ingress over a period time. It concluded that the roof area was beyond 
repair and that the only way they could stop the water ingress permanently was to remove 
the incompetently installed single ply membrane, the original defective asphalt roof covering 
along with the water damaged timber substrate. 
As to the work carried out by Lloyds contractors in 2016, the report stated that the roof edge 
trim had also been installed incompetently and was not fixed correctly in many areas, 
resulting in pieces falling off and damaged brickwork. It went on to say that the roof runs 
from front to back where the outlets are situated so all rainwater will run from front to back. If 
the front section is defective in a result of poor repair then rainwater can penetrate this area 
and run beneath the roof covering and spread to all areas of the roof. Ive noted that the 
contractors also referred to extreme movement in all areas of the roof.
Lloyds commissioned a desktop report which also recognised that there was an issue 
regarding poor workmanship. It noted that the roof covering has blistered and lifted at the 
edges, the top row of bricks has also become loose.We believe the roof covering should 
not have lifted and believe that although the damaged has been highlighted due to storm we 
feel there to be workmanship issues
Having carefully considered all submissions and documentary evidence together with 
photographs, Ive reached the following conclusions on the balance of probabilities.
Firstly, dealing with the background to this matter, from the available evidence it appears 
that the original flat roof installation and asphalt was covered by an overlay. Its not known 
however how or when this overlay work was carried out. From the photographic evidence 
produced by Ms N and Mr N, it clearly shows bubbling of the roof covering and generally 
poor condition of the roof prior to the 2021 works carried out by their contractors. 
As to the work carried out in 2016 by Lloyds contractors, its most unfortunate that there are 
no longer any photographs available for the work carried out and their report on the works is 
scant. Its not therefore possible to identify the extent of the works the carried out and this is 
not obvious from the 2021 photographs. From the original scope of works and case notes 
Im satisfied that this shows that work was only carried out to the front of the roof and not the 
whole roof. This is supported by the relatively modest cost of the work when compared to the 
cost of the comprehensive work carried out by Ms N and Mrs Ns contractors. The parties 
however now agree that this work was also defective and involved poor workmanship.
Turning to the most likely cause of damage, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that 
the damage identified in 2021 wasnt caused by a one-off storm event. Our service has a 
settled approach to claimed storm damage and the first question we ask is whether there were storm conditions at the relevant time. Ive looked at the weather data for Ms N and Mrs 
Ns area at the relevant time. The data shows that the highest wind speeds in the weeks 
leading up to the damage was 49mph in mid-March 2021. Its clear that this doesnt match 
the policy definition of storm which specifies strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph.
I consider that the damage evidenced by Ms N and Mrs Ns contractors report, including the 
photographic evidence, clearly points to poor workmanship as being the primary cause. 
There appears to be general agreement by the experts that the overlay to the original roof 
was not installed correctly. As stated in the contractors report, this overlay was not fixed 
competently to the original asphalt roof covering. Indeed, it also stated that the asphalt 
covering was defective. The report went on to say that an overlay should only be applied if 
the existing roof is in reasonable condition. Here, he said that the asphalt covering and the 
timber substrate were in poor condition, as theyd suffered from water ingress over time. 
Ive concluded on the basis of the available evidence that the poor condition of the roof, as 
well as the defective overlay, pre-dated the involvement of Lloyds contractors in 2016 and 
that these failures were highlighted by the ingress of rain following winter weather conditions.
The next question for me to determine is whether the works carried out by Lloyds contractors 
in 2016 contributed to the poor condition of the whole roof. Ive noted that Lloyds accept that 
its contractors had a duty of care however to advise Ms N and Mrs N of the condition of the 
rest of the roof in 2016. The contractors noted the condition of the roof as being good. 
Nevertheless, on the balance of probabilities, I think that this was an erroneous or careless 
statement. I consider it unlikely that the roof will have deteriorated in the five years between 
2016 and 2021 to the extent visible in Ms N and Mrs Ns photographs. Its more likely that 
the roof was showing signs of failure and some bubbling in 2016.
Ms N and Mrs Ns contractors do not go so far as to say that the poor workmanship to the 
front of the roof by Lloyds contractors caused the damage to the whole roof. Its report 
nevertheless does imply that it may have contributed to some of the problems. It said that if 
the front section was defective due to a poor repair then rainwater could run beneath the roof 
covering and spread to all areas of the roof. Ive also noted however that the report 
highlights in strong terms that the complete roof area had been adhered incompetently to the 
original defective asphalt roof covering. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that, whereas 
the defective work carried out by Lloyds contractors may have accelerated the process of 
deterioration, the predominate cause of the damage was poor workmanship when the 
original asphalt roof was installed and/or when an overlay was installed at an unknown date. 
As Ms N and Mrs Ns home insurance policy doesnt cover damage caused by wear and tear 
or faulty workmanship, poor design and defective or unsuitable materials, I cant say that 
Lloyds has applied the terms and conditions of the policy in an unfair or unreasonable way 
by declining the claim arising from the events in 2021. 
Nevertheless, Ms N and Mrs N have clearly been caused distress and inconvenience due to 
Lloyds initial failure to recognise its role in addressing the matter. Following Ms N and Mrs 
Ns complaint, Lloyds hadnt recognised that its contractors work in 2016 had been poor and 
may have accelerated the underlying problems with the main roof. I consider that Lloyds 
should therefore have accepted responsibility for these issues much sooner as it had seen 
the photographic evidence which would have alerted it to the issue in April 2022. 
Having carefully considered the matter, I consider however that the compensation now 
offered by Lloyds does recognise the failure of the 2016 work, its failure to accept this point 
for 14 months and also the additional stress which its handling of the matter has caused to 
Ms N and Mrs N. The compensation figure is in line with that we recommend for more 
serious failures of this nature over an extended period of time. In the circumstances, I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms N 
and Mrs N. They wanted Lloyds to pay for all the works theyve had to carry out and to 
recognise the stress and inconvenience caused by the insurers, which was over and above 
the stress and inconvenience inevitably caused by necessary roof works and ingress of 
water. However, in the light of my conclusions as above, I consider that the offer by Lloyds to 
pay a total of £4,200 to Ms N and Mrs N for its role in the matter is a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and subject to payment of the sum of £4,200 I dont uphold the 
remainder of Ms N and Mrs Ns complaint and I dont require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman