DRN-3433904
The complaint
B, a limited company, is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt paid a higher premium 
rebate in respect of a group private insurance policy to represent the period when services it 
was able to provide were restricted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Its also unhappy 
with the increase in premium when the policy was renewed.
What happened
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were being used by the NHS for treatment. As a result, privately funded 
routine and non-urgent treatments were cancelled/delayed.
Throughout the time when medical facilities were being utilised by the NHS due to the 
pandemic  which affected BUPAs ability to provide a full range of services  B continued to 
pay their insurance premium. 
In April 2020, BUPA said it was committed to pass back any exceptional financial benefit it
ultimately received because of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  either by
way of a rebate or other appropriate means (BUPAs pledge). 
Towards the start of 2021, BUPA confirmed that it had undertaken a review as part of 
BUPAs pledge. And subsequently, in mid-2021, B was told a rebate equivalent to around 
one months premium would be paid. 
B says the rebate shouldve been higher considering the period of time services were 
temporarily affected. B is also unhappy that the cost of the policy increased when the policy 
renewed in 2021. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Bs complaint. B requested an Ombudsmans decision, so this 
complaint has been passed to me consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The premium rebate
At the outset, BUPA said if it transpired that there was an overall reduction in the claims it 
paid for customers, it would pass back any exceptional financial benefit it made to customers 
arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. I think BUPAs published course of action, in or around 
April 2020, was fair and reasonable. The effects of the pandemic were still ongoing at that 
time, and the impact was still uncertain. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there had been an overall reduction in the claims 
made on BUPAs private medical insurance policies. However, BUPA says non-urgent 
treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve still needed to have 
been delivered and funded by BUPA at a later date, once private facilities were no longer 
needed by the NHS to treat patients. I accept what it says about that.
B say it shouldve received a higher rebate.
 
I accept that BUPAs ability to provide the full range of services it would usually be able to 
offer customers was temporarily affected. And this wouldve also impacted the beneficiaries 
of Bs policy for several months from March 2020. I appreciate this wasnt Bs fault. However, 
Im also satisfied the ultimate impact the pandemic had on private facilities  which was 
unprecedented and unforeseen - was outside of BUPAs of control. 
From what I know Im also satisfied BUPA did put in place other benefits to support its 
customers at this time. That included, where possible, arranging remote consultations with 
appropriate medical professionals. So, I think the group policy B had in place was still 
capable of benefitting its beneficiaries - even if certain appointments and routine and non-
urgent treatment were being delayed. I can also see that a beneficiary named on Bs group 
policy had been able to utilise the policy during the policy year 2020/2021  before the onset 
of the pandemic and within the months after private facilities were being used for private 
treatment again.
The basis of the rebate payment is to represent any exceptional financial benefit made by 
BUPA because of the Covid-19 pandemic. And I think BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way its calculated the rebate. 
Particularly as BUPA commissioned a third party to assure that the way in which it shares 
out the rebate is fair and reasonable across eligible UK health insurance customers and it 
was satisfied with its intended course of action. That third party is independent of BUPA. Its 
reflected on BUPAs website:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly in
distributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
Im also conscious that BUPA has committed to carry out a final review in due course to
ensure it has met BUPAs pledge. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint given that Covid-19 is still prevalent, and its full impact hasnt been fully 
determined.
Premium increase
BUPA has been able to provide our service with details about the way in which the quote B 
received to renew the policy in 2021 (for the policy year 2021/2022) was calculated. The 
premium increased by around £200 compared with the previous policy year. 
Once the base rate of the scheme is calculated, the annual premium B paid for the
policy is influenced by factors particular to B. Its for BUPA to determine which factors it 
considers when pricing its medical insurance policies. And I dont think the factors its 
applied are out of line with the industry norm, or inherently unfair or unreasonable.Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the annual premium was partly influenced by
an increase in the base rate that year. And that this increase in base rate wouldve been the
same for all small medium enterprises that had opted for that type of group policy. I can also 
see that a discount was then applied.
I know B thinks the premium charged for the policy in respect of the policy year 2021/2022 
shouldve been lower. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable  and 
in line with the factors BUPA takes into account when pricing this type of policy. I dont think 
it automatically follows that because services had been temporarily affected in 2020, 
premiums charged in future policy years should be lower. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman