The complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold him an annuity. He 
says Phoenix should have made him aware of more suitable options taking into account his 
health conditions when he took out an annuity in 2011. 
What happened
Mr C took out a pension with Pearl Assurance (Pearl) in 1988. In late 2010, as he was 
approaching age 65, he received a wake up retirement benefit pack and began the process 
of drawing benefits from the plan. In April 2011, following receipt of another pack, Mr C 
completed the application form so that he could take the tax-free cash from his plan and then 
use the residual income to provide a joint life annuity with a guarantee. 
The annuity payment of £1,075.92 was set up in May 2011 on a single life level basis  as 
Phoenix said Mr C had indicated that he was single  with a five year guarantee. The 
payments were to be paid monthly in advance.
Mr C has said that in 2019, while in discussion with his financial adviser, he became aware 
of enhanced and impaired life annuities. He spoke with a Complaints Management Company 
(CMC) and decided to complain to Phoenix. In its complaint the CMC said Mr C hadnt been
made aware of the availability of enhanced or impaired life annuities and his medical history
hadnt been considered before he took out the annuity in 2011.
By this time Pearl had been taken over by Phoenix who was now responsible for Pearls 
previous advice, so it looked into the matter. For the sake of clarity Ill refer only to Phoenix 
throughout the rest of this decision. 
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had sent Mr C the relevant information and 
documentation to make him aware of all the options available  including enhanced and 
impaired life annuities. It said it had no record of being advised of any medical issues and 
set up the annuity - in a timely manner and in line with Mr Cs application.
Mr C didnt accept Phoenixs response so he brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought 
that Phoenix had made it clear to Mr C that it didnt offer enhanced or impaired life annuities 
and also that it had made Mr C aware of the possibility of using the open market option 
(OMO)  to see if he could get an annuity, based on his health conditions, with another 
provider.  He thought Phoenix had been clear in its communication and hadnt done anything 
wrong. 
The CMC disagreed making the following points:
DRN-1840115Despite Mr C not being married a joint life annuity was set up.
The information Mr C received from Phoenix in 2010 and 2011 set out five options 
which didnt refer to enhanced or impaired life annuities.
There were no warnings within the documentation around execution only 
transactions and the merits of seeking independent advice.
There werent any questions that asked Mr C about the condition of his health. 
 
The investigator said Phoenix didnt provide Mr C with any advice but was obliged to provide 
him with sufficient information to make an informed decision. He said Phoenix became 
aware that Mr C wasnt married and set up the annuity on a single life basis. He also said 
there were various references within the documentation which directed Mr C to seek 
information on different annuities as well as an OMO. This included the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) booklet which provided further information about annuities. 
So he thought Mr C had been made aware of his options before he chose his annuity and 
said Phoenix had acted fairly.
The CMC didnt agree. He said that either Mr C didnt read the information properly or that 
the information wasnt sufficiently clear or was buried somewhere. He thought the onus 
was on Phoenix to have made the information clearer to Mr C as it was likely Mr C 
would have taken the opportunity to get a higher level of income as a result of his ill health if 
hed been aware of that possibility. He wanted the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman so its been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I have 
some sympathy for Mr Cs position here as he clearly did have health conditions at the time 
which might have made him eligible for an enhanced or impaired life annuity. But I dont 
think Phoenix did anything wrong here, which isnt the outcome I know Mr C would have 
wanted  so Ill explain my reasons.
When it became the regulator in 2001 the FSA set out its requirements for firms within its 
principles for business. These were:
to conduct business with integrity
to pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly
to pay due regard to the information needs of clients, and communicate information 
to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
to manage conflicts of interest fairly. 
 
In 2002 the FSA introduced rules around OMOs within its conduct of business (COB) 
section and said firms should provide a wake up letter at least four months before a clients 
retirement date, and a reminder letter at least six weeks before. The COB said the letters 
should explain:
The OMO (including the fact that companies offer different annuity rates and different 
types of annuity, and that the scheme member or policyholder may get a better deal 
by shopping around).The financial advantages and disadvantages in general terms of making use of this 
option when compared with taking a pension annuity with that provider.
How the scheme member or policyholder may make use of the OMO should he 
decide to do so.
The advisability of taking professional advice. 
 
In addition, although it wasnt compulsory, COB 6.5.55 G said that a provider could comply 
with its obligations to explain the OMO by providing the FSA factsheet Your pension - its 
time to choose to the consumer.
There have been a number of updates to the regulations, including in 2007 confirmation of 
the rules around OMOs which said:
The FSAs your pension: its time to choose factsheet, together with a written 
summary of the retail clients OMO, which is sufficient for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether to exercise, or to decline to exercise, an 
OMO; or
A written statement that gives materially the same information.
 
So it still wasnt compulsory to send the factsheet, but if it wasn't sent the information 
needed to be provided as materially the same.
Ive looked at the information provided to Mr C by Phoenix to see whether it fulfilled its 
requirements under the COB, but also to see if it did act reasonably towards him over this 
matter.
In its pre-retirement pack letter dated 17 November 2010, Phoenix confirmed that Mr C had 
a number of retirement benefit options. These included buying a lifetime annuity through 
Phoenix, transferring to another provider for an alternative product and using his OMO to 
buy an annuity from another provider. The letter enclosed the FSA factsheet. 
The letter also made the following references:
The OMO gives you the choice of buying a lifetime provider from another provider.
Using the OMO may enable you to buy an annuity which gives a higher pension 
income.
The FSA has produced a range of booklets, in addition to the one we have 
enclosed, which may be of helpThese can be downloaded or ordered from the 
FSAs website
Deciding what to do about your pension is a very important decision, and we 
recommend that you speak to your financial adviser directly."
 
So, at this point, some six months before the pension was due to mature, I think Phoenix 
had satisfied the principles from the 2002 requirements and had made Mr C aware of the 
fact that alternative, higher annuities might be available from other providers. And that it 
would be advisable for Mr C to consider getting financial advice and/or the other brochures 
available from the regulator. 
Ive looked at the FSAs moneymadeclear booklet  this was an update on the original fact 
sheet which was now produced by the Money Advice Service  which Mr C would have been 
provided with as part of the overall information he was sent by Phoenix. On the second page reference is made to whether to go for one of the other pension 
income options-see page 9 and also You may be able to increase your pension income if 
you shop around-see page 8. 
I think this ought to have made Mr C aware that there were other options and directed him to 
those pages. Page 4 would also have helped Mr C as it confirmed that the pension income 
would be determined by a number of factors including your health or lifestyle (you may get a 
higher income if you are a smoker, have high cholesterol or are in poor health. 
But on page 7 this is more fully explained under the section enhanced and impaired life 
annuities which states that some companies offer impaired-life annuities that pay a higher 
than normal income if you have health problems that threaten to reduce your 
lifespanAlways check whether you may be eligible for either of these options.
Theres also a chart on page 15 which sets out what type of annuity would suit Mr C best 
and it asks do you have a history of poor healthyescheck if you are eligible for an 
impaired-life annuity.
So, given that Mr C would have been aware of his own health problems these statements 
ought to have alerted him to the fact that he might have been able to achieve a higher 
income based on his health conditions, and that he could explore that option by taking an 
OMO and checking his eligibility for an enhanced annuity with other providers. 
I know Mr C says this information should have been clearer and signposted that different 
types of annuity included those related to ill health and lifestyle. But I think its fair to say 
that an enhanced annuity would have been considered as a different type of annuity in 
respect of the regulations. I say that because the ABI statement of good practice on pension 
maturities from August 2001 contained the following requirement:
They should outline the range of options available on retirement, including the various types 
of annuity options available including impaired life annuities (a type of enhanced annuity for 
serious health conditions. So Im satisfied that statement confirmed that enhanced annuities 
were defined as being included as different types of annuity. Phoenix also enclosed an 
important information note which explained that it didnt provide all of the annuities referred 
to in the FSA brochure. In particular, we cannot offer, an enhanced or impaired life annuity. 
So it wouldnt have been possible for Mr C to take out such annuities through Phoenix and 
the only way he might have been able to look into his eligibility was by taking his pension 
fund, under an OMO, to another provider.
These same options were set out in the reminder letter of 5 April 2011 which contained 
some of the options that Mr C should consider as well as confirmation of the pension plan 
value and that his instruction regarding drawing his benefits was required by 3 May 2011. 
But importantly this pack included  and made numerous references to  a key features 
document. The document provided more detail about the annuity choices and the aims and 
commitments of such plans.
The key features document said what types of lifetime annuity may be available through the 
open market option. This went on to confirm that, amongst others, Impaired life annuity- 
This could provide a higher income than normal if you have a health problem that might 
shorten your lifespan. Enhanced annuity- This could provide a higher income than normal, 
depending on your lifestyle, for example. So Im satisfied that he was made aware of those 
options before he made his final choice. 
 When Mr C completed his application form Phoenixs responsibility was to set the annuity up 
on the basis of the information hed supplied. And based on the evidence Ive seen Phoenix 
did that. I know Mr C has said that he wasn't asked any questions about his health 
conditions and to ask such questions would have alerted Phoenix to his situation. But those 
questions were accounted for within the previous information asking Mr C to request further 
quotations if he thought he was eligible for an enhanced annuity. So I dont think Phoenix 
had any obligation to ask those types of questions again. 
I know Mr C thinks the disclosure documents he received weren't appropriate and that if hed 
been asked about his health he would have explored that option further.But Phoenix had 
explained to Mr C that it didn't provide enhanced or impaired life annuities, so I 
wouldn't have expected its own product material or application forms to include any 
questions that related to those options. 
Ultimately here I think Phoenix made it sufficiently clear in its documentation, including the 
regulators' booklet, that alternative annuities were available with other providers and that 
various lifestyle and health conditions might be factors involved in obtaining an annuity which 
paid a higher level of income. I think this information was provided to Mr C before he had to 
decide on his next course of action and I don't think Phoenix was obliged to ask further 
questions that might raise the possibility of enhanced or impaired life annuities, as it didn't 
offer those type of products - and had made Mr C aware of that.
So I don't think Phoenix has done anything wrong here and I don't think it needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given I don't uphold Mr C's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman