DRN-3516593
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc wont refund to him the payments that he made to a 
travel agency reservation service. 
What happened
Mr H agreed to pay £3,000 for a travel agency reservation service in May 2019 and 
payments totalling £3,000 were made to a holiday company using his Santander debit card. 
He sent a letter to Santander in September 2019 because hed not received the services that 
hed expected but Santander didnt receive that letter. He wrote to it again in February 2020 
and said that he thought that he was buying a holiday package and hoped to get some 
money back from a timeshare. 
Santander said that it had no record of Mr Hs letter from September 2019 but it said that the 
payments were made by debit card so didnt form part of a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It also said that it was outside of the timeframes in which a 
chargeback claim could be made. It accepted that Mr H had been caused inconvenience by 
its failure to acknowledge his February 2020 letter and it credited £50 to his account as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service and 
says that the holiday company has stopped trading.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr H 
had put the wrong address on his September 2019 letter to Santander meaning the letter 
was never received so Santander was only notified of his chargeback request some months 
later and it was then too late to make a chargeback claim. He couldnt say that Santander 
had done anything wrong so he said that he wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he sent 
the September 2019 letter to the section 75 Santander freepost address that hed used on 
many occasions and received replies. He says that he sent the letter, in good faith, to make 
Santander aware of what was happening at that time and that he feels that hes being 
treated as guilty before being proved innocent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Mr H had made payments to the holiday company using his debit card so he wasnt 
able to make a claim under section 75 which only applies to payments made using 
credit;
Mr H sent a letter to Santander in September 2019 that was addressed to Freepost 
Santander Section 75 team  Mr H says that hed used that address on many 
occasions and received replies but Santander says that it didnt receive that letter;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Santander had provided that address or asked its 
customers to contact it using that address and I dont consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect a letter that was sent to it using that address to be received  
and I consider it to be more likely than not that Santander didnt receive the letter that 
Mr H sent to it in September 2019;
even if it had received that letter, I dont consider that it was clear from the letter that 
Mr H was asking Santander to dispute the payment at that time;
Mr H contacted Santander again in February 2020 but by then the time period in 
which it could make a chargeback claim for the payments that Mr H had made to the 
holiday company had expired and Santander was no longer able to make a 
chargeback claim for those payments;
Santander accepted that Mr H had been caused inconvenience by its failure to 
acknowledge his February 2020 letter and I consider that it took longer than it should 
have done to respond to his letter  but it credited £50 to his account as a gesture of 
goodwill and I consider that to have been fair and reasonable in these circumstances 
and Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified;
Mr H has also provided correspondence with another bank about other disputed 
payments  but that correspondence doesnt relate to his complaint about Santander 
so Ive not considered it any further;
the holiday company has stopped trading but Santander only became aware that 
Mr H was disputing the payments that hed made to it in February 2020 and by then it 
was too late for it to make a chargeback claim for those payments so Im not 
persuaded that Santander has acted incorrectly in these circumstances; and
I sympathise with Mr H for the issues that hes had with the holiday company and the 
difficulties that hes described, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Santander to refund to him the payments that he made to the holiday 
company, to pay him any more compensation or to take any other action in response 
to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman