DRN-3028863
 
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr I says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Is 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because NatWest 
told us that the commission for Mr Is PPI was less than 50% of what he paid, NatWest didnt 
need to pay back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
Mr Is representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Is. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Is complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need to tell Mr I 
about the commission it received - so NatWest doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr I paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions 
below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr I didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because NatWest has provided most, if not all of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale. Looking at this I can see it is indicated in Mr Is mortgage 
application that he wanted to take out PPI; he also signed a separate direct debit to allow 
the premiums to be taken from his bank account; and he indicated his agreement to the 
cover the NatWest staff member recommended to him in a separate advice and 
recommendations document. Mr Is mortgage offer didnt say or imply he had to take out 
PPI as a condition of the borrowing  so taking everything into account I think Mr I chose 
to take out PPI and likely did so without undue pressure.
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr I. But I disagree. I say this because as I 
indicated above, NatWest has provided a copy of a document called: Advice and 
Recommendations Form. And looking at this its clear to me that Mr I was advised to 
take out PPI as part of a package of protection and mortgage related products. The 
adviser wrote: In order to ensure you can continue to pay your mortgage in the event of 
accident, sickness or redundancy I have recommended our Mortgage Repayment 
Protector Insurance... 
So given the evidence presented, I think, more likely than not, NatWest advised and 
recommended Mr I take out PPI. This means NatWest had to check that the PPI was 
right for him. But despite my finding, this doesnt affect the overall outcome of this 
complaint. This is because the evidence about Mr Is circumstances at the time, shows 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
For example Mr I was eligible for the cover and although he had existing means he still 
had a need for cover. I can see Mr I told us he was entitled to 12 months full sick pay. 
But the documentation from the time (in my view a more accurate reflection of Mr Is 
circumstances) records that Mr I was entitled to 12 weeks sick pay and nothing more. 
And he didnt have any savings he could use to make the repayments on his mortgage. 
There was nothing about Mr Is employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr I says he says he had two medical conditions 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for NatWest to have 
recommended it. I say this because the things Mr I told us about happened between 10 
and 20 years prior to the sale and given what Mr I has said, Im not persuaded he 
wouldve considered them to be existing medical conditions  at least nothing he 
wouldve likely thought would impact his ability to work in the future. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
While the paperwork from the time suggests Mr I should reasonably have understood the 
broad nature of the of the cover as well as the cost, I accept its possible the overall 
information NatWest gave Mr I about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The 
cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr I as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what 
he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. Mr I says he 
was financially stretched at the time  but Ive not seen anything else to suggest the 
policy wasnt affordable. So I think the policy would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr I would have declined the cover 
had NatWest done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr I would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.Mr Is representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Is representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Is individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Is particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr I.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr I paid. My reasons are set out 
below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Is representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr I should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: NatWest failed to tell Mr I about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr I wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission for Mr Is PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Is case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account: 
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mr I about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think NatWest treated Mr I unfairly. 
This means NatWest doesnt need to pay Mr I back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Is complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr I paid for the 
PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman