DRN-3392761
The complaint
Mr K makes a number of complaints about The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia.
What happened
Mr K says he was given incorrect information from Britannia about his account interest which 
could have resulted in him submitting incorrect information on his tax return. He says 
Britannia refused to send him an account closing statement and stopped sending him 
statements without providing him with notice. Mr K says Britannia refused to raise a 
complaint and refused to let him speak to a supervisor. He says he was prevented from 
raising his dis-satisfaction and Britannia ignored his complaint and failed to address the 
majority of his complaint points in its final response letter.
Britannia says it sent Mr K account statements when he asked for them but followed its 
terms and conditions about sending them. It says it didnt stop Mr K from complaining but 
asked him for his desired resolution. It also established that Mr K had the required 
information.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so we couldnt look at those 
parts of the complaint. The investigator thought Mr K did have the relevant statements and 
didnt think the account terms and conditions dealt specifically with closing statements.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and maintains that his complaint hasnt been properly 
addressed and Britannia ought to have called him to discuss his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require Britannia to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint, but I appreciate what Mr K says about how 
this complaint has been handled. I also confirm that I have read all of Mr Ks detailed 
responses to us but will focus on what I consider are the main complaint points.
It would I hope, be helpful if I explain to Mr K that complaint handling is not a regulated 
activity and so we do not normally consider complaints about such matters unless directly 
linked to a complaint we can consider. Im satisfied that Mr Ks main complaint here is about 
Britannias failure to raise a complaint and its complaint handling when he called it about the 
missing statement. I have listened to the telephone calls between the parties and Im 
satisfied Mr K was clearly concerned about the decision not to send statements and clearly 
wished a complaint raised. Im satisfied that Britannia wanted to know how Mr K wanted to 
resolve a complaint which he didnt answer. So, I accept there was an impasse, but Im 
satisfied there are two separate main complaint points here and that the complaint handling 
complaint is not sufficiently linked that I can comment on that part of the complaint.
 I accept that Britannia didnt deal with Mr Ks main complaint in its final response letter. But 
overall, Im satisfied that this is not something I can fairly comment on for the reasons I have 
explained. And we are not Britannias regulator and so its not our role to direct it about its 
complaint procedures such as for example calling customers before sending a final 
response. 
The other main part of Mr Ks complaint is about the potential under-reporting of his income 
for tax purposes. I appreciate Mr Ks point that he would have expected a statement to have 
been sent to him when he closed the account. But again, we are not Britannias regulator 
and its not our role to direct it about such matters. Im satisfied that Mr K did receive a 
statement when he asked for it and that there wasnt any incorrect tax information submitted. 
I can only consider what did happen and having listened to the call am satisfied Britannia 
agreed to send that statement. I dont need to comment on the account terms and conditions 
or on the amended notice Britannia sent its customers as Im satisfied that Mr K did receive 
the statement he asked for. I appreciate Mr K says the statements were sent after several 
complaints but Im satisfied Britannia agreed to send the statements on that first call  
between the parties and have not seen evidence of a refusal to send or a delay.
Overall, I appreciate Mr K will have unanswered questions here about Britannias decision to 
reduce the account statements it sends its customers and in what circumstances. I also 
appreciate that Mr K will remain disappointed that I cant fairly comment on his main 
complaint handling points. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman