DRN-3442869
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) reduced the benefits available under his
income protection policy and increased the premiums.
What happened
Mr C took out an income protection policy several years ago. The policy he took out renewed
annually. In October 2018 the underwriter of the policy decided to stop offering cover and
Lloyds stepped in to underwrite the policy. Mr C was sent a letter saying that the policy was
now a monthly rolling contract.
On 26 March 2020 Lloyds emailed Mr C to say that they were reducing the monthly benefit
available under the policy from £2500 to £2000. In May 2020 Mr C says he was made
redundant as a result of the impact of Covid-19 and then in September 2020 Lloyds
increased the premiums. So, hes paying more, for less cover.
Mr C complained to Lloyds  they offered Mr C £300 in compensation in recognition of how
Mr C became aware of the changes to his cover. Ultimately, they said under the policy terms
and conditions they were entitled to reduce the level of cover and increase the premiums.
Unhappy, Mr C complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She
thought that Lloyds had let Mr C know about the changes to the policy in 2018 and that they
were entitled to reduce the benefits and increase the premiums in line with the policy terms.
Mr C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.
In March 2022 I issued my provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. In summary, I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2018 Mr C entered into a new insurance contract. The relevant rules and industry
guidelines say that Mr C should be given enough information about the policy to 
decide if its right for him. The information should be clear, fair and not misleading.
The policy terms and conditions
Lloyds wrote to Mr C in 2018 via email saying that theyd attached important 
information about Mr Cs income protection policy. In the attached letter they said:
We are pleased to confirm that an alternative insurer has been arranged Please
dont worry; your cover will be continuous so you do not need to do anything in order
to continue enjoying the benefits of the policy. Your new policy will be monthly open
ended and not subject to an annual review. We will continue to carry out an annual
review recapping what cover you have in place. All other terms and conditions will
remain the same as the current policy.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says on page two:
When does cover start and end?
Cover commences on the date shown in your schedule and will continue each 
month on a rolling basis.
On pages 14 and 15 of the 2018 policy terms and conditions (reference number:
SIMMS120V/001) says:
We will review your policy each year on your policy anniversary date, which 
shall be the date 12 months from the start date of your policy and annually 
thereafter. Any changes that we wish to make will be implemented with effect 
from the next or nearest policy anniversary date. We may make changes to 
policy cover and/or terms and conditions as a result of the cost of providing 
this cover to you, therefore your premium may increase or decrease or 
remain unchanged as a result of the annual review. Please note that there is 
no limit to the size or nature of the changes.
You will be notified in writing at least a minimum of 21 days prior to your 
policy anniversary date each year, of any changes which we intend to make 
to your policy.
There is no other reference within these policy terms to the underwriter being able to
increase the premiums or reduce the policy benefits outside of the annual review 
period.
Mr C was notified of the changes to the policy benefit on 26 March 2020 via email, 
shortly after the UK went into a national lockdown due to the impact of Covid-19. The 
policy terms (reference SIMMS 082020) were updated to say:
Your policy is designed to adapt to your requirements and provide the cover 
you want over many years. But it is important to note that we can alter the 
terms of the policy, the cover options available and the premiums applicable if 
we feel it is appropriate. If we feel any such change is necessary we will 
advise you what is to change, why it is to change, and we will do this as 
quickly as possible but in any event at least 30 days before the change 
applies.
The information provided by Lloyds says that the policy has no longer been subject to 
an annual review since October 2018 when the scheme was taken over, as the 
scheme at that point became rolling monthly. They say that they continue to issue 
documents upon an annual anniversary in order to ensure that customers have the 
opportunity to review their cover and ensure that it is still suitable for their needs. This 
is what they define as an annual review.
I asked Lloyds to clarify whether SIMMS120V/001 was the correct version of the 
policy terms and if there had been any further updates to the policy terms between 
this version of the terms being released in 2018 and the update to the terms in March 
2020. They confirmed that this was the correct version of the terms and that there 
was no update to the policy terms until March 2020.
The change from annually renewable to monthly renewable in 2018Im intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint as Im not satisfied that he was given 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. And, I dont think this allowed 
him to make an informed decision about whether the policy was right for him. Ill 
explain why.
Mr C would have had to open the email attachment he was sent in 2018 to see 
what changes were being made to the policy. In the letter attached to the email he 
was given reassurances about the continuity of cover. The email referred to the 
policy being monthly open ended and not subject to an annual review. The IPID 
refers to the policy being a monthly rolling contract on page 2. The email didnt 
explain what monthly open-ended meant or what the impact of the change in the 
terms was in practice.
Had Mr C looked at the policy terms the only information about changes to the level 
of cover were set out in the section Ive referred to above. The terms set out 
information about the policy being annually reviewable. Pages 14 and 15 in the policy 
booklet refer to information about the annual review, but theres no information about 
the insurers ability to make policy changes at any time.
Based on the evidence I currently have I dont think that the full implications of 
changing to a monthly open-ended contract were made clear to Mr C. Even if Mr C 
had referred to the policy documentation I dont think it would have been clear that 
Lloyds could change the benefits of the policy outside of the annual review now that 
it was a rolling monthly contract.
I dont think the policy documents make clearly or transparently set out that the 
insurer could potentially make significant changes, such as increasing the price or 
reducing the benefits, outside of the annual review. I think this was a significant 
limitation of cover which ought to have been highlighted more clearly and 
prominently.
The changes to the policy terms in March 2020
Mr C was made redundant and claimed on the policy in August 2020. He told us 
that when he received the monthly benefit it was £500 less per month than he was 
expecting, because Lloyds had taken the decision to decrease the policy benefit 
from £2500 to £2000 on 26 March 2020. This was just a few days after the UK went 
into lockdown on 23 March 2020 in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. He says 
both he and his broker were unaware of this change and this shouldnt have been 
communicated by email. Lloyds say that the updated policy terms were clear that 
significant changes could be made to the policy.
I accept that Mr C was notified of the change in the terms in March 2020. And theres 
no requirement for this to be done via letter. Im satisfied it was sent to Mr C by email, 
to the contact details Lloyds held for him as Ive seen evidence to show that a mail 
shot email was sent to him.Has Lloyds treated Mr C fairly?
Based on the information I currently have I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr C 
fairly. I think that the central issue in this complaint stems back to the changes 
made to the policy in 2018 and the lack of clarity about the change from an annual 
policy to a monthly contract. As Ive outlined above although Lloyds did let Mr C 
know that the policy was monthly open-ended, I dont think the full consequences of 
this were clear.
In March 2020, Lloyds decided to drop the policy benefit due to the impact of Covid-
19 claims. Unfortunately, this only became apparent to him when he received a 
reduced benefit following a successful claim. Due to the wider circumstances Mr C 
was no longer in a position where he could obtain further cover.
So, I dont think the implications of the change in underwriting in 2018 were made 
clear to Mr C and the consequences of it only became clear to Mr C when he 
claimed in August 2020. I say that because it was only then that he realised the 
underwriter could change the contract on a monthly basis and had done so in March 
2020.
Even if Mr C had seen the email from March 2020, theres little he could have done 
differently at that point in time. The industry was already responding to the impact 
of Covid- 19 and policies were less widely available following the impact of Covid-
19 on the wider economy. So, its unlikely Mr C could have taken out a new policy 
at a similar cost in late March 2020 given the wider circumstances.
Does Lloyds need to do anything to put things right?
I think Lloyds could have made the impact of the switch to a monthly contract 
clearer to Mr C. Had they done so it seems likely to me that hed have chosen a 
policy which was annually renewable, rather than monthly. When hed first taken 
out the policy hed selected an annual policy. Mr C told us he was the sole 
earner for his family and that he took out the policy to ensure he protected his 
family in the event of unemployment.
Mr C should have been able to make an informed choice about the policy. I think if 
hed realised that the policy benefits could change at any time, hed have most 
likely sought alternative cover in October 2018. It seems unlikely to me that hed 
have chosen to continue with a policy where the benefits could change at relatively 
short notice given what hes said about his personal circumstances. I think its more 
likely he would have selected an annually renewable policy, with the same level of 
cover. Mr C was paying £75 per month for cover of up to £2500. So, it seems likely 
hed have been able to find another policy which met his needs, for a similar price.
I think being unable to make an informed choice has caused Mr C to lose out 
financially. If hed had an annual policy in place, his insurer wouldnt have been 
able to change the terms and reduce the benefit following the impact of Covid-19 in 
March 2020. That means that when Mr C was made redundant hed have had a 
policy in place which couldnt have been changed until November 2020. And, by 
that point hed have already registered a successful claim. So, hed have received 
£2500 per month, not £2000. And, his premiums also wouldnt have increased until 
November 2020 either.Putting things right
I understand that Mr C claimed on the policy and received a reduced benefit. Im 
intending to uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds to put things right by:
Paying Mr C £500 benefit for each month that he successfully claimed on the 
policy. Thats because I think its most likely Mr C would have received £2500 
per month benefit had he been able to make an informed choice about the level 
of cover offered in 2018.
Lloyds should pay Mr C 8% simple interest on the additional benefit payments 
from the date of the first payment of Mr Cs benefit until the date of settlement. 
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Paying Mr C the total of £300 compensation Lloyds originally offered Mr C if it 
hasnt already been paid to him.
I asked Mr and C and Lloyds to let me know if there was anything further they wanted to add 
which might make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Mr C accepted my 
provisional decision. Lloyds made a number of further comments. In summary they said: 
Mr C ought to have been reasonably aware of the changes to the monthly 
benefit in March 2020, which was prior to his claim  there was time for him to 
find additional or alternative cover if he wasnt happy with the level of cover
 
The information provided to Mr C in 2018 made it sufficiently clear that the 
policy was monthly open ended and not an annual one 
A policy review and a policy renewal are two different things. Even though 
Mr Cs policy changed in 2018 to being renewed monthly it remained subject 
to an annual review
There is insufficient evidence to say that Mr C didnt want a monthly 
renewable policy and so would have cancelled in 2018 and sought alternative 
annually renewable cover. An annually reviewable policy could have been 
potentially more expensive for the same level of cover. 
So, I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further comments and information provided by Lloyds but they 
havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. I say that 
because: I dont agree that the information provided to Mr C in 2018 did make it sufficiently 
clear what the impact of the policy being monthly open ended was. As I said in my 
provisional decision there was no reference within the terms to the underwriter being 
able to increase the premiums or reduce the policy benefits outside of the annual 
review period. I dont think the documents clearly or transparently explained that the 
insurer could make significant changes to the policy premiums and benefits at 
relatively short notice. I remain satisfied that this was a significant limitation in cover 
which ought to have been highlighted more clearly and prominently
Ive considered that the policy remained subject to an annual review. But this hasnt 
changed my thoughts about the outcome of the complaint. I dont think it was made 
adequately clear to Mr C what the impact of changing to a monthly rolling or open 
contract would mean. So, even though the policy was still annually reviewable its 
price and benefits could change at any time, outside of the annual review period  
Lloyds said that there isnt sufficient evidence Mr C would have sought an annual 
policy in 2018, rather than moving to a monthly policy. But, as I said in my provisional 
decision, Mr C had originally selected an annual policy and was the sole earner for 
his family. I think its most likely hed have wanted a policy which offered stability in 
terms of both price and benefit. So, in the specific circumstances of this case, I think 
it's unlikely Mr C would have chosen a policy where the benefits and price could 
change at relatively short notice. In my experience, such policies were, at that time, 
widely available for a similar price and it seems most likely Mr C would have chosen 
an annual policy given his circumstances at the relevant time. I think its therefore fair 
and reasonable to conclude Mr C would have opted for an annual policy which 
offered him a set benefit for a fixed price   
Mr C claimed on his policy around four months after the policy terms changed in 
March 2020. Lloyds says he therefore had time between March and August 2020 to 
source alternative cover if he wanted it. But, as I said in my provisional decision, 
theres little Mr C could have done differently at that point in time. The UK had just 
gone into lockdown on 23 March 2020 in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. And 
the industry was responding to the impact of Covid-19 on the wider economy. So, 
based on the evidence available to me, I think its unlikely Mr C would have been 
able to source alternative cover given the wider circumstances at that time.
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to put things right by:
Paying Mr C £500 benefit for each month that he successfully claimed on the 
policy. Thats because I think its most likely Mr C would have received £2500 
per month benefit had he been able to make an informed choice about the level 
of cover offered in 2018.
Lloyds should pay Mr C 8% simple interest on the additional benefit payments 
from the date of the first payment of Mr Cs benefit until the date of settlement. 
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Paying Mr C the total of £300 compensation Lloyds originally offered Mr C if it 
hasnt already been paid to him.My final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about Society of Lloyds and direct it to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman