DRN-2866994
The complaint
Miss N has complained about being mis-informed by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
that she was due two payments for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) 
when she was only due one. 
What happened
In a letter dated 2 December 2020 Miss N was told by RBS that she was due an additional 
payment of £2,730.69 for the mis-sale of PPI (reference number ending 6143) which she 
took with a loan (account number ending 6366). Miss N received the letter twice and phoned 
RBS to confirm that she was due two payments. She returned the acceptance forms. 
Miss N only received one payment on 11 December 2020 of £2,751.23 (which included 
interest further to the original offered amount). Miss N phoned RBS on several occasions to 
find out what had happened to the second payment. It became clear that Miss N was only 
due one payment. The second offer had been made in error. 
Miss N complained to RBS. It confirmed that only one payment was due, and which had 
already been paid. The offer was for two policies Miss N had, it included Miss Ns second 
policy (ending 1084). It apologised to Miss N.  
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
Miss N remained dissatisfied and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After consideration of the complaint, I will not be upholding it. I will explain why. 
Its not disputed that Miss N was incorrectly told that she would receive two identical 
payments for the mis-sale of PPI. And its clear that Miss N made contact with RBS to check 
she was due both of the payments and she has said she was told during these calls that she 
was due two payments. Miss N subsequently chased when the second payment wasnt 
received. 
I can appreciate Miss Ns frustration and disappointment. She did all that she could to 
confirm that two payments were due to her. It wasnt her fault that she had been 
misinformed.
But its clear that only one payment was due to Miss N and she isnt entitled to a second 
payment. So, nothing more is owed to her. I wouldnt expect RBS to make a payment when 
Miss N isnt due anything more. 
Ive considered how RBS handled the issue and Miss Ns complaint, and while inevitably it 
has caused some inconvenience to Miss N, RBS acknowledged its error and did apologise 
to Miss N. And I understand that it has sent Miss N £25.00 for the trouble and upset caused. 
I dont know if Miss N has accepted this offer.
But I think that offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that the offer of £25.00 for the trouble and upset caused to Miss N as a result 
of the misinformation she received is a fair way to resolve this complaint. I dont award 
anything more. It is now for Miss N to decide whether to accept the £25.00 offer, if she hasnt 
already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman