DRN-3343965
The complaint
Mr K and Mr N complain about AWP P&C SAs decline of their travel insurance curtailment 
claim and its service. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
On 31 October 2019 Mr K and Mr N started a 130 day trip abroad. For the first 90 days of 
the trip they were insured by an annual multi-trip policy with an insurer Ill refer to as B. For 
the last 40 days Mr K and Mr N bought a single trip policy insured by AWP. That policy cover 
started on 28 January 2020 to 9 March 2020 when the trip was due to end. They bought the  
AWP policy on-line in early October 2019, before the trip started.
In November 2019, while travelling, Mr K had a serious health issue. He had surgery and 
says he was medically advised not to continue the trip. Mr K and Mr N returned to the UK on 
21 January 2020. They say B paid their claim for medical costs and the costs for cutting 
short (curtailing) their holiday until 28 January 2020. They made a curtailment claim on the 
AWP policy for their lost holiday costs from 28 January 2020.
AWPs final response letter said it declined the claim as:
The health incident that caused the curtailment happened before its policy started so 
there was no cover under the policy.
The policy started from the date Mr K and Mr N chose the cover to start from and 
they paid the premium for the period 28 January 2020 to 9 March 2020.
When Mr K and Mr N bought the policy they selected the option for already 
travelling, which was a misrepresentation as at the time they hadnt started the trip. 
The policy said not answering the questions asked at the sale of the policy 
completely, accurately or honestly, may mean the policy is void, cancelled or it may 
refuse to pay a claim. 
Mr K and Mr N complained to us. They say AWP unfairly declined the claim as:
The health incident was after they bought the policy, in the middle of their trip and 
before they were due to come home. AWP hadnt shown where it says in the policy 
that it has no obligation to pay if an incident occurs after policy purchase but before 
the policy period started. 
The claim was only for costs during the AWP policy period of insurance. 
They took reasonable care not to make any misrepresentations when they bought 
the policy. At worst they may have made an error in good faith because they didnt 
understand the questions asked when the policy was sold. They had answered on 
the basis that they would be already travelling on the start date of AWPs policy. 
They thought they had been asked about travel dates when they bought the policy so 
AWP should have queried any discrepancy in dates before they sold the policy so it 
had mis-sold the policy. Even if they had given a wrong answer AWP hadnt 
explained how that affected their policy.
AWP delayed in dealing with their claim and complaint. It took seven weeks from 
when the claim was made to decline the claim. They complained in March 2020 and 
at the time of complaining to us hadnt received a substantive response from AWP 
(its final response letter was sent after Mr K and Mr N complained to us).
They want AWP to pay the claim without asking for any more documentation and to 
pay them compensation for their distress and inconvenience caused by AWPs 
delays, their time spent chasing AWP and the claim decline. 
Our investigator said AWP fairly declined the claim as at the time of the incident which 
caused the claim there was no cover under AWPs policy.
Mr K and Mr N disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They emphasised they only 
claimed costs from when AWPs policy started. They believed AWP couldnt sell a policy in 
October 2019 then refuse to pay a claim because the claim incident that caused the claim 
happened between the policy purchase date and the date cover started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about whether AWP, the insurer, fairly and reasonably declined Mr K 
and Mr Ns claim and about its service. Mr K and Mr N are concerned that the policy was 
mis-sold but AWP isnt responsible for the sale of the policy, the policy was sold by a 
separate business to AWP. If Mr K and Mr N wish to pursue a mis-sale complaint they will 
need to first complain to the business responsible and if agreement cant be reached 
between the parties they can make a separate complaint to us on that issue.
Ive seen reference in the correspondence between Mr K, Mr N and our investigator about 
whether Mr K was required to disclose to AWP that he had a heart attack. I dont think AWP 
declined the claim on the basis that it thought Mr K hadnt disclosed that information. AWP 
said if it had been able to consider the claim it would have required further medical 
information from Mr K to review the claim against the policy terms relating to his pre-existing 
medical history (which would have been a reasonable request). There are policy 
requirements about informing AWP of a change in health after buying the policy. But I dont 
need to consider whether AWP could have declined the claim on the basis of a pre-existing 
condition or change of health non-disclosure because I think AWP acted fairly in declining 
the claim for one of the reasons it gave. Ill explain why.
Although Mr K and Mr N bought the policy in October 2019, before they went on the trip, the 
policy didnt start until 28 January 2020. AWP says Mr K and Mr N gave that as the policy 
start date when they bought the policy, which Mr K and Mr N dont dispute. I appreciate 
theyve raised concerns about the clarity of the questions they were asked during the sale of 
the policy but those would be issues to consider against the business that sold the policy in a 
mis-sale complaint.
Mr Ks serious health incident that caused the curtailment claim happened in 
November 2019 and that was before the AWP policy started on 28 January 2020. So, even 
though Mr K and Mr N bought the policy before the health incident, and even though they 
were only claiming for costs lost after the 28 January 2020, I think AWP fairly declined the 
claim because there was no AWP policy cover in force when the event causing the claim 
happened.
The policy says that for a single trip:Cover under Section D  Cancellation starts from the date stated on your booking 
invoice or validation certificate (as applicable) and ends when you leave your 
residence or place of business to commence travel
Cover under all other sections of the policy starts when you leave your normal 
residence or place of business to commence their trip
Section D of the policy is for cancellation and curtailment and the only section of the policy 
the claim could potentially be considered under. Mr K and Mr Ns claim is for curtailment not 
trip cancellation. Theres no claim for cancellation because theyd already left on their trip. 
Overall, I think its reasonable to conclude that their overall trip was cut short. So I think its 
fair for AWP to consider the trip as cut short as opposed to cancelled. 
Mr K and Mr N had left their place of residence to start their trip a few months before the 
AWP policy came into force. And the health issues which gave rise to the claim also started 
before the policy came into force because the policy start date was the 28 January 2020. 
Mr K and Mr N returned home before that date, on 21 January 2020. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AWP to conclude that they had no cover under the policy because the 
policy cover hadnt started yet. And I dont think there are any fair and reasonable grounds 
upon which I can direct AWP to cover the claim.
Taking all of the above into account, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr K and Mr N, for the 
above reasons I think AWP fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
AWP also referred to Mr K and Mr N as having incorrectly bought an already travelling 
policy and Ive seen Mr K and Mr Ns comments about how they believe that may have 
happened because the sale process wasnt clear. I dont think AWP has clearly explained 
what difference the already travelling policy made to Mr K and Mr Ns claim assessment. 
But even if I considered that it made no difference the situation is still that there was no AWP 
policy cover in force for the event that caused the claim so AWP can still fairly decline the 
claim.
As to AWPs handing of the claim and complaint, Mr K and Mr N say it took seven weeks to 
assess and give a detailed response for the claim decline, which I dont think is wholly 
unreasonable. There was an unreasonable delay from March to December 2020 in AWP 
providing a full response to Mr K and Mr Ns complaint. Mr K and Mr N say they spent 
18 hours chasing AWP for a response. I dont doubt that was frustrating for them but they 
could have made a complaint to us eight weeks after they complained to AWP even if they 
hadnt received its response so I dont think the lack of response disadvantaged them in 
complaining to us. I dont generally award compensation for time a consumer spends on a 
complaint unless there are specific reasons to do so, which I dont think there are here. 
I make no compensation award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman