DRN-1671457
 
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Miss B. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. Barclays sold Miss B the 
policy when she applied for the card. Barclays says it thinks the sale took place in a branch, 
though Miss B says she thought it was by postal application. I dont need to resolve that 
point, as it wouldnt make a difference to my decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss B has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
I think Barclays made Miss B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. She says she 
wouldnt have agreed to PPI as she was planning on joining the armed forces, which 
has excellent benefits. However, she joined the armed forces several months later, 
and I wouldnt be sure how much shed have known about those benefits, or have felt 
certain she would join when the PPI started. But, more importantly, I have seen the 
application form which she signed  and this clearly sets out the PPI as a choice 
which you make by ticking the yes and no box. On her form the yes box has 
been ticked. So the evidence points to her agreeing to PPI at the time. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss B, which means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sale process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable 
for her particular needs. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay the credit card 
bill if she was off sick or made redundant  and from what shes told us she was 
entitled to limited benefits from her employment for this. Shes said she had £250 to 
pay her credit card for six months  but shed probably have needed that money to 
make up for her lost earnings in covering her other personal and household 
expenses. And the PPI could have kept paying for longer than that anyway. So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I 
cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I dont think fuller information about costs and benefits would have affected 
whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful. And it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.
 
In its letter to Miss B, Barclays seemed to say that she also had PPI which started in 2008. 
But it looks like Barclays had an error in their letter. It said This policy started on 19 August 
1996 and 1 January 2008. But Im pretty sure it meant to say the PPI ended on 1 January 
2008. Its normal in their decision letters to say when the PPI ended, because that can affect 
the question of whether PPI commission should be paid back.  
But I dont have evidence there was actually another PPI policy starting in 2008. (Barclays 
has also since told us that in fact its looked at its records again and now thinks the PPI 
probably ended in 2004  but that doesnt make any difference to my decision about this 
complaint.)
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back the 
cost of the PPI to Miss B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman