DRN-2412893
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his let property insurer Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE 
because it declined a claim he made when he had to replace an electric boiler.
What happened
Mr S lets a property which is managed for him by agents. Neighbours reported an issue with 
the overflow and the agent arranged for a plumber to attend. The issue was to do with a 
failed valve allowing water to pass through from the boiler to the overflow when it shouldnt. 
A part was ordered but there was a delay due to the time of year. Further problems then 
occurred and ultimately the boiler was found to be damaged and in need of replacement.
Mr S contacted Liberty. He said the plumber had caused the damage to the boiler by not 
isolating the boiler when he capped off the water supply as a temporary fix whilst the part 
was on order. He felt Liberty should be liable under his accidental damage cover on the 
policy for what he felt was the plumbers accidental mistake. Liberty made enquiries with the 
managing agent, the plumber and the replacing contractor. Upon considering the responses 
received Liberty declined the claim as it felt the boiler had needed replacing because it was 
old and/or because an electrical fault had caused the damage. It indicated it would 
re-consider if Mr S could provide a cause of damage report showing what had caused the 
boiler to fail. 
Mr S was unhappy. He complained to us.
Our investigator felt Liberty had assessed the evidence available to it in light of the policy 
terms. He thought the terms had been applied fairly so he didnt uphold the complaint.
 
Mr S was disappointed. He sent further evidence which he felt showed the plumber had 
been at fault and that the boiler had been damaged as a result. Our investigator considered 
the information and explained to Mr S this didnt change his view on the complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S believes he knows what happened here. And Ive considered the 
evidence he provided which he thinks shows the plumber was at fault, causing the damage. 
But none of this gives me cause to think Liberty has acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr Ss policy offers cover for accidental damage. It defines this as:
physical damage caused suddenly, unexpectedly and not through wear and tear, 
breakdown or malfunction.
It is for Mr S to show that, on the face of it, he has a loss which meets this definition. If he 
can show that then Liberty will have to settle his claim unless it can show the definition has 
not been met or that a policy exclusion applies to defeat the claim. 
Mr S says the plumber was at fault for not isolating the boiler. And that the failure to isolate 
the boiler caused the problems which led to the need for its replacement. Mr Ss evidence in 
this respect is, in essence, the chain of events which unfurled, some photos of the system 
taken during the initial plumbing repairs and some emails with the managing agent which 
reflect what the managing agent says the plumber told them. There is an invoice from the 
replacing contractors but this didnt detail what had cause the problem which led to the need 
for replacement. 
Liberty, having seen this evidence, wasnt convinced it was liable for the loss. It noted that 
the agent had said:
 
.your system is a very, very old system. This gives good justification as to what has 
occurred.
Liberty felt this was indicative of damage having occurred due to wear and tear. But it made 
some further enquiries. The original plumber didnt reply to it, but the replacing contractor 
did. They said either the element or board had caused an internal fire in the boiler but they 
couldnt say why. They later told Liberty the fire had resulted from an electrical fault. 
Given the evidence Liberty saw and the cover offered by the policy, I think it was fair for it to 
decline the claim. I cant fairly say it should take Mr Ss word as to what he believes must 
clearly have happened over the expert view it obtained from the contractor that replaced the 
boiler. On balance I dont think Mr S has shown he has a loss which is likely covered by the 
policy. Furthermore, in contrast, I think Liberty has shown that the loss suffered most likely 
falls outside the definition of cover.  Im not going to require it to review its position.
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman