DRN-4033795
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain QBE UK Limited (QBE) wrongly declined cover under their site 
insurance policy for their legal costs of opposing a Town and Village Green application.
Where I refer to QBE, I include the policy administrators, loss adjusters and claims handlers 
they appoint to act on their behalf. 
What happened
In around 2015 Mrs R and Mr R acquired a property that they began to remodel and extend. 
They took out site insurance with QBE. The policy included cover for loss of or damage to 
the contract works. 
In around May 2020 Mrs R and Mr R claimed on the policy for the legal costs of opposing an 
application a local council was making for land adjacent to their property to be designated a 
village green (the TVG application). They were concerned that if the application succeeded, 
services to their property would be cut off and the value of their property would be affected.
QBE declined the claim. They said an event insured under the policy hadnt happened since 
there was no loss or damage to the contract works and the policy didnt provide legal 
expenses insurance. But they said they would consider a claim once the outcome of the 
TVG application process was known. 
Mrs R and Mr R disagreed. They said QBE had been wrong to say physical damage was 
required before the policy would respond; arguably theyd incurred a loss  a drop in the 
value of their property - as soon as the council had made the TVG application; and the 
clearest way of assessing their loss was to equate it to the legal costs they were incurring in 
opposing the TVG application. Since they had a duty to mitigate their loss, and QBE had 
agreed it was reasonable for them to incur legal costs in defending their position, QBE 
should meet those costs.
QBE didnt accept Mrs R and Mr Rs arguments and rejected their complaint. So, Mrs R and 
Mr R brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. To put things right they wanted QBE to 
meet their claim for the legal costs theyd paid and those they were committed to pay going 
forward and pay compensation for the stress theyd suffered.
Our investigator didnt think QBE had been wrong to decline the claim. She said Mrs R and 
Mr Rs claim didnt fall within the contract works section of the policy since that section 
applied to the building works, not the loss of value to the property itself. Since they didnt 
agree, Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs R and Mr Rs strength of feeling about their claim. I appreciate theyve 
spent a considerable sum on legal fees. And I can understand the situations been stressful 
for them. I can understand too why they feel taking legal action to oppose the TVG 
application is appropriate given the potential impact on the value of their property if it 
succeeds. But, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think their legal costs are covered under 
their site policy with QBE. Since my reasons are different to those of our investigator, Im 
issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to comment before I give my 
final decision.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules, we expect insurers to consider claims fairly 
and promptly, and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ive considered Mrs R and Mr Rs 
complaint against that background. The starting point is the policy wording.
The policy provides cover when certain events happen. The relevant event here, under 
which QBE rightly considered Mrs R and Mr Rs claim, was set out in sub-section 1 of the 
Construction Works All risks section of the policy.
Cover was provided under the policy for Loss of or Damage to the Contract Works 
occurring:
a) whilst in transit (other than by sea or air) in Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the 
Channel Islands or the Isle of Man to or from the Contract Site
b) whilst on the Contract Site or adjacent thereto until the expiry of the Period of 
Insurance.
Contract Works were defined as The permanent and temporary works executed in 
performance of the contract together with any property forming or which has formed part of 
any existing structure prior to the commencement of the Contract on or adjacent to the 
Contract Site for the purpose of executing the Contract Works as specifically named and 
identified in the Insurance Certificate. Contract Works is also deemed to include the 
materials for use in connection with the Contract.
Contract Site was defined as The immediate area, plot or locate of land on which the 
Contract Works are being undertaken and for which the Policyholder is responsible for.
Loss or Damage was defined as Loss or Damage (Lost or Damaged or Loss of or 
Damage to) means loss or destruction of or damage to the Contract Works.
Ive noted the points Mrs R and Mr R have raised about the structures and land falling within 
the definition of contract works. I agree the existing structure was insured under the policy  
thats clear from the policy schedule. 
I understand Mr R considers the adjacent land which is subject to the TVG application forms 
part of the contract works. And I note Mrs R and Mr R say loss includes loss of value. I dont 
need to decide about those issues to come to a decision here. The main issue is that for 
cover to apply, there needs to have been loss or destruction of or damage to the contract 
works, however thats defined. I dont think there has been. Its clear that the legal costs of 
taking action to prevent or minimise any loss that might occur at some time in the future 
arent covered by the definition of contract works. The cover only extends to loss or damage 
to the contract works themselves.
Even if loss of value is covered under the policy, I dont agree with Mrs R and Mr R that its 
reasonable to determine loss of value by looking at the legal costs theyve incurred. Loss of 
value and legal costs could be vastly different from one another. Loss of value can only fairly 
be determined by valuation evidence from a suitably qualified surveyor. Im not aware Mrs R and Mr R have any evidence that establishes theyve suffered a loss of 
value. QBE say theyll consider whether the policy provides cover for any loss of value that 
might exist once the outcome of the TVG application is known. I think thats fair in the 
circumstances.
The parties have discussed extension 7 to the contract works cover. Im not aware Mrs R 
and Mr R are required to reinstate any loss or damage to the contract works in order to 
comply with the regulations the extension mentions. So, I dont think its relevant here. 
Mrs R and Mr R have noted their policy requires them to take steps to mitigate any loss they 
might incur. I understand the parties interested in the TVG application were encouraged to 
seek legal advice and be represented at the public enquiry and Mrs G and Mr G felt they had 
no option but to instruct lawyers. They think QBE should meet their legal costs on grounds 
that opposing the TVG application amounts to mitigating their loss.
The Claims Procedures set out that Mrs R and Mr R must:
take action to minimise the Loss or Damage and to avoid interruption or 
interference with the Contract Works and to prevent further Damage at his own 
expense
Its common for insurance policies to require customers to take reasonable steps to mitigate 
their losses at their own expense, as here. We dont consider that to be unreasonable. Even 
if seeking legal representation could be described as mitigation, Mrs R and Mr R would be 
responsible for the costs. They arent covered under the policy for the reasons Ive 
explained. The policy is clear about that. It wouldnt be fair for me to require QBE to pay 
them.
I note Mrs R and Mr R were unhappy with the time QBE took to respond to the claim. And 
they understood initially QBE were declining the claim on grounds there hadnt been any 
physical damage, when Mrs R and Mr R felt loss of value was covered. 
I think QBE could have explained their reason for declining the claim more clearly initially. 
But they clarified things in their response to the complaint. I dont think the time QBE took to 
consider the claim was unreasonable given its complexity. And Mr Rs own timeline suggests 
he was providing additional information for QBE to consider as the claim progressed. So, I 
dont think there are grounds to ask QBE to pay compensation.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs R and Mr R will be disappointed, I dont 
intend to uphold their complaint.
Developments
QBE said they had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs R and Mr R have made some detailed comments, which Ive carefully considered. 
Overall, I dont think theyve made any substantively new points. But Ill summarise the key 
points here and comment on them under the heading What Ive decided  and why 
below. I may not mention everything theyve said. No discourtesy is intended by that. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ive taken everything Mrs R and 
Mr R have said into account in coming to my final decision. Mrs R and Mr R say:
1. Ive failed to give a legal reason as to why the claim doesnt fall within the policy. 
2. Loss is covered irrespective of whether any physical damage has occurred since the policy refers to loss or damage. There is all risks cover on the contract works and 
the contract works includes services running across the adjacent  disputed - land. 
And since the cover is all risks it extends to a loss caused by the TVG application.
3. The definition of loss is not clearly defined in the policy. Legal definitions theyve 
found say loss can be temporary or permanent; loss includes not getting what one 
might get; and loss can relate to intangible property as well as physical property. 
a. The loss of the right to services to the property would amount to loss of 
intangible property.
b. Reduction in the value of the property would amount to not getting what one 
might get.
c. Temporary loss would include the legal costs of taking action to prevent or 
minimise any loss that might occur in the future  so its wrong to say those 
costs arent covered.
d. Since temporary loss is included in the legal definition of loss, Mrs R and     
Mr R dont have to prove what loss they might suffer in the future.
4. Assessing loss where there has been physical damage is usually done by looking at 
cost of repair. When looking at intangible property its reasonable to use a similar 
approach and look at the legal costs, rather than actual loss of value, and legal costs 
will be less.
5. Mrs R and Mr R have never been asked to provide evidence of loss of value. Its self-
evident the value of the property which might lose its services would be less than one 
that is not at risk. QBE didnt disagree with Mrs R and Mr R that the reduction in the 
value of the property was likely to be high if the TVG application succeeded. And 
they agreed they had no option but to fight the TVG application. For QBE to say there 
has been no effect on the value of the property contradicts that position. If valuation 
evidence is now required, QBE should provide it.
6. The policy codifies Mrs R and Mr Rs legal duty to mitigate. They had to take steps to 
appoint lawyers in any event due to time constraints and couldnt wait for QBE to 
decide their claim. QBE agreed it was reasonable for them to do so. QBE is 
responsible for meeting the costs of mitigation as it is part of the insured loss. 
7. Mrs R and Mr R dispute the time QBE took to deal with the claim was reasonable. It 
took them three months to decline the claim even though they knew the facts from 
the outset. They wrongly declined the claim on grounds there was no physical 
damage to the property, wrongly explained the definition of contract works and they 
refused to answer questions about their reasons for declining the claim. 
8. The service QBE provided wasnt acceptable, nor was the claim complex. It involves 
four questions to which the answer is yes  is there an event affecting the property, is 
there coverage for this event, is the affected part of the property covered by the 
insurance and is the effect on the property covered by the insurance? 
9. Mrs R and Mr R disagree its fair for QBE to say they will consider whether the policy 
provides cover for loss of value once the outcome of the TVG application is known.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate the time Mrs R and Mr R have spent in making their submissions. I dont 
underestimate the impact the TVG application has had on them or their strength of feeling 
about the way in which their claim has been handled. But, as Ill explain, Im not persuaded 
to change my mind about the outcome of their complaint.
In coming to my decision, I take into account, amongst other things, the law, relevant 
regulations and industry best practice. My decision is based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable to both parties in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
I havent made any findings about whether the definition of loss in the policy includes loss of 
value, whether the adjacent land falls within the definition of contract works or what all risks 
cover includes. I dont need to decide that to come to a decision. Its clear that for the policy 
to respond there must be loss of  however thats defined - or damage to the contract works. 
Theres no evidence of that at present. The legal costs incurred in opposing the TVG 
application dont amount to loss of or damage to the contract works.
I note the points Mrs R and Mr R have raised about the legal definitions relating to loss. They 
think its obvious that there must be at least a temporary loss of value to the property now  
because of the doubt as to whether the property will lose the right to access services over 
the disputed area of land. They say its obvious too that if the TVG application succeeds, 
they wont be able to access services in the future so there will be a permanent loss of value 
then. 
As things stand, QBE havent made a decision about whether loss includes loss of value. I 
dont think thats unreasonable since no loss or damage of any sort has been established. 
Even if loss of value is covered, and there was evidence it had happened, I wouldnt expect 
QBE to pay out until the outcome of the TVG application is known and any loss has 
crystalised. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect QBE to make a payment only to have to 
recover it later if Mrs R and Mr R successfully oppose the TVG application and suffer no 
loss. If loss of value did occur, broadly Id expect QBE to decide promptly whether Mrs R and 
Mr Rs claim was covered and if so to consider their claim fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
I note Mrs R and Mr Rs point that its reasonable to assess their loss as being the legal 
costs theyve incurred since it would be similar to paying the costs of repair where theres 
been physical damage to property. I explained why I didnt think that was the right approach 
in my provisional decision and I havent changed my mind about that. 
Mrs R and Mr R say QBE shared their view there would be a high loss of value if the TVG 
application succeeded and agreed it was reasonable for them to appoint lawyers to oppose 
the application. From what Ive seen QBE said they understood Mrs R and Mr Rs reasons 
for appointing lawyers. But Im not persuaded they did more than that or gave them reason 
to believe theyd cover the costs. Even if appointing solicitors to oppose the TVG application 
could be seen as reasonable mitigation, the policy doesnt cover mitigation costs. Its not part 
of the insured losses as Mrs R and Mr R believe. The policy makes clear any mitigation is at 
Mrs R and Mr Rs own expense, as Ive noted. And the general condition Mrs R and Mr R 
have pointed to that requires them to take all reasonable steps to protect the property 
insured doesnt say QBE will meet the costs of doing so, even if reasonable steps included 
taking legal action.
Bearing everything in mind, Im not persuaded that the legal costs Mrs R and Mr R have 
incurred or will incur in relation to the TVG application are covered under the policy.
Ive reviewed the timeline of events and the service QBE provided in light of Mrs R and      
Mr Rs further comments. I note QBE had let Mrs R and Mr R know a couple of years previously that they werent in a position to consider a claim until the outcome of the TVG 
application was known. They said theyd investigate the claim in line with policy cover if TVG 
status was granted and the services were decommissioned. Although Mrs R and Mr R felt 
their situation had changed in 2022 given the stage the TVG application had reached, QBE 
didnt agree. 
I can understand Mrs R and Mr R felt under pressure since the TVG application process was 
progressing and they needed to take a decision on the appointment of lawyers and incurring 
legal costs. I can see they chased for a response on their claim. 
QBE confirmed there was no cover in early August, although Mr R feels they didnt provide 
clear reasons why. They gave written reasons around a week later for declining the claim 
when they said there needed to be physical damage for cover to apply. I appreciate Mrs R 
and Mr R disagreed with that and complained. But QBE didnt change their decision. And 
their response to the complaint in early September explained the claim had been declined 
since no loss or damage to the contract works had occurred. 
Whilst I can appreciate Mrs R and Mr R would have liked a quicker decision on cover given 
the timescales for the TVG application process, I dont think their situation had changed 
materially since theyd notified a possible claim a couple of years previously  the outcome 
of the TVG application still wasnt known. Although QBE could have communicated with     
Mr R more quickly and more clearly, theyd declined the claim by mid-August after a site visit 
and considering information and documents Mr R had provided. And theyd responded to the 
complaint by early September. Although Mrs R and Mr R disagreed with the outcome and 
wanted QBE to engage in discussing the policy wording, overall, I dont think the time taken 
or the service provided was unreasonable. 
I understand Mrs R and Mr R will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold their complaint
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman