DRN-1579478
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains about how National Westminster Bank (NatWest) handled 
a bank transfer.  
V is represented by its director, Ms D.
What happened
V banks with NatWest. As part of its business banking service, NatWest offers account 
holders access to a system called Bankline. Its an automated self-service portal, providing 
customers with the means to administer their own business accounts; make payments 
domestically or internationally, as well as other features. 
In August 2019 V had arranged a deal to buy some currency. To complete the deal, V 
needed to transfer a large amount of money  over €500,000  to a currency trader. V 
attempted the transfer using Bankline, but it didnt go through. V didnt realise this until the 
currency trader telephoned the following day to explain it hadnt received the funds. 
Once V realised there might be an issue it checked the Bankline system. V says a message 
was displayed which read checking funds, so it didnt take any further action. V thought this 
might be a holding message of some kind and the transfer would go through. But the 
currency trader called V again, near the end of the same day, to say it still hadnt received 
the funds. V has said the transfer needed to take place urgently, because the terms of the 
currency deal  such as the agreed exchange rate  could only last until close of business 
that day.
Ms D called Bankline to find out what was happening. She says she was told the transfer 
had been rejected, but she wasnt given a reason why. Ms D then went back to double-
check the transfer information on the Bankline system. She found that a clerical error had 
been made. Vs accountant had input a figure that was slightly higher than Vs available 
account balance. The difference was €18. By the time this was discovered, though, close of 
business had passed and the currency deal was lost. 
Ms D complained to NatWest. She said that when she called, Bankline hadnt provided a 
reason why the transfer was rejected. Ms D also said no-one at Bankline had pro-actively 
contacted V to let it know the transfer hadnt gone through. She said her NatWest business 
relationship manager had left some time ago, but she hadnt been told of a replacement. So 
she had no-one to contact but Bankline. Ms D said the failed transfer had cost V over £6,000 
because it had to negotiate a new currency trade deal, and the new deal carried a lower 
exchange rate. Ms D wanted the difference reimbursed to Vs account. 
NatWest sent its final response to V on 21 August 2019. It explained Bankline was an 
automated system, and that the customer has full control of the service. It said thats why no-
one from the bank had called V to let it know there might be a problem. NatWest did 
acknowledge that the service provided by Bankline couldve been better when Ms D called, 
in so much as the reason why the transfer hadnt been made wasnt discussed. And it 
recognised Ms D may have been mis-informed about her relationship manager, so it offered 
to arrange a time to discuss Vs business banking options further.
Ms D remained unhappy, so she brought Vs complaint to our service. An investigator here 
considered the complaint, but he thought NatWest had acted fairly. He said the Bankline 
service is automated, and its terms are clear in that it cant help customers with balances or 
account statements. And while he thought Bankline couldve been better in directing Ms D 
elsewhere within NatWest for help, by the time Ms D had telephoned, it was too late. So he 
didnt think it wouldve made a difference overall.
Ms D disagreed. She said shed never been told that Bankline wasnt controlled or 
monitored, and that it seemed V was essentially on its own as an online customer. Ms D 
thought NatWest had displayed a lack of responsibility or failsafe checking, particularly given 
the amount V was trying to transfer. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats not in dispute here is that the error occurred on Vs part, so Ive focussed my 
decision on:
whether NatWest acted reasonably when it received Vs instructions;
whether NatWest shouldve done more to ensure Vs transfer was processed; and
whether NatWest acted reasonably when it was made aware there might be a 
problem.
Ive looked at the Bankline system to see how it works. NatWest has provided me with a 
demonstration model so I can see the steps V wouldve taken. To make transfers the 
process is entirely automated, with the customer responsible for inputting the details of who 
to pay and how much. 
I also asked NatWest if Bankline has any type of facility that might act like an overdraft. 
Using Vs circumstances as an example, I wanted to know if  because the discrepancy was 
so small  there was any way the transfer couldve been processed regardless; and then the 
difference claimed back by NatWest after completion. But NatWest confirmed theres no 
such facility. 
V has said it didnt know Bankline was unmanned. It thinks NatWest shouldve intervened to 
make sure the transfer was processed, or that there should be a margin for error, given its 
mistake was so small. So Ive looked at Banklines terms and conditions to see if NatWest 
has any responsibility to check transfers or intervene with customer instructions. 
Theres nothing specific about NatWest intervening or amending a customers instructions 
outside of their involvement. But the terms do say that NatWest will not be liable for acting 
on an Instruction if it is ambiguous, incomplete or inaccurate. I think thats clear in explaining theres no liability on NatWest to complete an instruction if its inaccurate, as was 
the case with Vs attempted transfer. 
Ive also checked for any other liability statements within the terms and conditions. And Ive 
seen that NatWest explains it isnt liable for any loss arising from a cause beyond the 
Banks control or arising from any delay or failure to carry out an instruction, unless caused 
by the Banks negligence or wilful default. 
Vs complaint suggests it feels theres been some negligence on NatWests part. But, based 
on what Ive set out above, Im satisfied the customer  V  is ultimately responsible for 
ensuring the information it provides to the Bankline system is correct. The terms set out no 
guarantee that instructions will be completed as intended if a customer has got something 
wrong. Essentially, NatWest takes the details its been given on face value. And it seems 
thats what it reasonably did here. So Im not persuaded there was negligence on the part of 
the bank, and Ive seen nothing to make me think NatWest acted unreasonably by taking Vs 
instructions in good faith or not intervening. 
Ive considered if NatWest shouldve done more when V made it aware there was a problem. 
V accessed Bankline and confirmed the details of the transfer for its currency deal on 
14 August 2019 at 06.30. The next day, on 15 August 2019 around 12 midday, the currency 
trader telephoned V to say it hadnt received the funds. In her statement to this service Ms D 
said that both her and her accountant checked the Bankline system at the time, but they 
decided to take no further action. So Ive thought about why V didnt take any further action, 
and whether it did enough to protect itself from any potential risk or losses. 
Given there werent enough available funds when Vs accountant confirmed the details of the 
transfer, I asked NatWest if any error  or warning  message wouldve been displayed. 
NatWest hasnt been able to confirm if a message wouldve been displayed immediately, but 
it has said the Bankline system provides a payment summary. In the payment summary, 
NatWest has said the Bankline system wouldve displayed a message which read held 
awaiting funds. In her testimony Ms D has said that, when she checked the payment after 
speaking to the currency trader, she saw a message which read checking funds. I asked 
NatWest for clarification on which message V wouldve seen, and it seems that its possible 
for both messages to be displayed. Unfortunately, I dont have a screenshot of exactly what 
happened at the time.
In any event, I think regardless of which message was displayed  either that the funds were 
being checked or being held  more than 24 hours after V had instructed the transfer, both 
indicate something could be wrong. But, despite the time that had passed; V receiving a 
phone call from the currency trader to say it hadnt received the funds and V seeing a 
message which indicated the transfer hadnt completed yet, it chose to take no action. And I 
think that by doing nothing at this point in time, V left itself open to the risk of something 
going wrong. 
The currency trader called V again at around 4pm the same day to say the funds still hadnt 
arrived. This time, following the latest conversation with the currency trader, V did contact 
NatWest. Ms D says she telephoned a helpline and was told the transfer has been rejected, 
but she wasnt given a reason why. 
I havent been provided with a call recording. But either way, NatWest hasnt disputed that 
the service it provided here couldve been better. Indeed, Im sure the lack of an explanation 
or further assistance would have been very unhelpful for Ms D. So, from what Ive seen, I dont think NatWest did enough to help Ms D understand why the transfer hadnt gone 
through. 
Having said that, Im not persuaded things wouldve gone differently even if NatWest had 
provided a comprehensive explanation. I say this because Ive reviewed a copy of Vs trade 
deal, and it seems the currency trader wanted V to send the money to international bank 
details. NatWest has shown me that, generally, these transfers can take one to two working 
days to process. It is possible for international transfers to be sent urgently on the same day 
that an instruction is received but, for that to happen, NatWest must receive the customers 
instruction by 1.30pm. 
Vs instruction was sent before that time  it was sent to NatWest the previous day  but the 
details werent correct. From what Ive set out above, I think there were enough signs for V 
to be aware that there would be a problem with the instruction and do something about it in 
time. But despite signs that something wasnt right when the instruction was given, V didnt 
take any action until around 4pm the following day, which was the day the transfer needed to 
happen. This was too late for it to go through by close of business. So even if NatWest had 
provided better support when Ms D called, Im satisfied Vs position wouldnt have been any 
different.
In conclusion, V thinks NatWest should have ensured the transfer was processed and it 
would like its losses reimbursed as a result. But I dont see things the same way. I think V 
was ultimately responsible for not providing the correct details to ensure the transaction 
could be completed. And, further, Im not persuaded it did enough to mitigate any potential 
losses despite being aware there was a problem. 
Im satisfied Banklines terms are clear that NatWest wont act on an instruction if its 
inaccurate. Further, Im also satisfied that NatWest isnt responsible for any losses arising 
from a failure to carry out a transaction unless it caused the problem. Which, in this case, I 
dont think it did. So it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman