DRN-1370676
The complaint
Ms E complains about The Co-operative Bank Plc applied excessive charges to her account 
when she became overdrawn and had items unpaid.  
What happened
Ms E held an account with Co-op. Over the past six years she has incurred overdraft 
charges and unpaid item fees on a regular basis, which became unaffordable. She said 
shes been unemployed for the past six years with an inconsistent income. And she said 
these charges contributed to financial hardship  impeding her ability to pay for basic 
essentials and causing her to fall behind with household bills.
Ms E said shes now entered into a Debt Management Plan with a debt charity. This has led 
to interest and charges being frozen. But Ms E says the bank account charges and fees she 
incurred reduced her disposable income.
In November 2018 Ms E complained to Co-op that the overdraft charges and unpaid item 
fees which had been applied to her account were excessive. She asked it to refund those 
charges and she said shed paid around £1350 in total. But Co-op didnt uphold her 
complaint because it said the charges and fees were in line with the terms of conditions of 
her bank account and were applied fairly. It also said Ms E hadnt made it aware she was 
experiencing financial hardship until she complained. It did, however, refund some fees and 
charges in 2018 and 2019 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Being dissatisfied with Co-ops response to her complaint Ms E referred it to our service. Our 
investigator assessed the evidence Ms E and Co-op had provided but didnt uphold this 
complaint. Overall, they didnt think Co-op had done anything wrong. They said it was 
entitled to apply the charges it had done and thought it had acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions. But Ms E disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms E experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint and I appreciate the reason why shes brought it to our service.
My role is to assess whether I think Co-op made a mistake, or treated Ms E unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
Co-op have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Ms E will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
The crux of this complaint is whether Co-op acted unfairly in applying overdraft charges and 
unpaid item fees to her account.  An overdraft is money thats borrowed from the bank. So, its reasonable and usual for the 
bank to charge a fee where a facility like this is used. Our service also considers it 
reasonable for a bank to charge a fee where items are unpaid. I realise that Ms E thinks that 
the charges and fees here were excessive. But as our investigator explained there was a 
Supreme Court ruling in 2009 which means the amount of charges cant be challenged on 
the grounds theyre too high. 
Like our investigator, I can consider whether the charges and fees that were applied to Ms 
Es account were applied in line with the terms and conditions of her account. So Ill address 
whether I think they were.
Ive considered what the terms and conditions of Ms Es account say about overdraft 
charges and unpaid item fees. Having done so, Im satisfied that the information Co-op 
provided in its terms and conditions was clear, transparent and explained in plain and 
intelligible language. The terms clearly outline the fees Co-op can charge for the use of an 
overdraft facility and when items are unpaid. It follows that I think Ms E ought to have known 
the circumstances in which she would have incurred a fee.
Having seen the statements of Ms Es account from 2012 until 2018 I can see that when her 
account went overdrawn or when items were unpaid she incurred fees and charges. Theres 
no evidence that those charges and fees were applied outside of the accounts terms and 
conditions. So, I cant fairly conclude Co-op did anything wrong in applying fees and charges 
to Ms Es account.
Ms E said the fees and charges she incurred added to her financial burden. But, while I 
sympathise with her, theres no evidence she made Co-op aware that she was experiencing 
financial difficulties before she complained in November 2018. And I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that Co-op should have been aware that she was experiencing 
financial hardship from the way in which she was conducting her account.  
Had Co-op been aware that Ms E was in financial difficulties, best practice suggests it 
should have treated her positively and sympathetically. But this wouldnt necessarily have 
meant charges would have been waived or refunded. 
I can see Co-op refunded a number of charges that were applied to Ms Es account in 2018 
and 2019. Id add that this was a gesture of goodwill on Co-ops part. It wasnt obliged to 
refund those fees and its not something that I wouldve told it to do. I say this because I 
havent seen any evidence that these charges werent applied in line with Ms Es account 
terms. In refunding a proportion of Ms Es charges, Im satisfied Co-op acted fairly towards 
her. 
I can see that each time an unpaid item fee or overdraft fee was incurred Mrs E was sent a 
letter confirming a charge would apply and the reason why. In correspondence sent to Ms E 
Co-op invited her to contact it in the event that she was experiencing financial difficulties. It 
also signposted her to debt charities. I think this all demonstrates Co-op was trying to 
engage with Ms E to help her manage her finances. So, Im not persuaded it could have 
done any more to assist Ms E here. 
Ive considered all the points Ms E has made and I appreciate the reasons why she brought 
this complaint to our service. But I think Co-op has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. So Im not going to ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman