DRN-2648756
The complaint
Ms Ks complaint is about the service shes received from Ascent Performance Group 
Limited in relation to repayment of an equity loan on her property. Ms K says that Ascent 
applied undue pressure on her in relation to repayment of the loan, and harassed her by 
threatening to take legal action, as well as making an excessive number of telephone calls. 
Ms K says this caused her significant distress.
The complaint has been brought on Ms Ks behalf by her aunt, Ms L.
 
What happened
The events leading to the complaint being brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
have been set out in detail in the correspondence between the parties and our investigator. I 
will only give brief details. This is because our decisions are published, and so I must take 
care not to include any information that might lead to Ms K being identified. But I confirm Ive 
considered everything in detail and am fully aware of the background to the complaint.
Briefly, what happened is this:  In October 2010 Ms K bought a property with the help of a 
ten-year secured loan from the developer, in return for 15% of the market value of the 
property. The loan was due to end in October 2020. It is administered on behalf of the 
developer by Ascent.
Unbeknownst to Ascent, Ms K had become unwell in 2019 after losing her job. She was later 
able to find a new job but her health is fragile.
Ascent had sent annual statements explaining that the loan was due to be repaid in October 
2020. In August 2020 Ascent contacted Ms K to remind her that the payment was due in two 
months time. This would require a valuation to be carried out in order that Ascent could 
determine how much Ms K would be required to repay  which was 15% of the current value 
of the property.
I can see that in August 2020 Ms K emailed the developer to see if settlement of the loan 
could be postponed due to financial difficulties. 
Ms K had several telephone conversations with Ascent during August and September 2020. 
Some of the calls were initiated by Ms K, rather than Ascent. I note there were also times 
when Ascent tried to contact Ms K, without success.
I am very sorry to learn that on 24 September 2020 Ms K made an attempt on her life. 
Fortunately, this was unsuccessful. It wasnt until 28 September 2020 that Ascent was 
informed of Ms Ks vulnerability.
 
I also note that at on 29 September 2020 Ms Ks independent financial adviser provided a 
letter confirming that Ms Ks current circumstances meant that it wasnt possible to arrange 
any borrowing to re-mortgage or raise additional funds to pay off the equity loan.
Ascent confirmed that Ms Ks address had been removed from its system, and that future 
correspondence would be sent to Ms L. Ascent intended to cease contact with Ms K and 
deal only with Ms L after that, but on 22 October 2020 a letter was sent to Ms K in error. This 
letter confirmed that Ms Ks valuation had been accepted, and was valid for six months.
Ms L, on Ms Ks behalf, complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked at the complaint. He didnt think the number of calls between Ms K and Ascent had 
been excessive or that Ascent had harassed Ms K. The investigator also didnt think 
Ascents correspondence had been threatening, although he did accept that, given Ms Ks 
vulnerability, thats how she perceived it. 
The investigator asked Ascent to pay £300 compensation for sending the letter to Ms K in 
October 2020, which it agreed to do. But Ms L doesnt think this goes far enough. She would 
like Ascent to reduce the amount owing on the loan by 50%.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, Ive left out a lot of the detail in the complaint, to preserve Ms Ks 
anonymity. But Ive read everything all the parties have provided and listened to the call 
recordings.
I am very sorry that these events have taken such a toll on Ms Ks health. I have no doubt 
this has been a very difficult time for her. But I have to put aside my natural empathy for 
Ms K and consider the complaint impartially, on the basis of the evidence.
I will begin by clarifying that Ascent has no power to reduce the amount of the loan, or to 
postpone repayment of it, either in full or in part; only the lender can do this, and in this case 
the loan was made through the developer. I note Ms K contacted the developer about 
postponing repayment of the loan due to financial difficulty. Ms L says Ms K was directed to 
do by Ascent. I think that is likely, as that was the correct course of action; it wasnt a 
decision Ascent was able to make.
Ascents role is limited to administering the loan on behalf of the lender  including collection 
of the payment due in line with the terms of the contract at the end of the ten-year term. That 
is the extent of Ascents involvement in the contract, and it is in that context that the 
complaint arose, as the loan reached its payment date.
Ive listened to the phone recordings, and Im not persuaded Ascent was rude, threatening or 
harassing to Ms K. I also dont think Ascent made excessive calls to Ms K, or that the level of 
its contact was inappropriate, given that the loan was due to be repaid imminently and it 
needed to ascertain Ms Ks proposals. I also note that several calls were made by Ms K to 
Ascent.
As I said above, it wasnt until 28 September 2020 that Ascent was aware of Ms Ks 
vulnerability. I think if Ascent had known this sooner, it would have limited its contact to 
dealing with a representative of Ms Ks choosing, which is what happened later.Im also satisfied that the correspondence from Ascent was factual, although I can 
understand why Ms K was upset by it, particularly in relation to the reminder that 
repossession action was an option if the loan wasnt repaid. In this regard, it is a regulatory 
requirement that the consequences of non-payment are explained on all correspondence 
relating to a secured loan. So although I accept this was upsetting for Ms K, it was 
information Ascent was required to include on its letters.
Its unfortunate that, after it should have removed Ms Ks address from its system, a letter 
was sent to her in October 2020. This was more likely than not due to human error, but I can 
see that it caused Ms K some upset, even though the letter itself was not contentious. I am 
glad that Ascent has agreed to pay compensation for this, and I think £300 is fair and 
reasonable for the error that was made.
Going forward, I have not been told what the current position is on the equity loan, or 
whether it remains outstanding. But I would remind Ascent of its obligation to treat Ms K 
fairly and sympathetically, particularly given her vulnerabilities, concerning how and when it 
communicates with her. 
In relation to delaying or reducing repayment of the loan, Ms K (or Ms L on her behalf) will 
need to liaise with the developer about this, as this decision is out of Ascents hands. I hope 
this can be a three-way conversation involving Ascent as well, so that Ascent is fully aware 
of any negotiations that take place.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms K was hoping for, and I am truly sorry if my decision adds to 
her distress. But as I said at the outset, I dont have any power to order the developer to 
reduce the loan by 50% or delay payment of it; all I can do is look at how Ascent has dealt 
with the administration of the loan. 
In all the circumstances, other than the mistake over the letter in October 2020, Im not 
persuaded Ascent has done anything wrong. I appreciate Ms Ks and Ms Ls perceptions of 
the situation are very different, but as an independent party looking at the evidence 
impartially, I dont think Ascent has acted unfairly.
If Ms K is in financial difficulty, she might find it helpful to speak to one of the free debt 
advisory services, such as Citizens Advice, Shelter or StepChange. We can provide contact 
details for those agencies if Ms K would like us to. Above all, I would urge Ms K (through 
Ms L) to continue to liaise with the developer and with Ascent in relation to repayment of the 
loan.
  
Putting things right
For the trouble and upset caused by writing to Ms K in October 2020, Ascent must pay 
compensation of £300.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Ascent Performance 
Group Limited must pay Ms K £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I make no 
other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman