DRN-4024273
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) irresponsibly lent to her
What happened
Miss S opened a shopping account with Studio in June 2019. Her account had an initial limit 
of £200 which was increased in November 2019 to £600.
 
Miss S says that Studio shouldnt have lent to her. She says that she was in financial 
difficulty and Studio should have done more to find out if the credit was affordable for her. 
Studio says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss S  and when it increased 
her credit limit.
 
Our investigator thought that Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. Miss S was subject to a 
debt relief order (DRO) when she took out the credit which indicates that she wasnt able to 
sustainably repay her existing credit. Our investigator said that Studio should have done 
more extensive checks before it lent to Miss S and that if it had done so, it would have 
realised Miss S couldnt afford any more borrowing.
  
Our investigator said that Studio should pay back interest and charges it made as a result of 
the credit that was unfairly extended to Miss S. 
Miss S agreed with this outcome. Studio didnt agree. It said that Miss S met its lending 
criteria and none of her account activity indicated any financial pressure or material financial 
difficulty.
As Studio didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ss complaint.
Studio needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include Miss 
Ss income, her existing borrowing, the frequency of borrowing and the length of time Miss S 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
Studio has provided a copy of the results of the checks it did at the time it opened Miss Ss 
account. The data showed that Miss S didnt have any credit accounts in arrears and that 
there was no negative publicly recorded information, such as bankruptcy or an IVA. The 
checks were unable to verify Miss Ss declared income of £24,000 but Studio used Office of 
National Statistics data to model Miss Ss disposable income and concluded that she would 
have had £703 a month. It knew of her DRO and also that she was high risk under other 
measures it used. It says it weighed negative information against the positive information it 
held.
However, I dont think the way Studio weighed the information was fair. Studio was aware of 
Miss Ss active DRO. It says such arrangements were not taken into account by its scoring 
model at the time but were included as a risk of financial difficulties indicator. The criteria for 
a DRO are such that Miss S would have had to have been in serious financial difficulty to be 
eligible for one. DROs are a solution to deal with personal debts someone cannot pay and 
involves the person ceasing to make any payments towards existing debts listed in the DRO. 
To obtain a DRO a person must have not enough income to meet their debt repayments 
and, generally, to have less than £75 a month in disposable income.
Clearly such an arrangement would not be approved if Miss S had genuinely had £703 a 
month in disposable income as Studio suggests its checks revealed. 
The presence of the DRO alone should have been sufficient information for Studio to 
consider it ought to do more to check Miss Ss ability to make her repayments sustainably. I 
do not consider that the positive information Studio had about Miss Ss circumstances, 
including her utilisation of other credit, was capable of outweighing the knowledge of the 
DRO.
I think Studio ought to have verified information about Miss Ss income and expenditure. Had 
it done so, I think it would have concluded that Miss S could not afford any more borrowing, 
even if (as is the case here) the repayments each month would be relatively low.  I say this 
because Miss S has provided copies of her bank statements in the months leading up to the 
initial borrowing. Of course, she wasnt paying anything towards her existing debts because 
she was subject to the DRO. But she was still struggling to make payments for essential 
expenditure such as utility and insurance payments, with eleven direct debit payments 
returned unpaid in the four month period before the application for the Studio account.
 
I think Studio ought to have done more to establish that Miss S could repay the borrowing 
sustainably. I dont think it conducted reasonable and proportionate checks and I dont think 
Miss S was able to make sustainable repayments on any additional credit at the time of her 
application.
 
II think Miss S lost out as a result  by paying interest and charges on the lending. So, I think 
Studio acted unfairly when it lent to Miss S. 
In relation to Miss Ss subsequent credit limit increase, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Miss Ss financial circumstances improved significantly in the intervening period. Indeed, 
Miss S remained subject to the DPO until May 2022  much longer that such an order 
usually exists.  I am not satisfied that the credit limit increase was affordable or the 
repayments sustainable either.  Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Studio to refund any interest and charges incurred by Miss 
S as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. Therefore, Studio should rework the 
account and:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Miss S has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Studio should reduce the capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Studio should ensure 
that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if step 2 leads 
to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to Miss S and 8% 
simple interest * should be added to the surplus. 
4. Studio should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file as a 
result of the interest and charges.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Studio Retail Limited acted unfairly when it extended credit to Miss S. To put this right 
I direct Studio Limited to pay compensation as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman