The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Hastings Insurance Services Limited 'Hastings' didn't cancel her car 
insurance policy at renewal.
What happened
Miss P Called Hastings to cancel her car insurance policy on the day of her renewal. She 
went through telephone security, but the call handler didn't think she was the policy holder, 
as the policy holder was female. Miss P was questioned until she insisted she was the 
female policy holder, and the call handler finally agreed that security had been completed 
and that she was speaking with the policy holder. The call handler processed Miss P's 
request to cancel the policy. Miss P was also told no money would be taken from her bank 
account for the renewal as the policy was now cancelled. 
But the money did debit her account and left her short of money. Miss P called Hastings 
again to question why the policy wasn't cancelled and the money taken. The call handler 
said the policy was cancelled and the money that was taken was being refunded to her but it 
would take a few days. Miss P wasn't happy with this, so she raised a complaint with 
Hastings who agreed that she wasn't given the correct advice when she first cancelled the 
policy and that the call could have been handled better. They offered her £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused. Miss P didn't think this was enough to reflect the stress caused by their 
mistake so asked us for help.
Our investigator looked into what had happened, and considered the impact this had on Miss 
P. She agreed what Hastings had offered was a fair and reasonable in the circumstances
and didn't think they should offer to pay Miss P anymore. Miss P still thought Hastings
should pay more considering the way she was treated. So the complaint has come to me for
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've listened to the two calls Miss P had with Hastings and taken these into consideration 
alongside what Miss P says happened. On the first call Miss P had with Hastings, the call 
handler did take a while to accept that the person she was talking to was the policy holder, 
Miss P, who was a female. I can appreciate this must have been uncomfortable for Miss P, 
and I agree it could have been handled more sensitively.  Miss P was assured the policy was 
cancelled and I've seen a copy of the letter that was sent to Miss P on the same day to 
confirm this had been done. So the call handler did what she said she was going to do. 
DRN-1313229However, Miss P was given incorrect information by the call handler who said no money 
would be taken for the renewal as it had been cancelled.
The reason the money was taken, even though the policy was cancelled, is because the 
cancellation was on the same day as the renewal, meaning the renewal payment had 
already been processed, as Miss P's policy was set up to auto-renew, like most car 
insurance polices.
When Miss P called Hastings again to complain, the call handler explained the policy was 
cancelled by the last call handler she spoke to, and the reason for the payment being taken 
was because of the auto renewal. An apology was given and Miss P was told the money 
was already in the process of being returned to her. Assurance was given that any bank 
charges incurred as a result of the money being taken would be refunded to her upon proof. 
I've thought about what Miss P says about the way this made her feel - in particular the 
way the first call was handled. I dont think the adviser handled the security questions 
professionally, or as she should have done. I can understand why Miss P found it very 
upsetting that it was suggested to her that she couldn'tt be the policy holder because the 
policy holder was female  with the implication being that she wasnt. Clearly that 
shouldn't have happened. Miss P had answered, correctly, all the security questions 
Hastings needed and that should have been the end of it. But on the other hand, I need to 
bear in mind this was a one-off incident. It wasnt repeated on the other call. And the adviser 
on the first call did accept Miss P was who she said she was and went on to deal with her 
query. The overall conversation took less than five minutes. So taking everything into 
account, I think the offer Hastings has made is fair in the circumstances of this case.  
My final decision
I know this wasn't the decision Miss P was hoping for. But For the reasons explained above, 
I won't be upholding Miss P's complaint and asking Hastings to pay more compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Helen Giles
Ombudsman