DRN-3257307
The complaint
Mr H complains that Family Equity Plan Limited (Family) will not allow him to transfer an 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another provider without transferring all of his ISAs he 
has with them.
What happened
Mr H says that on 15 April 2020, he transferred a third party ISA to a Family one year fixed 
rate ISA. On 21 April 2020, he transferred a separate third party ISA to a Family two year 
fixed rate ISA. When Mr Hs one year fixed rate ISA ended on 15 April 2021, he received a 
message informing him of different options he could take, such as opening a new fixed rate 
or easy access ISA within his Online ISA, withdraw part or all of his money or to transfer to 
another provider.
Mr H says he decided in April 2021, to transfer the one year fixed rate ISA that had just 
matured to a third party stocks and shares ISA. But in May 2021, he received a message 
informing him that the transfer couldnt be completed as the ISA was in a fixed term which 
ends in April 2022, a transfer before this date would incur a breakage charge of £138.03. As 
the transfer form didnt instruct the transfer to proceed immediately when charges apply, 
then Mr H would need to inform them how he wished to continue.
Mr H says he pointed out he didnt want the two year fixed rate ISA to be transferred, 
however, they refused to process the transfer. Mr H says that it wasnt made clear to him 
that fixing an ISA for two years would impact on what he could do when the fixed rate on the 
one year ISA ended. Mr H made a complaint to Family. He said he missed out on taking 
advantage of stock market gains as the transfer wasnt processed.
Family did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said that the key information pack explained 
that customers will only have one online ISA, but they can open multiple separate products 
within the ISA. Family said that the section regarding transferring an ISA to another provider 
explains that partial transfers arent allowed and it explains that he wouldnt be able to 
transfer out individual products in his account. Family also said that they explain how the ISA 
works on the front page of the online ISA website. Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said that Mr H agreed to opening the 
account, he also confirmed hed read the key information and the summary box was 
unavoidable before clicking to apply for the account. As such she said he was made 
reasonably aware of the terms and conditions of the account. So, she couldnt agree that Mr 
H had been provided within incorrect information or that Family havent made it clear how 
their Online ISA works. She also said that the terms of the Online ISA also make it clear that 
partial withdrawals are not permitted, and that early withdrawals will incur a breakage fee.
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he asked if Family were acting fairly, then why did they allow him to open a one 
year product knowing that it would not, under their interpretation of the terms, be able to 
operate as a one-year product. He also asked if a customer had a one year product and a 
two year product, what would be expected from a fair organisation to do at the end of the 
first year.
Mr H also said if Family considers his ISAs to be a single account that cant be accessed 
until two years have elapsed then they should pay the two year interest rate on the full 
balance if they are acting fairly. He said how can it be fair to hold his money after maturity, 
paying a derisory interest rate when it cant be accessed until a further year has elapsed and 
he asked how Family consider the significance of a maturity date of 15 April 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to both Family and this service and Ive considered and
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
First of all, I must be clear to Mr H, that it is not within the remit of this service to tell a 
business how they should word their terms and conditions  this would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, so he may wish to contact the regulator if he 
feels the wording used should be different. What I will be concentrating on here though is 
whether Family treated him fairly in how they have applied their terms and conditions.
Ive looked at the journey Mr H would have taken to open his Online ISA. Family have 
confirmed to me that their website hasnt changed since he applied for his account. The 
Family ISA webpage shows the different types of ISAs that are available. The first bullet 
point of the Online ISA says choose as many variable or fixed rate rates as you like. At this 
stage the webpage doesnt appear to show that the Online ISA is one account which allows 
several ISAs as part of that one account.
So I then clicked on find out more. On this page there is a section which says important 
information and directly underneath this it says how it works. So Ive had a look to see if 
this section clearly explains that the Online ISA is one account which can hold other ISAs 
but you cant make partial transfers. 
This section starts with our Online ISA gives you the ability to take advantage of fixed rates 
and variable rates all within one account.  So I am persuaded that its clear here that the 
Online ISA is one account which can hold different ISAs in it. 
On the same page there is a cancellation section which says you cannot cancel individual 
products that youve selected to open within your Online ISA. It also says that partial 
transfers are not permitted, and you will not be able to transfer out individual products held 
within your Online ISA. 
So I cant agree with Mr H that the language is unclear, as the webpage clearly states that 
you would not be able to transfer out individual products held within the Online ISA. The 
same section also says if you decide to transfer your Online ISA and you have a product 
which is within a fixed term, youll incur a Breakage Charge. If the interest youve earned 
doesnt cover this, youll get back less than what you put in. This is what happened when Mr 
H was going to transfer one of his individual ISAs out of his Online ISA, that there was going 
to be a breakage charge of £138.03 as he still had a two year fixed rate ISA which hadnt 
matured yet. So Im persuaded that the language used was clear and Mr H was made aware of these factors when he decided to apply for the account and that Family treated him fairly 
in line with the terms and conditions. 
Before the apply button at the end of the page, there is a definition section which goes into 
more detail of certain definitions, of which breakage charge is one of them. Again this 
mentions this includes transferring or closing an Online ISA while a product is in a fixed term.
In addition, there is a frequently answered questions section. The question which relates to 
Mr H here asks Can I transfer my Online ISA to another provider? Im satisfied the text 
used here is clear: if you have paid in to multiple products within your Online ISA you 
cannot transfer out a single product. Youll have to close your whole Online ISA and transfer 
out the total value. This may mean that youll incur Breakage Charges, dependent on the 
products you hold within your Online ISA. So as Mr H still had a fixed rate ISA within his 
Online ISA, this is why he would incur the breakage charge, as the whole of the Online ISA 
would need to be transferred as Family are clear they dont allow partial transfers.
The next part of the user journey would involve clicking start application. Here a summary 
box pops up and says in bold text please read through the information in the summary box 
below before applying for an Online ISA account. There is another section here about 
withdrawals and money movements and again it states partial transfers are not permitted, 
and you will not be able to transfer individual products held in your Online ISA. You can, 
however, transfer your Online ISA in full to another ISA at any time. If you transfer your 
Online ISA and you have money in a Fixed Rate product which is in its fixed term, a 
breakage charge will be applied to that product.
Once you click on start application on the same page as the summary box, the very first 
section has in large letters before you begin. This section instructs the user to read the key 
information pack before you begin the application to be satisfied this account is right for 
you. This link opens up the terms and conditions and Im satisfied the wording is clear and 
in line with the excerpts Ive already included above of the other screens prior to this screen. 
Before you click on the next button of the application form it asks you to read the key 
information pack and there is a tick box to say I have kept a copy of the key information 
pack and I confirm I have received the Deposit Information Sheet included within. 
I tried to click on the next button without ticking this box to see it would allow me to continue 
with the application, but it would not. Therefore, Im persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable for Family to hold Mr H to their terms and conditions as he would have needed to 
agree to have read and kept a copy of these from the key information pack before 
proceeding with his application. Even when you click the next button, the following page has 
a can we help section, which includes the frequently asked questions section and the key 
information pack section. So if Mr H didnt think the terms and conditions were clear by this 
point, I would have expected him to contact Family directly to ask any questions before he 
completed his application. 
With each type of ISA available to hold in the Online ISA, Family have a link to a summary 
page. Ive opened this for each product where it again reiterates that you wont be able to 
transfer individual products held within the Online ISA. And the personal details page also 
has in a prominent position on the right hand side of the page, the frequently asked 
questions and the key information pack. 
Im satisfied that Family have made it very clear across multiple sections of the application 
process of how their products work and what would happen if you wanted to transfer money 
out. Even if Mr H may not have read through the information on the initial webpages, it 
couldnt be avoided when you clicked start application, and the instructions in bold clearly 
ask the user to read the key information pack before progressing to the application  which also includes links to the frequently asked questions and key information pack which, in my 
opinion, clearly explain that the Online ISA can hold different individual products in it, but 
wont allow partial transfers out, only full transfers, and if any products are in a fixed rate, 
then there would be a breakage charge. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said regarding how Family could be acting fairly by allowing 
him to open a one year product knowing he couldnt operate it as a one year product based 
under their terms. But different customers will save for different purposes. Some customers 
may be saving for a specific purpose or need money at certain times. Some customers might 
find it useful to have some funds tied up on higher fixed rates that they can leave and not 
worry about, while also having some money that can be withdrawn without penalty in an 
emergency. 
In relation to the expectations of Family, if a customer had a one year and a two year 
product, I would expect a fair organisation to follow the terms and conditions in which it 
entered into with the customer. I can see that Family notified him that the one year product 
was maturing and gave him options of what he could do with the money. Its important to say 
that the matured funds did not have to stay in the holding account, Mr H could have moved 
them to the Easy ISA account  which pays a higher interest rate than the holding account 
the matured funds would be paid into, or he could have chosen to fix the interest rate for one 
year to coincide with the two year fixed ISA. Alternatively he could have put the matured 
funds into a two year fixed rate.
I cant agree with Mr H saying it would be fair for Family to pay the two year interest rate on 
the full balance. I say this as Mr H agreed to the terms and conditions of the account. There 
were multiple explanations across several webpages of how this would work. It wouldnt be 
fair for Family to pay the same rate of interest on instant access funds as a product he fixed 
for two years. Mr H was free to move the matured funds into a different Family ISA at a 
higher interest rate without restriction (Easy ISA).
Also, if interest rates did increase during the term, then higher interest rates may be 
available for Mr Hs instant access funds or for new one or two year fixed rate ISAs on 
maturity, or Family may make a business decision to raise their interest rates, so Im 
satisfied its reasonable for Family to have different interest rates for different products, 
where the terms and conditions of the individual products are different. 
I asked Family Mr Hs question about how they consider the significance of a maturity date 
of 15 April 2021. Family said The funds are available to Mr H to withdraw, however, they 
cant transfer part of his ISA to a new provider. Im persuaded this is reasonable based on 
the terms and conditions Mr H agreed to when opening the account. He would not only be 
free to withdraw those funds from the maturity date, but he could have moved them to a 
different Family ISA which may pay higher interest than what the holding account would pay, 
without having to pay a breakage fee.
In summary, Im satisfied that Family treated Mr H fairly for the reasons Ive already given. 
So it follows that I dont require Family to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman