DRN-3171802
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDF) handled her 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
Miss C bought a sofa in June 2019 using finance provided by SDF. However, she is not 
happy with it and she wants to return it for a refund. In summary, she says the sofa is of poor 
quality and:
the fabric on the sofa crinkles up when someone sits on it and looks very old
the sofa provides poor support and sinks in places and is uncomfortable
the cushions do not fit well
SDF did not offer a refund - it offered to collect the sofa to inspect it for faults and determine 
the best course of action. Miss C cancelled the first collection and did not re-arrange another 
date. SDF now says it is no longer willing to collect the sofa for inspection as too much time 
has passed.
Miss C says she had to cancel the first collection (due around Sep 2019) because of a 
personal emergency. She says she was going to arrange a second collection date for March 
2020, but says the couriers were unable to provide their Covid-19 safe procedures so she 
did not go ahead with this. She says that afterwards the country went into lockdown and the 
courier suspended collections, so she referred the matter to our service to look into. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, he said there wasnt sufficiently 
persuasive evidence that the sofa was of unsatisfactory quality. He noted that Miss C had 
not got in touch with SDF to arrange a collection of the sofa for an inspection after lockdown.
Miss C did not accept the investigators view. In summary, she says it is not her fault the 
sofa wasnt inspected and the evidence she has provided clearly shows how poorly it was 
made. She wants an ombudsman to look at things afresh.
Before issuing my decision I wrote to Miss C to clarify my thoughts regarding the offer to 
collect the goods for inspection. And give her further opportunity to comment on this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the quality of the goods
In certain circumstances Section 75 allows Miss C to hold SDF responsible for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation in respect of goods purchased using the credit afforded here. 
There are certain technical criteria which dictate whether Section 75 applies and I am 
satisfied these are met here. So I turn to whether there has been a breach of contract by the 
supplier of the goods.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this case. It says that goods should be of 
satisfactory quality. In essence this is what a reasonable person would consider to be 
satisfactory taking into account all the relevant circumstances, such as the price and 
description of those goods. Aspects of the quality of the goods include their fitness for the 
purpose for which the goods are usually supplied, their appearance and finish, safety and 
durability.
Miss C feels strongly about the quality of the goods she has been supplied. Unfortunately, 
having carefully considered, what she has said, the photos and video, I am not persuaded 
the goods were of unsatisfactory quality at the time of sale. To my eye, the photos and video 
dont clearly show a faulty or poorly made sofa. While some of the things Miss C has 
complained about could also reasonably be put down to characteristics of that particular 
model rather than inherent defects. 
Without further evidence, such as an expert inspection report, I am unable to fairly conclude 
that the sofa was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
offer to collect the goods
SDF offered to collect the sofa in order to carry out an inspection at no cost to Miss C. This 
might have shown persuasively that the sofa has faults which render it of unsatisfactory 
quality. However, a collection was not successful and now SDF says too long has passed for 
it to be willing to offer this now.
I know Miss C feels the failure to collect the sofa sooner isnt her fault and it is unfair that 
SDF is no longer offering this. However, I cant fairly say SDF as the finance provider has 
acted unreasonably here. I will explain.
From what I have seen, SDF gave Miss C a reasonable opportunity for her to take it up on 
the offer to inspect the sofa at the outset. I am sorry she had some personal health issues 
which meant the first collection around Sept 2019 didnt take place, but it appeared SDF 
were willing to collect the goods over a wide window leading up to lockdown in March 2020. 
It also wrote to her in May 2020 to say she could re-arrange this for immediately after 
restrictions were eased.
To my mind, it isnt entirely clear why Miss C did not re-arrange collection soon after 
lockdown. At first she appeared to indicate it was because she had referred the matter to this 
service. But Miss C later mentioned that SDF were unwilling to collect the sofa and that the 
courier would not provide her with Covid-19 safety measures. More recently she has 
indicated that she attempted to re-arrange delivery after lockdown but did not hear back.
However, the evidence I have seen indicates SDF were willing to collect Miss Cs sofa after 
lockdown ended and that the information she wanted about safety was readily available. I 
dont have persuasive evidence it refused requests for collection or ignored these either. 
I appreciate that due to the challenges around the pandemic it was not the easiest time to 
deal with matters like this. And there are certain expectations around businesses to assist 
consumers, despite these challenges. However, I have had regard to what SDFs obligations 
are as a finance provider in respect of resolving issues with goods. After doing so I dont 
think that SDF has acted unfairly. And while it is now unwilling to collect the sofa for an inspection due to the passage of time, this doesnt, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, seem unreasonable. 
It is also important to note that even if SDF had been able to inspect the sofa this would not 
necessarily have ended up in getting Miss C the resolution she wanted in any event. As I 
have said above  the evidence supplied to date is not persuasive in showing that the goods 
are of unsatisfactory quality.
I know Miss C is very frustrated with the sofa and I am sorry to hear about that. However, in 
light of what I have said above, and with Section 75 in mind I dont think it would be fair to 
direct SDF to do anything more in respect of her claim about the quality of the goods.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman