DRN-3106375
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has 
unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted Lloyds to make a claim when they found rot in their kitchen. 
Lloyds appointed a company to assess the damage, but the company was unable to 
determine the cause of damage. So, Lloyds asked Mr S and Mrs S to provide a cause of 
damage report.
Mr S and Mrs S provided a report to Lloyds. This said the likely cause was a previous leak 
from the boiler, which had caused rot to develop. Lloyds declined the claim because it said 
rot was specifically excluded under the terms of the policy and that Mr S and Mrs S had also 
failed to mitigate their loss.
When Mr S and Mrs S complained, Lloyds accepted there was an insurable peril but 
maintained its decision to decline the claim because of exclusions in the policy. However, it 
offered £50 compensation because of issues with how the claim had been handled.
So, Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. While the complaint was with this service, 
Lloyds provided new information about what it now assessed to be the cause of damage. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there was nothing to show Mr S and Mrs S 
were aware of the rot before they made their claim and that they had contacted Lloyds when 
they became aware. He said that he couldnt take into account the new information provided 
by Lloyds, as this was from after the date of the final response letter, but that Lloyds should 
continue to consider the claim. He also said Lloyds should reimburse Mr S and Mrs S for the 
cost of the report. He said the compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Lloyds didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
I will explain why.
Ive only considered what happened up until the date of the final response letter in order to 
make my decision. Lloyds asked Mr S and Mrs S to provide a report showing the cause of 
damage. The report said the cause of damage was a previous leak from the boiler. An 
escape of water was an insured event, so Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to apply exclusions in order to decline the claim.
Lloyds said Mr S and Mrs S hadnt taken steps to mitigate the loss. Looking at what 
happened, a few months earlier, Mr S and Mrs S had a repair carried out to deal with a small 
leak from their boiler. My understanding is that they dealt with the leak promptly when they 
became aware of it. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S and Mrs S were aware of 
any damage before they contacted Lloyds or that they could have dealt with the damage 
sooner. So, I dont think its fair for Lloyds to refuse to deal with the claim on that basis. 
Ive also thought about whether it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the rot exclusion. Even when 
an insured event has taken place, it would often be reasonable for an insurer to rely on such 
an exclusion. However, again, I need to consider whether Mr S and Mrs S were likely to 
have been aware the damage was happening. Ive already said I dont think Mr S and Mrs S 
were likely to have been aware of the damage and, from what Ive seen, they took action 
when they became aware of it. So, in my view, Lloyds has to settle the claim unless other 
terms or conditions exist that limit or defeat its liability. As a result, I require Lloyds to 
continue to consider the claim and any settlement for it. If Lloyds makes a cash settlement 
for the claim, it should pay interest on that amount because Mr S and Mrs S lost use of that 
money.
Im aware that Lloyds has additional evidence that it thinks should be taken into account as 
part of my decision. However, I dont think it would be fair for me to do so. That evidence 
wasnt available at the point Lloyds issued its final response to this complaint and didnt form 
part of its decision. This doesnt prevent Lloyds from continuing to consider this claim in the 
same way it would other claims. 
Lloyds should reimburse Mr S and Mrs S any costs for the report they were asked to 
provide, subject to Mr S and Mrs S providing Lloyds with evidence of those costs.
Ive also looked at the compensation offered for the issues with claims handling. Having 
done so, I can see that Lloyds didnt deal with parts of the claim as promptly as it could have, 
such as reviewing documents Mr S and Mrs S provided. I think the £50 Lloyds has already 
offered is appropriate in the circumstances and I dont require it to pay any further 
compensation.
  
Putting things right
Lloyds must consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
if a cash settlement is paid, pay interest on that amount and reimburse any cost to Mr S and 
Mrs S of providing the report.  My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
If a cash settlement is paid, pay 8% simple interest from the date on which the claim was 
made to the date on which it is paid.
Reimburse the cost of the report Mr S and Mrs S were asked to provide, subject to Mr S 
and Mrs S providing Lloyds with evidence of costs.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman