DRN-2685673
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about delays with their mortgage application to Coutts & Company. 
They ask for compensation for a lost deposit.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M wanted to raise money to help a family member (who Ill refer to as T) with a 
house purchase. T agreed to buy a property with a completion date in April 2020, which was 
extended to early May.
Mr and Mrs M applied to Coutts for a mortgage. There were delays with the valuation and 
the completion date was missed. The vendor kept the deposit of about £40,000. 
Our investigator said while there were problems organising the valuation this wasnt due to 
an error by Coutts. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said, in summary, Coutts had no policy for valuations, 
assured them the valuation was a formality and made unconditional promises to lend, and 
took an absurd and unacceptable length of time to decide the mortgage/valuation wasnt 
viable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M wanted to raise money to help a family member buy a property. Theyd 
intended to take out a buy to let mortgage. 
T agreed to buy a property and paid a deposit of £40,000, provided by Mr and Mrs M, with 
an agreed completion date of 21 April. This was later extended to 6 May.
Coutts told Mr and Mrs M on 14 April 2020 a buy to let mortgage couldnt proceed at that 
time. Coutts would have required a physical valuation of the buy to let property, which wasnt 
possible during the National lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Coutts mortgage 
advisor suggested applying for a residential mortgage or equity release with a desktop 
valuation, and re-financing with a buy to let mortgage when this became possible. 
Coutts instructed a surveyor to carry out a desk top valuation. The surveyor said they were 
unable to provide a desk top valuation due to the nature of Mr and Mrs Ms property.
Mr and Mrs Ms property had been valued relatively recently and they suggested using the 
same surveyor. The surveyor had since moved to a different firm of surveyors which wasnt 
on Coutts panel. It was agreed in early May 2020 the surveyor would co-ordinate with the 
surveyor instructed by Coutts. Coutts wanted to check the surveyors professional indemnity 
insurance would apply. Unfortunately, the valuation wasnt available before the agreed 
completion date for Ts property purchase.
On 13 May 2020 Mr and Mrs M said the vendor had rescinded Ts contract and kept the 
deposit. They told Coutts they wanted to continue with the mortgage application in case 
there was an opportunity to buy the property.
In mid to late May 2020, as Government restrictions were lifted, the surveyors said they 
could carry out a physical valuation. Mr M said an internal inspection wasnt possible as 
family members were shielding. The surveyor said they could do the valuation without going 
inside. However, it seems Mr and Mrs M decided not to proceed.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M are upset that Ts purchase didnt complete, and the 
deposit was lost. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Coutts to pay 
compensation.
Before offering to lend Coutts requires a valuation of a property to check that its good 
security for the loan. As Coutts doesnt have expertise to value property itself, it appoints a 
valuer or surveyor. Its entitled to agree the terms on which it instructs a surveyor, and check 
that the surveyor meets its criteria including as to their professional indemnity insurance. It 
has a panel of surveyors which meet its criteria. The terms and criteria Coutts use, and 
which surveyors it has on its panel, are matters for its commercial judgement. 
Id expect Coutts to ensure the surveyor it instructed for Mr and Mrs Ms valuation was 
suitably qualified, and I think they were. The surveyor it instructed was a member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
It was unfortunate that the surveyor wasnt able to provide a desk top valuation. But it was 
the surveyor that said this wasnt possible, not Coutts. The surveyor told Coutts why this 
was, and I think it was reasonable for Coutts to accept this. Due to Government restrictions 
in place at that time the surveyor couldnt carry out a physical valuation.
Mr M said Coutts should use his valuer, and put them on their panel if necessary. He said 
Coutts didnt need to check indemnity insurance as the firm of surveyors were large and 
reputable. He says he suggested solutions which Coutts unreasonable rejected or agreed to 
and then changed its mind. 
Coutts didnt have to agree to lend without a valuation. It didnt have to agree to lend on the 
basis of a valuation from a surveyor instructed by Mr and Mrs M and which wasnt on its 
panel. Nonetheless, Coutts agreed it would do so provided its own surveyor was happy its 
criteria were met. I think this was reasonable, even if it wasnt possible to do this within the 
available time. I think Coutts acted reasonably to try to find ways to progress Mr and Mrs Ms 
application in a timely manner. 
While Mr M says he was given assurances and unconditional promises to lend the evidence 
doesnt support this. Its quite clear that Coutts was waiting for a valuation before the 
application could proceed. It was Mr and Mrs Ms decision, with T, to agree a completion 
date and pay a deposit without having a mortgage offer in place. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman