DRN-3978629
The complaint
Miss C has complained that the Co-operative Bank PLC (the Co-op) wont refund a 
withdrawal she says the cash machine did not dispense. 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 22 August 2022 Miss C tried to withdraw £250 at a cash machine. She says when the 
cash wasnt dispensed, she went to a branch which said the matter would be investigated. 
The Co-op credited £250 into Miss Cs account whilst it looked into the matter.
The Co-op found that records for the cash machine used by Miss C on 22 August 2022 
showed the withdrawal was made successfully and no errors were identified. It said 
evidence also showed there was no discrepancy in the balance of funds on that day. And so, 
the Co-op concluded that Miss C had received the £250 and debited this from her account. 
Miss C maintained she hadnt received the £250 and wanted the Co-op to return the money 
to her. She also said she wasnt told the credit into her account was temporary while the 
matter was being investigated. 
Our Investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Miss C maintained she hadnt received the £250 from the cash machine. She said shed had 
some problems with her online banking  but the Co-op had told her that her card could be 
used to withdraw cash from machines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss C and Id like to assure her I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Miss C that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but 
Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Miss Cs strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the significance of the 
£250 to her. But I need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell the Co-op to 
refund the disputed £250 if the evidence supports that it was not dispensed to Miss C.
According to the cash machines electronic records, Miss C put in her card and PIN and 
asked to withdraw £250. The withdrawal was approved, and £250 was dispensed - and this 
shows as a debit on Miss Cs bank statement. The cash machine balance also 
correspondingly reduced by £250. 
I appreciate Miss C recalls the cash machine shutting down in some way, but the records 
Ive seen dont suggest the machine experienced any errors. In addition, the customers 
before and after Miss C were able to use the machine without any issues. 
If the cash machine hadnt dispensed the £250, then Id expect it to have had £250 or so of 
extra cash in it afterwards. But when the cash machine was checked for balancing, the 
analyst confirmed that the funds balanced. This also suggests that Miss Cs cash was 
dispensed properly. 
Furthermore, Ive seen no evidence of criminal activity. Miss C has confirmed no one was 
behind her whilst she was at the cash machine  and theres no evidence of any reports that 
a third-party device had been fitted to the machine. 
So, the evidence I have strongly supports that Miss C asked for £250 and that the cash 
machine gave it out. And Ive not seen anything which shows or substantiates that any of the 
cash did not get dispensed. So, I dont have a fair basis on which to tell the Co-op to refund 
the disputed £250. 
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss C to 
receive. But given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion. 
Miss C is also concerned that the Co-op didnt make it clear to her that the £250 credit into 
her account was temporary whilst it investigated the withdrawal. I dont know for certain what 
the Co-op told Miss C in this regard, but the information Ive seen shows that a temporary 
credit is part of the ATM dispute process. 
Under this process, Id expect the Co-op to have made it clear to Miss C that the credit was 
temporary. And I think its likely this would be a well understood process in branch  such 
that I think its at least equally, if not more likely, that the Co-op did tell Miss C about this, but 
she just doesnt recall it. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded I can say its more likely than not that the Co-op didnt 
make Miss C aware the £250 credit was potentially temporary.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask the Co-op to refund the £250 to Miss C. Nor do I think it 
misinformed her about the £250 credit to her account. 
So, Im not going to tell the Co-op to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman