DRN-1504063
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002 by Mrs E in her former name. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
What happened
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the application form with the Yes tick box 
and the separate signature box, that Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs E, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs E.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs E about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell Mrs E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs E has said - including what she said about only buying 
insurance from her husbands company, her savings, sick pay and support from her 
husband. But these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mrs E any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank of Scotland should also pay back to Mrs E any 
extra interest she paid because of that.If it hasnt done so already, Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay 
back to Mrs E the difference between what Mrs E owes and what she wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of 
Scotland should also pay Mrs E 8%* simple interest if she paid off their credit card at some 
point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs E can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
 
My final decision
I don't uphold the mis-sale complaint.
But - unless it has already done so  Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mrs E 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman