DRN-3923548
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service hes received from Acromas Insurance Company Limited 
(Acromas) after making a claim under his caravan insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021, whilst being towed, the wheel came off Mr Ms caravan causing damage to it. 
The caravan was recovered to Acromas agent for repairs to be carried out.
There was a delay in receiving the parts required along with repair specialist availability, this 
caused delays in the initial repairs being completed. Following the repairs, the caravan was 
returned to Mr M in November 2021. However, Mr M was unhappy with the standard of 
repairs and that finishing items were missing.
Due to the service Mr M had received, Acromas waived the £100 policy excess. They also 
said that once parts were available, theyd collect the caravan for further repairs. During this 
time the battery on the caravan wasnt holding charge, so Acromas also agreed to cover the 
cost of a replacement battery. 
In February 2022 the caravan was collected, and during repairs it was identified that the 
battery still wasnt holding charge and needed investigation. But there were delays with this 
being completed. It was determined that the alarm system was causing the battery to drain. 
Ultimately, whilst they didnt believe it was incident related, Acromas covered the cost of 
replacing the alarm.
Acromas said the caravan was repaired in August 2022, but Mr M wouldnt allow it to be 
returned until he had been provided with documentation surrounding repairs. The caravan 
was later returned to Mr M, but still had issues with the repairs.
Mr M is unhappy with Acromas handling of his claim and approached this service. Across 
the claim and complaints, Acromas has paid a total of £450 compensation, reimbursed the 
cost of a new battery and paid for a new alarm, along with waiving the excess in the earlier 
stages.
Our investigator looked into matters. She said shed only be considering from when the claim 
was made in June 2021 to September 2022. She recognised that the caravan still had 
issues after being returned, but she explained that this would be a new separate complaint  
and Acromas had already raised that new complaint.
For the period the investigator considered, she acknowledged the costs that Mr M said he 
would like Acromas to pay. However, the only additional remedy she said Acromas should 
do to put things right (in addition to what they had already offered), was to pay 50% of the 
storage charges due for the period she was considering, totalling £237.50.
Acromas agreed with the investigator recommendation. Mr M didnt agree.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should explain that Im only considering the same period as our investigator here in 
my final decision. That is, from June to 2021 when the claim was made, up to 
September 2022. Ordinarily wed only consider the period a business had already addressed 
in their final response  here Acromas issued final responses up to 21 May 2022. However, 
Acromas also provided file information up to September 2022, and didnt object to us 
considering that additional period (or the investigators recommendation - including for that 
period).
I recognise that since then, Mr M has had his caravan returned. Further issues with the 
repairs have been discovered and hes unhappy he still hasnt had his caravan returned in 
what he says is a fit for purpose condition. And hes arranged (and paid for) his own 
inspection to be carried out. However, this isnt part of the period Im considering here, and 
Acromas is considering this as a separate complaint.
Ill also outline that Ive briefly summarised what happened. I dont intend on commenting on 
every event or communication which occurred throughout the claim as both parties are 
already aware. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects the 
informal nature of this service and my role within it. But Id like to assure both parties that Ive 
considered all the information theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
The claim delays and service received
Its not in dispute that delays have occurred during the claim. The caravan was taken in for 
repairs in June 2021 and wasnt returned until November 2021. During this time, there was a 
backlog in required parts being available. When the parts were eventually received in 
September 2021, the initial works were completed in a timely manner. 
Acromas contacted the repairer a number of times throughout chasing for updates, but they 
were told that the repairer was still awaiting the parts. Im not able to hold Acromas 
responsible for delays in parts availability. Whilst Acromas could have attempted to source 
parts elsewhere due to the ongoing delays, given they were manufacturer parts, it is unlikely 
this would have moved things along more quickly as the same backlog would likely have 
been encountered elsewhere.
However, after these repairs, there was also body work required, but due to leave and 
medical reasons, the specialist was unavailable for several weeks. Acromas at this stage, 
due to the timescales, potentially could have attempted to source an alternative engineer, 
but given the repair needed to be completed by a specialist, there isnt anything to show with 
certainty that this would have been carried out more quickly if they had done so.
After these works were completed, the caravan was returned to Mr M in November 2021. 
However, Mr M was unhappy with the quality of the repairs, and that finishing parts were 
missing. The wheel lock also didnt fit the new wheels.
Acromas said theyd collect the caravan when the missing parts were available to be fitted, 
and waived the £100 claim excess, which was more than enough to cover the cost of a 
replacement wheel lock.However, whilst awaiting the replacement parts and in storage, it was identified there was an 
issue with the battery and it wasnt holding charge. Acromas agreed to pay for a replacement 
battery, but this didnt resolve the issue. There was also a delay of around three months in 
reimbursing the cost of the battery to Mr M.
Acromas collected the caravan in February 2022 when the finishing parts were available, 
and also advised an electrical engineer was required to investigate the battery issue. But 
there were delays of around four weeks in them being available to investigate. 
Following investigation, it was determined that the alarm was causing the battery to drain, 
and this was isolated by the repairer which resolved the issue. However, Mr M was unhappy 
with this as the caravan had a functioning alarm prior to the incident and repairs. Ultimately 
Acromas paid for the alarm to be replaced. Works were completed in August 2022, but Mr M 
wouldnt allow the caravan to be returned until he had been provided with documentation 
about the works that had been carried out.
It isnt in dispute there have been delays, poor communication and repairs havent effectively 
been completed. This is why Acromas has paid compensation, along with the additional 
items mentioned, to attempt to put things right.
Acromas says the battery and alarm issue werent related to the incident that resulted in the 
claim needing to be made. Mr M disputes this, as he says they were working fine before the 
loss. However, from the information provided, I cant see that these items were damaged 
during the incident, and they dont form part of the original works required.
In the absence of any evidence to show they should always have been part of the original 
repairs related to the incident, Im satisfied Acromas dealing with those items and referring to 
them as a gesture of goodwill as part of their attempt to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. And the cost to Ageas was around £290 for the alarm replacement and 
investigation, and £87.96 for the battery. So, Im satisfied this goes some way toward 
compensating Mr M (along with the monetary compensation) for what has happened.
In addition, Acromas also waived the policy excess (£100). And across the claim period Im 
considering, Acromas also paid £450 compensation. £150 was for poor communication and 
a delay in reimbursing the battery costs. £300 was for delays in the engineer inspecting the 
battery issue, and that this still wasnt resolved, along with communication issues.
When considering the level of compensation overall and the period Im considering, I think 
£450 compensation, covering the alarm, battery and waiving the excess is fair and 
reasonable for the service Mr M has received. So, Im not going to direct Acromas to 
increase this.
Additional costs being claimed for
Mr M has also asked for Acromas to pay several costs he holds them responsible for. Ill 
consider each separately.
£39 per hour for correspondence during the claim
Mr M has asked for an hourly rate for corresponding with Acromas throughout his claim. 
Hes calculated a total of 13.5 hours and says he should receive £39 per hour.
Whilst I note Mr Ms request, Im not going to direct Acromas to pay this hourly rate. With any 
claim there will be inconvenience, but I do agree this was much more than expected due to what went wrong throughout. However, Im satisfied the compensation already offered (and 
additional items Acromas paid for) is fair and reasonable for the service received, so I wont 
be directly an hourly rate on top of that amount.
Holidays abroad
Mr M says hes calculated during this time period, using his caravan for holidays, he would 
likely have spent around £1,800. But hes not been able to use it. As a result, Mr M took 
holidays abroad at a cost of £4,640. So, hes asked for the difference in what he would have 
spent on caravan holidays against the trips he took abroad  totalling £2,840.
Whilst I note Mr Ms request, Im not going to direct Acromas to pay for his holidays abroad. 
Mr M decided to holiday abroad as an alternative to caravan trips, at a much higher cost. 
This was his choice to do so, and this wasnt something he agreed with Acromas 
beforehand. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Acromas to cover this cost. 
I do recognise that Mr M wasnt able to use his caravan for periods of time (although it was 
back with him for some of this time waiting for finishing parts), but Im of the view the 
compensation (and covering the cost of the items as mentioned) fairly compensates Mr M for 
this.
Insurance premiums
Mr M has asked for a refund of the insurance premiums hes incurred. 
However, Mr M would always have incurred this cost. And a significant portion of the period 
Im considering was within the same policy year as the claim and prior to renewal. The 
insurance premiums would always have been payable in full as Mr M had made a successful 
claim under his policy. And Acromas waived the policy excess that otherwise would have 
been incurred under the terms of Mr Ms policy  which is almost the equivalent of half the 
yearly premium.
As I say, some of the delays were outside of Acromas control. But Mr M wouldve always 
been responsible for keeping his caravan insured regardless of whether he had an accident 
or not. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to reimburse those 
insurance costs. 
Independent report
Mr M has also had an independent report completed after his caravan was returned in 
October 2022. So, hes asked for the cost of that to be reimbursed. But that falls outside the 
period Im considering as part of this complaint, so its not something Im going to decide as 
part of this final decision.Storage charges
Mr M paid for his caravan storage space throughout, this included extended periods it was 
empty because the caravan was with Acromas repairer. Mr M has explained that as he was 
unsure when the caravan would be returned, as there were delays in parts and repairs, he 
had to continue to make the quarterly payments.
Mr M has also said that if he had cancelled it, then that would have jeopardised his future 
storage for the caravan, as he likely wouldnt have been able to obtain another space.
For the period Im considering, the total for storage amounts to £475. However, the caravan 
would always have been in for repairs, and this timescale was extended by the lack of 
available parts - which was outside Acromas control. The caravan was also returned for 
several months after the initial repairs were completed, and later, Mr M wouldnt accept it 
being returned until he had received documentation. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Acromas to cover the full costs of the storage. 
But as I do agree that Acromas was responsible for some of the overall claim delays, Im 
going to direct them to pay 50% of the storage costs (subject to proof of the costs being 
provided), totalling £237.50, and I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. In addition to what has already been 
offered/paid by Acromas Insurance Company Limited, they must:
Pay Mr M £237.50 for 50% of the storage charges (subject to proof being provided)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman