DRN-1768974
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that hes lost a significant amount of money because of a mistake made by
Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd (Abbey) when it was helping him to make an insurance claim.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr S water company let him know a pipe underneath his house was
leaking. It told him he needed to get the leak fixed. His representative got in touch with
Abbey so it could help him to make a claim. Abbey transferred the call through to a claims
team. The agent Mr S representative spoke to told her to get the repairs done and to send in 
invoices for consideration.
A couple of weeks later, Mr S representative went into Abbeys branch. Abbey called Mr S
insurer on his behalf. It explained a contractor had found the leak and was ready to start
repairs. The insurer told Abbey the works could go ahead, but that it couldnt guarantee all of 
the costs of the repairs until itd seen invoices and validated them. It offered to send out its 
own contractor to look into the claim. Mr S decided to go ahead with getting the repairs done 
by the contractor hed already chosen. The cost of the repairs was around £7000.
Mr S brought a complaint to us about the insurer. This was looked at separately by an
investigator, who didnt think the insurer was responsible for paying the full costs of the
claim. As part of his investigation, the investigator listened to Mr S representatives first call
with Abbey. It had transferred her through to the wrong insurer, rather than to Mr S insurer.
So Mr S asked us to consider a complaint about Abbey and the impact its error had had on
him.
In his assessment, the investigator recommended that the complaint about Abbey should be
upheld. He said had it transferred him through to the right insurer when Mr S representative
first called, it was likely Mr S wouldve asked the insurers contractors to trace the leak and
carry out the repairs. So he said Mr S only cost wouldve been the £100 claim excess. He
recommended Abbey pay the rest of Mr S costs, together with £500 compensation for the
trouble and upset its actions had caused him. 
Abbey agreed to pay Mr S £500 compensation. But it didnt agree to pay the balance of Mr
S repair costs. It said it thought the bulk of responsibility for the mistakes lay with the insurer 
Mr S representative had spoken to in error. And it said that on the second call to the actual 
insurer, Mr S had been made aware that if he got the works carried out by his own
contractor, the full costs might not be covered.
I issued my provisional decision about Mr S' complaint on 24 March 2020. I explained the 
reasons why I was only planning to tell Abbey to pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset its 
mistake had caused him. I said:
'Ive listened carefully to the initial call between Abbey and Mr S representative, shortly after
hed been told about the leak by the water board. Its clear that Abbey did put him through tothe wrong insurer when it transferred the call. So it obviously did make a mistake. But I need 
to think about whether it would be fair to hold Abbey responsible for all of the costs Mr S 
incurred in getting the leak fixed. And based on all Ive seen so far, I dont think it would.
Abbeys agent didnt speak to the insurer when she transferred the first call through. She
simply put Mr S representative through. It might have been helpful if she had spoken to the
insurer before transferring the call. Its possible that they might have established that Mr S
didnt have a policy with that particular insurer and Abbeys agent couldve possibly called
the right insurer at that point.
But I have to look at what did happen. When Mr S representative spoke to the wrong
insurer, the agent didnt ask for a policy number or confirm Mr S was covered. The agent
simply told Mr S to get the repairs done and send in the invoices for consideration
afterwards. I dont think I can fairly hold Abbey responsible for the information given by
another financial business or for what it may or may not have done.
And Ive also carefully considered the fact that, at this point, Mr S didnt get the full repairs
done and then claim for the costs. Instead, his representative called Abbey a couple of
weeks later to let it know that the leak had been found and to check if it was ok to go ahead
with the full repair works. So at this point, the only costs that had been incurred were for
finding and getting to the leak. The actual repairs hadnt been carried out.
Abbey put Mr S representative through to the right insurer at this point. That insurer offered
to send a contractor out to look at the pipework and assess what needed to be done. From
what Ive seen, the insurer made it clear that it wouldnt guarantee any costs over and above 
what it would cost its own contractors to fix the leak. But Mr S chose to go ahead and get his 
own contractor to complete the repair works.
So I think, regardless of Abbeys initial mistake, Mr S knew at this point that he had a choice
about whether or not to continue to use his own contractor to get the works done. And he
knew that if he did, it was possible he wouldnt get his full costs paid out. If the insurer had
the repairs done by its own contractor, it wouldve limited what it paid out to £1800, including
finding the leak and the repair works.
I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Abbey responsible for Mr S choice not to use the
insurers contractor to get the actual repair works done. And I dont think this is a loss that
directly flows from Abbeys initial error.
If the insurer hadnt gone on to agree to pay the trace and access costs, its most likely Id
have directed Abbey to reimburse Mr S for these costs. Thats because I think, based on
what he was initially told, getting the leak investigated and repaired wouldve been a
reasonable thing to do. But I currently think any potential liability of Abbeys ended at the
point he was told if he continued using his own contractor, his costs might not be
reimbursed. Thats because I think he was made aware of the potential impact of making this 
choice. And at this point, Mr S costs were limited to tracing and accessing the leak.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think the £900 settlement Mr S was paid by the insurer
towards finding and getting to the leak seems reasonable. But if Mr S can provide me with
clear, expert evidence which shows that the £900 the insurer paid didnt cover the full trace
and access costs, Ill ask Abbey to consider these costs.
The investigator recommended Abbey pay Mr S compensation of £500 for the trouble and
upset its mistake caused him. Abbeys agreed to this. In all the circumstances, this seems
fair. I dont doubt how upsetting this situation has been for Mr S, particularly when he wastold his insurer hadnt learned about the claim until it was well underway. Im pleased
Abbeys agreed to pay this compensation.'
I asked both Mr S' representative and Abbey to send me any more evidence or arguments 
they wanted me to consider by 23 April 2020.
Abbey didn't respond.
Mr S' representative confirmed she'd received my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S nor Abbey have provided me with anything further to consider, my final 
decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr S' complaint in part.
I  direct Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd to pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset its
mistake caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman