DRN-3560789
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in late 2019, Mr and Mrs K booked a trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 9 April 2020 and 16 April 2020 respectively. On                
10 March 2020, Mr K bought a single trip travel insurance policy. 
On 10 March 2020, Mr Ks mother died. On 16 March 2020 the government of               
Mr and Mrs Ks intended destination imposed a travel ban on UK citizens. On               
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
That advice remained in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Ks intended departure. The 
airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ks flights.
Mr and Mrs K say that they couldnt travel because of the death of Mr Ks mother and the 
restrictions imposed in response to covid-19. Mr K contacted AWP in relation to a claim 
for the cost of their flights. AWP declined the claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy 
in relation to claims arising from or relating to any epidemic or pandemic. It also said that 
Mr and Mrs K had recovered their loss from the airline, as it had offered a voucher. Mr K 
complained to AWP. I understand that the airline has now refunded the cost of the 
flights.
Mr and Mrs K say that AWP made Mr K feel like he was making a fraudulent claim when 
he first notified it of their claim. Mr K says that this caused him distress at an already 
difficult time following the death of his mother. Mr and Mrs K say that AWP mis-sold 
them the policy as it didnt make it clear when they bought the policy that it wouldnt 
cover claims arising out of covid-19. Mr and Mrs K say that if they had known the true 
position, they wouldnt have taken out the policy. They want compensation and a refund 
of their premium. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that as the airline had 
now refunded the flight costs, there were no losses to be paid under the claim. The 
investigator didnt think that the policy had been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs K. She noted 
that AWP hadnt provided the information shed asked for but on the basis of what Mr K 
said, she thought that AWP should pay Mr and Mrs K compensation of £100 in relation 
to customer service issues when Mr K first made the claim. 
AWP didnt respond to the investigators recommendation. As there was no agreement 
between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP hasnt responded to this services request for information, so Ive proceeded on the 
basis of information provided by Mr and Mrs K.
As the airline has now refunded Mr and Mrs Ks flight costs, I dont need to determine their 
claim against the policy, as they have recovered their loss. 
AWP is the underwriter of the policy. The policy states that AWP hasnt provided                 
Mr and Mrs K with any recommendation or advice about the suitability of the policy. But 
AWP is obliged to provide Mr and Mrs K with information thats clear and not misleading so 
they can make an informed decision about whether to buy the policy. I think AWP did that 
here when it provided Mr and Mrs K with the terms and conditions of the policy and the 
insurance product information document.  
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think that AWP was obliged to draw       
Mr and Mrs Ks attention to the general exclusion in relation to claims arising from or related 
to any epidemic or pandemic. Thats not an unusual exclusion in a policy like this. And its 
important to note that on the date Mr K bought the policy, the World Health Organisation 
hadnt yet declared covid-19 a pandemic. There are no grounds on which I could fairly direct 
AWP to refund the premium Mr and Mrs K paid.
Mr K has made allegations about how AWP treated him in a phone call when he first notified 
it about their claim. AWP hasnt provided the information this service has requested about 
this. So, Im proceeding on the basis of the information Mr K has provided. 
AWP is entitled to make enquires about the circumstances of the claim. In the particular 
circumstances here, I think its understandable that AWP asked Mr K about the timing of his 
purchase of the policy. But Mr K says that it did so in a way that caused him distress at an 
already difficult time and made him think that AWP believed he was making a fraudulent 
claim. In the absence of any rebuttal by AWP, I accept what Mr K says about this. 
I agree with the investigator that compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the distress and inconvenience caused by AWPs initial handling of Mr and Mrs Ks claim. In 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by AWPs actions in this case.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should play Mr and Mrs K compensation of £100 in relation 
to their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take 
the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Louise PoveyOmbudsman