DRN-3389418
The complaint
Mr R complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handling of a claim 
he made under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2019, a pipe burst in the first-floor bathroom in Mr Rs property. He contacted 
Lloyds to log a claim. They arranged for a contractor to dry out the property. However, given 
the damage that had occurred it wasnt possible for Mr R and his family to stay in their home 
whilst the remedial works were carried out. 
Mr R and his family moved into alternative accommodation, with many of their contents 
placed into storage. Mr R and his family returned to their home in Spring 2021.
During the claim, Mr R made a number of complaints to Lloyds about its handling of the 
claim. He said there had been significant delays in resolving his claim and challenges in 
communication with many changes to the people handling his claim. He also complained the 
remedial works were not completed to a satisfactory standard, saying there were items 
which were damaged by Lloyds contractors. Mr R also queried whether he should pay 
utilities incurred at both his home and at the alternative accommodation.
Lloyds responded to the complaints over the course of five separate final response letters 
issued between December 2019 and April 2021. It acknowledged there had been delays in 
handling the claim, along with an unsatisfactory standard of works and poor service. Lloyds 
paid Mr R a total of £550 compensation for the trouble and upset experienced. 
Unhappy with Lloyds handling of the claim, Mr R referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator said Lloyds should pay a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced as a result of not receiving the compensation offered. As neither side agreed 
with her conclusions, this matter has been passed to me. 
In March 2022, I issued a provisional decision. This is what I said:
What I can consider
As Ive said, during the course of this claim, Mr R made several complaints to Lloyds. He first 
contacted this service in January 2021. This was more than six months from the final 
responses issued in December 2019 and January 2021. Lloyds offered Mr R compensation 
of £100 and £50 respectively in these letters. 
These complaints werent referred to our service within six months of each of the final 
response letters being issued. Mr R hasnt told us of any exceptional circumstances that 
would have prevented him from referring these complaints to this service. As a result, Im 
unable to consider any issues raised in these two complaints. It follows Im also unable to 
decide if the compensation awarded for these complaints is fair and reasonable. 
As a result, my decision focuses on those issues raised and addressed in the September 
2020 final response letter onwards.
The buildings claim
Although Ive briefly summarised the background, Ive considered all thats happened and 
my decision focuses on those issues I consider most relevant to the outcome. This isnt 
intended to disregard any of the comments made by either side, rather it reflects the informal 
nature of the organisation.
As Ive said above, Ill consider Lloyds handling of the claim from January 2020 onwards, as 
this is the timeframe considered in the September 2020 final response letter. 
Lloyds accepts there are periods where there is a lack of communication about the claim 
between it and Mr R. I agree the level of communication fell below the standard Mr R ought 
to have received. Here Im referring to the time after the remedial works were indicated to 
have been finished in May 2020. However, its suggested from both the claim notes and the 
final response letter issued in September 2020, there was no meaningful communication 
until July 2020. 
There then seemed to be very little meaningful progress on Mr Rs claim until the end of 
2020. Lloyds has said this is down to a number of different factors. Its said these included 
the Covid-19 pandemic, the loss adjuster leaving, and correspondence being missed. I 
appreciate the pandemic will likely have impacted the handling of this claim. But I dont think 
its acceptable Mr Rs claim appears to have been so delayed by issues that ought to have 
been resolved by Lloyds fairly swiftly, like correspondence being missed or overlooked. 
Against this background, Lloyds said towards the end of 2020, it made a number of attempts 
to contact Mr R but without receiving a response. I can see from the claim notes there were 
several attempts to call Mr R during December 2020, but without a response. So, I do think 
there is a point where Lloyds was proactively trying to move the claim on but wasnt able to 
contact Mr R to do so. 
Mr R has complained he has had to pay utility bills at both properties and hasnt received a 
reduction for council tax on his property. Mr R says that he has provided this information to 
the loss adjuster, but Lloyds say it hasnt been provided. However, in the final response from 
Lloyds in February 2021, its stated the utility bills were being considered by the loss 
adjuster. Lloyds told this service it doesnt have any evidence on file to show a complaint 
about the utilities that has been made or addressed, but I dont agree. I consider this is a 
another example of the lack of communication and poor service that resulted in Lloyds 
paying Mr R compensation in the final response letters. If Lloyds hasnt already contacted Mr 
R about the utilities for both properties, it should do so as a matter of urgency.
Ill turn now to the snagging issues that arose as Mr R was told the property was ready for 
him to move back into. Mr R should have expected after such a long time of being away from 
his home, that the remedial works had been carried out to a satisfactory standard, but this 
was not the case. It took from January until March 2021 for the snagging works to be fully 
completed and arrangements for the boiler to be replaced. 
Mr R complained about his contents. In April 2021. And its noted they were water damaged 
whilst in storage. Lloyds said that they need to be inspected and this would be arranged. 
This is also noted in the final response letter from April 2021  which is the point I can 
consider up to. If Lloyds has not yet arranged to inspect the contents Mr R says were water 
damaged whilst in storage, it should do so. If Mr R remains unhappy with Lloyds continued 
handling of this part of his claim, he can raise another complaint and ask this service to 
consider it.  I appreciate Mr R feels very unhappy with the entire handling of the claim. He has raised 
some issues that are no doubt frustrating  such as being told by the cleaner of his 
alternative accommodation that his lease was coming to an end  but were beyond Lloyds 
control. However, I consider there was much more Lloyds could have done to progress the 
claim between May 2020 and March 2021. This was within Lloyds control and it ought to 
have done more. 
Mr R has explained that his distress and inconvenience he and his family experienced as a 
result of being delayed in returning to their home. Hes said its been worrying and frustrating 
being out of their home, without their contents for so long. When considering this, along with 
Lloyds recognition of poor service, communication, workmanship, and delays, Im intending 
to require Lloyds to pay Mr R a total compensation payment of £1,000, less the £400 
awarded in the final response letters I can consider. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr R said that he wasnt happy with the content of 
the provisional decision. He felt this services role was to protect people, not insurance 
companies, so he wasnt happy that there were parts of the claim we couldnt look at. He 
said he spent over £5,000 on a kitchen that Lloyds workmen damaged. And he reminded us 
that the claim itself is still ongoing, with the issues about his contents unresolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand for Mr R this matter is unresolved and what Ive been able to review is a 
snapshot of a claim thats been running for over two years. Im sorry that he feels my 
provisional decision doesnt cover all the issues hes raised. But nothing in his response has 
caused me to change my mind about those issues I said were referred to us too late to be 
considered.
Its clear the fact the claim is still ongoing is a source of frustration for Mr R. Its now for Mr R 
to decide if he wants to raise another complaint about Lloyds handling of the issue of the 
contents insurance. Ive also reconsidered the final response letters issued by Lloyds, and I 
cant see any of them specifically address Mr Rs concerns about the kitchen being damaged 
by Lloyds contractors, or that this concern was specifically raised. Its now for Mr R to 
decide if he wants to formalise a complaint about this point, in addition to the contents claim.
Our role isnt to act as a regulator. Instead, our role is to reach a decision we think fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. And while Ive considered Mr Rs further 
comments, they havent led me to reach a different conclusion. I dont consider Lloyds 
handled this claim in a timely manner, and the delays and poor communication caused Mr R 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied a fair and reasonable response to Mr Rs 
complaint is for Lloyds to pay a total compensation payment of £1,000, less the £400 already 
offered, for the reasons Ive given above. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr R a 
total of £1,000 compensation, less the £400 already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman