DRN-2110494
The complaint
Mr R complains Monzo Bank Limited wont refund him £250 he says didnt dispense from an 
ATM machine.
What happened
Mr R held a current account with Monzo. On 28 September 2019 he says £250 didnt 
dispense from an ATM, but his balance was debited. He contacted Monzo who raised a 
chargeback via the chargeback scheme applicable to the card.
 
The chargeback was defended and based on the evidence presented to Monzo, it decided to 
reject Mr Rs claim. Mr R complained , but Monzo refused to refund the £250. It says the 
evidence it received is sufficient to show £250 was dispensed from the ATM in question. It 
also says the evidence met the evidential requirements under the chargeback scheme.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
considered his complaint and decided it shouldnt be upheld. In summary they found:
- The evidence Monzo received when raising the chargeback indicated that £250 was 
dispensed.
- After approaching the ATM owner, it too presented evidence to show that £250 was 
dispensed. The ATM was refilled a few days after the transaction, and records show 
there wasnt any cash surplus. If the £250 hadnt dispensed it was more likely there 
would be a surplus.
- The ATM records show twelve £20 notes and one £10 note were recorded as 
dispensed. So, on balance, the information shows it was more likely than not that 
£250 was dispensed correctly.
- Its possible someone couldve taken the money from the machine after it dispensed, 
but Mr R didnt recall anyone being near him at the time.
Mr R disagrees with the outcome the investigator reached. Hes asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold Mr Rs complaint for broadly similar reasons to those reached by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the evidence and information presented by Monzo and the ATM provider in 
relation to the transaction. And this is what it shows:
- Mr Rs request for £250 was recorded shortly before 2.00 am on 29 September 2019. 
The transaction record presented by Monzo shows Mr Rs card was entered into the 
machine, the correct PIN was entered, and Mr Rs card was removed from the 
machine.
- The information provided by the ATM provider shows no error code was recorded for 
the transaction  instead a successful code was recorded. The transactions before 
and after the payment were recorded as successful. And the tally recording the 
number of notes left in the machine was also correct after the transaction.
- The information shows the ATM was re-filled a few days later and there was a £20 
deficit. Although the deficit represents the total balance compared to the expected 
balance for all the withdrawals that took place between refills, if £250 had not 
dispensed, its likely there wouldve at least been a surplus recorded.
- There was no increase to the tally of rejected notes between Mr Rs transaction and 
the next transaction, so it was unlikely any notes went into the ATMs purge bin.
Given the above, I find its more likely than not that the £250 payment did dispense from the 
machine. I note the investigator concluded that the cash mightve been taken by someone 
else after it dispensed, but, even if this happened it wouldnt mean Monzo are liable for that 
persons actions.
Mr R has asked whether Monzo would be prepared to offer him some compensation as a 
goodwill gesture, given the loss he says he suffered. But I wont be requiring Monzo to pay 
him any redress to resolve this complaint because I find its more likely the ATM payment 
was successful. I dont think that would represent a fair and reasonable outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman