DRN-3395285
The complaint
Mrs N complains Sainsburys Bank Plc wont reimburse funds she lost when she fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
Mrs N was looking for an investment opportunity online. She was cold called by a trading 
business called 10 Trading, with an investment opportunity. She built up a rapport with the 
agent when discussing holidays, private education and other things she could spend profits 
on. 
Mrs N decided to invest; the transactions were as set out below:
Date Merchant Amount
7 June 2018 EW*Trading £935.30 + £25.72 transaction fee
7 June 2018 EW*Trading £1,869.10 + £51.40 transaction fee
7 June 2018 EW*Trading £1,869.10 + £51.40 transaction fee
7 June 2018 EW*Trading £1,869.10 + £51.40 transaction fee
Total £6,542.60 + £179.92 fees
There was also an additional payment made on 14 June 2018, but this was recredited back 
to the account in July.
Mrs N realised something was wrong when she tried to take profits from her investment, but 
these were constantly declined. And then the trader disappeared altogether.  She raised a 
chargeback claim with Sainsburys for a return of the funds. Sainsburys declined to raise a 
chargeback as it said it was out of time and that she didnt have evidence the trading 
account hadnt been funded. It also said Mrs N didnt have a valid S75 claim either as the 
merchant paid wasnt the merchant she was trading with and it couldnt establish a link 
between the two. Mrs N complained but Sainsburys stood by its decision. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although he agreed Sainsburys had treated Mrs N 
fairly in relation to the chargeback and the S75 claim, he found it ought to have intervened in 
the third payment as the transactions were unusual for the account. Sainsburys didnt 
initially reply and so the matter was referred for a final decision. 
Sainsburys then indicated it didnt agree. In summary, it has said:
Mrs N had used trading platforms before, and disputed payments made to them. So 
was fully aware of the risks involved with these transactions. It doesnt agree a 
warning from it would have stopped further transactions.
Its not unreasonable for it to assume she had carried out suitable checks on the 
trader before investing. It therefore doesnt agree the transactions were 
uncharacteristic. 
It doesnt believe it should have known 10 Trading was a scam as it wasnt required 
to register unless it was in the UK, which it wasnt. It had seen no evidence it was 
targeting UK customers. The warning issued by the FCA came after the transactions 
were completed. 
It doesnt believe the outcome reasonable. 
Following receipt of these submissions, I needed more information about the previous 
disputed transaction. Whilst Sainsburys has been able to show a payment to Stoxmarket on 
26 March 2018, and it being reimbursed on 23 April 2018, it hasnt been able to provide any 
information about that dispute at all. And Mrs N has confirmed she doesnt recall it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
other payment services providers should execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the 
payer, even if they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank had a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
The payments made by Mrs N were made with her credit. I therefore conclude these were 
authorised payments  for which Mrs N is liable unless there is evidence that Sainsburys 
could and should have done more to protect her, which issue I now turn to. 
Im persuaded Mrs N has fallen victim to a scam. The trader  10 Trading  had an FCA 
warning published about it on 17 August 2018. Whilst this was after Mrs N had made her 
payments, it is only a matter of weeks later, and as such Im satisfied I can rely on this 
information. Mrs N also reports that when she tried to withdrawal funds with was met with 
opposition and the website was finally taken down  these are also hallmarks of a scam. 
Sainsburys is aware of our general approach to its safeguarding and due diligence duties to 
protect its customers. 
Mrs N made a number of payments. But none of them went directly to 10 Trading; rather 
they went to EW*Trading. A clear connection between these businesses hasnt been 
established by either party. In the months leading up to the payments, Mrs N hadnt carried 
out any new spending on her account at all  she was repaying the outstanding debt only. 
So when she started spending on 7 June 2018 that was a change in the operation of her 
account. But the sudden use of a credit card isnt of itself unusual  they are quite often used 
for large infrequent transactions. I therefore agree that the sudden spending in, and of itself, 
isnt unusual such that I would expect Sainsburys to have intervened. 
However, Mrs N was making multiple transactions to the same party in one day. They were 
also to a new payee and were international payments. This can be a common scam 
indicator. Like the investigator, I find the third and subsequent payment was unusual and uncharacteristic such that Sainsburys systems ought to have triggered an alert and the 
payment paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam 
warning. 
Had Sainsburys carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mrs N about the 
payment, I have no reason to doubt she would have explained what she was doing. Whilst I 
accept it had not duty to protect her from a poor investment choice, or give investment 
advice, it could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure as 
far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person  such as 
checking the trader was regulated either here or abroad. 
In saying this, Im particularly mindful that the way this scam came about, with Mrs N being 
cold called by a trader was typical for a scam but not for a legitimate investment opportunity 
and Sainsbury would have more knowledge about that than a layperson. 
I havent been provided with any evidence that Sainsburys intervened before the payment 
was made. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mrs N would have taken heed of a warning from her 
trusted bank and looked into the opportunity further and checked whether the trader was 
regulated here or abroad. Im persuaded an intervention by Sainsburys would likely have 
exposed the scam, and caused Mrs N to stop trading, thereby preventing any losses. So 
Sainsburys should reimburse payments three and four. 
But that isnt the end of the matter. I also need to consider whether Mrs N ought to bear 
some responsibility for the situation in which she finds herself. Sainsburys has referred to an 
earlier payment Mrs N had made to a similar platform which she disputed. And it has argued 
that this meant Mrs N had knowledge of the risk she was entering into. I have considered 
this carefully, particularly as Mrs N was looking for an investment opportunity. And as the 
previous payment also appears to have gone to a trader, this would suggest Mrs N might 
have some experience. 
However, Ive also taken into account that this earlier payment was only a few months before 
those in dispute. And although Sainsburys believes Mrs N knew the risk as the previous 
payment had been disputed, it appears to be making assumptions as to why the transaction 
was reimbursed. I accept the statement refers to the refund as dispute amount but it hasnt 
been able to provide any information as to what that dispute was. So its far from certain its 
because Mrs N believed she had fallen victim to scam. Mrs N doesnt recall what happened, 
which isnt surprising given the passage of time. But it seems to me this could have been for 
an unauthorised transaction or some other such reason, particularly as there had only been 
a month between the payment and the reimbursement. Overall, Im not persuaded this is 
persuasive evidence of Mrs Ns knowledge of risk of trading or scams such that I find it fair to 
make a deduction for contributory negligence. 
Mrs N made a chargeback claim with Sainsburys for the transactions. However, I broadly 
agree with the investigator that a chargeback claim had no prospect of success; particularly 
as it does appear funds were loaded onto a platform. But even if they werent Mrs Ns claim 
was out of time; the service is provided at the point of loading the platform which should 
happen immediately, and it isnt an ongoing service. As Mrs Ns claim was made more 120 
days from the date of her transactions they are out of time. The 540-day limit doesnt apply 
to transactions of this nature and only generally apply if the service isnt expected to happen 
within the 120-day period  for example a holiday or theatre tickets booked sometime in 
advance. In any event, chargeback rights only exist against the merchant paid, but that 
wasnt the merchant Mrs N was trading through or that wouldnt refund her funds or allow 
withdrawals.  Im satisfied Sainsburys didnt do anything wrong in relation to the chargeback 
claim.I have also considered whether Mrs N could have raised a valid s75 claim. But as explained 
by Sainsburys and the investigator, the requirements for a valid claim havent been met and 
neither party has been able to show a link between EW*Trading and 10 Trading. Im 
therefore satisfied Sainsbury dealt with this fairly. 
Finally, Mrs N has sent in some letters which she believes supports her position that 
Sainsburys doesnt pay attention to detail or review things properly. I have considered these 
letters but am mindful they are in relation to a different matter and sent a number of years 
after the transactions in dispute. I therefore dont find them material to my consideration.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Sainsburys 
Bank Plc to:
Reimburse the third and fourth payments, and associated transaction fees to Mrs Ns 
credit card account. 
Pay 8% interest on any credit card repayments Mrs N made towards the balance 
arising from those disputed transactions and any associated interest and charges. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman