DRN-2710134
The complaint
Mr and Ms K complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made on a 
legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms K hold legal expenses insurance provided by Aviva. Handling and administration 
of claims on the policy are handled by a representative for Aviva. Where I reference Aviva in 
this decision, it includes this representative who was in contact with Mr and Ms K.
Mr and Ms K hired a contractor to carry out works to a property they own. They are seeking 
to claim on the legal expenses insurance policy following a dispute with the contractor.
Mr and Ms K complained that the claim has been handled poorly by Aviva. They are 
unhappy with delays to the assessment of the claim. Theyve also been sent invoices 
totalling over £13,000 by a solicitor (who Ill refer to as A) which they say Aviva should pay 
as part of the claim.
Aviva rejected their complaint, and so Mr and Ms K referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that Aviva had acted reasonably. As Mr and Ms K didnt accept this, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
Im aware that there are additional matters, which have occurred since Aviva issued its final 
response to this complaint, which Mr and Ms K have complained about. Those have been 
referred to our service and considered separately. I wont comment on the other matters 
within this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Ms Ks position is that they spoke to Avivas helpline and following 
this they understood that their claim was covered and that all legal costs after they incurred 
from that point would be covered by the policy. But I can also see that following that initial 
contact, they were sent a form to be completed and returned in order for the claim to be 
assessed. Ive also seen Avivas notes from what appears to be this call and from this 
theres no indication that cover for a claim was confirmed, but rather Mr K (who called) was 
given advice and advised to call back if further advice or guidance was required. An email 
was also sent 10 days later saying that the claim had been referred for review. When Mr K 
sent the completed form and supporting information, he doesnt appear to have said that 
hed been told that the claim was covered, or questioned why the form and information was 
being requested. 
On balance, I cant agree that theres enough evidence to show that Mr and Ms K were told 
that the claim was covered in their first contact with Aviva.
Having received this information, Aviva informed Mr and Ms K that it would appoint one of its 
preferred solicitors to take the matter forward (in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions). This solicitor didnt have the correct credentials to be able to proceed with Mr 
and Ms Ks claim. When this was pointed out, Aviva sought to appoint a different solicitor 
who did have the correct credentials. 
Although the policy only usually allows for a policyholders own, preferred solicitor (A) to be 
appointed once legal proceedings have started, Aviva said on this occasion it would cover 
As costs rather than its panel solicitor, subject to the agreement of its standard terms by A.
Mr and Ms K say that they didnt insist on using A, but that this arose because both of the 
panel solicitors suggested by Aviva werent able to deal with their claim. While I agree that 
they didnt insist on this, I dont agree with the characterisation that the only reason this was 
their preferred option was because of the lack of suitability of Avivas preferred solicitors. Ive 
seen emails sent by Mr and Ms K to Aviva in which they indicate, from the outset of 
solicitors appointments being discussed that they would prefer to continue to use A.
An email sent after the first solicitors were mentioned (before it was established that they 
wouldnt be suitable), said that Mr and Ms K would prefer to continue to use (A), the 
solicitors we contacted for preliminary advice. This position was reiterated a few days later, 
after Aviva offered to appoint alternative panel solicitors.
Having looked at this, I cant agree that Avivas initial appointment of unsuitable solicitors 
has had any detrimental effect on Mr and Ms K. Its apologised for this error, and I dont think 
it need do any more here. Its clear from the contact between Aviva and Mr and Ms K during 
this period that their preference was for A to continue to act on their behalf. Aviva agreed to 
this. 
I appreciate that the dispute Mr and Ms K are in is causing them a very significant amount of 
distress and so they want the claim to be progressed urgently and action taken quickly. But 
from what I can see, the majority of Avivas actions have been taken within a reasonable 
timeframe of receiving information or requests. There is a service level agreement that, on 
receipt of information or an enquiry, Aviva will respond within five working days. I can see 
that this, for the most part, happened here, particularly around the appointment of the 
solicitors. Its also important to take into account that the claim was made during the period 
of Covid-19 restrictions which had a detrimental impact on Avivas ability to respond to every 
enquiry within the service level agreements. I know that Mr and Ms K think that Aviva took 
too long to respond to their queries and contact, and I can see that they were sending very 
regular requests for updates and progress, but in the circumstances I dont think Aviva have 
unnecessarily or unavoidably delayed the claims progression.
In respect of the invoices totalling in excess of £13,000 which A has sent Mr and Ms K. The 
policy terms and conditions which say that it wont be liable for any costs which are incurred 
before cover for a claim is confirmed. Mr and Ms K say that all of the costs being sought by 
A are in respect of work done after Aviva agreed to its appointment.
Avivas position here has remained consistent. It said it will consider the costs being sought 
by A once it received confirmation of what these costs were for, and that Mr and Ms Ks 
claim enjoys reasonable prospects of success. I think this is a fair position. Its reasonable 
for an insurer to want to review that costs its said to be liable for are covered by the policy. 
And on the face of it, a significant portion (in excess of £5,000) of the costs being sought by 
A would not have been incurred after Aviva agreed to its appointment as the invoice is dated 
before Aviva had any contact with A. 
Mr and Ms K also say that Avivas assessment of whether it would cover these costs was 
unnecessarily delayed and disadvantaged them. They point to Aviva not appointing counsel to assess whether the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success until several months 
after it agreed to appoint A.
This policy, in line with many legal expenses insurance policies, requires that in order for a 
claim to be covered, it needs to have reasonable prospects of success. What happened here 
was that Aviva asked A to complete this, and agreed to fund the costs A incurred in doing 
so. But for various reasons, this wasnt completed in a reasonable timeframe and A said it 
wouldnt be able to do so without further, expert opinion. Aviva then agreed to appoint 
independent counsel to carry out an assessment. Mr and Ms K say this should have been 
done from the outset.
I dont agree with Mr and Ms K. The process followed here by Aviva, in asking A to carry out 
the assessment is in line with what Id expect to happen. And when this wasnt possible, its 
sought to appoint someone independent who could. As the policy says that in case of a 
dispute about the prospects of success, a counsels opinion may be sought, Avivas taken a 
reasonable course of action in seeking such an opinion as the first stage in the assessment, 
in order to seek to expedite matters.
I dont think theres enough evidence, on balance, to say that Avivas actions here have been 
unreasonable, or that its caused unavoidable delays. 
  
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman