DRN-4166502
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the information given by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited when
she called to claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Bs car was damaged in an accident with a third party, so she called Admiral to report 
the accident. As Admiral thought Mrs B wasnt at fault for the accident it referred her to an 
Accident Management Company (AMC) to deal with her car repairs and organise a hire car 
rather than claiming on her policy with Admiral. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with the quality of repairs and so complained. Upon finding out she 
hadnt used her motor insurance policy Mrs B complained to Admiral about being referred to 
the AMC. Admiral reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said Mrs B had been given 
the option of claiming on her policy or using the AMC. Mrs B didnt agree and referred her 
complaint here, she said shed had to sign up to a credit agreement for the hire car and that 
it wasnt made clear that she would have no come back against Admiral should the work not 
be acceptable. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that while 
Admiral had given Mrs B the option of claiming on her policy or using the AMC, it hadnt 
explained the options to her clearly. In particular he thought the information given about the 
AMCs regulation was misleading and that the implications of using the AMC had been 
understated. He thought if Admiral had clearly explained the options to Mrs B she wouldnt 
have used the AMC. And, as Mrs B now had issues with the repair which they were having 
to have corrected with the AMC, that Admiral had caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience she shouldnt have had if shed claimed on her policy with Admiral. Because 
of this, our investigator recommended Admiral pay Mrs B £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor referral.  
Admiral didnt agree. It said Mrs B was given the option of claiming on her policy or using the 
AMC. And by using the AMC she wouldnt have to pay her excess and could get a like for 
like replacement car while hers was being repaired. 
As Admiral didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Admiral referred Mrs B to the AMC it was obliged to provide her with information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mrs B contacted Admiral to tell it about her non-fault claim for damage to her car, Admiral
ought to have provided her with clear information about her options, so she could decide 
how best to proceed with getting her car repaired.
Ive listened to the call between Admiral and Mrs B when she was referred to the AMC. In 
the call Admiral says: 
The first option is that you can use a non-fault service which is provided by a separate 
company called [AMC name]. [AMC name] will look to arrange the repairs to your vehicle at 
one of their approved repairers. Like ourselves [AMC name] are regulated by the FCA and in 
the unlikely event that you make a complaint not all can be escalated to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service but instead to an alternative dispute resolution scheme, so if you 
choose to use the non-fault service through [AMC name] there wouldnt be an excess for you 
to pay. The other option you have is you can make a claim from your own policy but the 
excess would be payable then at a later stage if the third party accepts liability then we can 
make a recovery of our costs, your excess can be claimed back
After some discussion on how claims work and the difference between the vehicles Mrs B 
could have using the AMC or under her own policy the advisor says: 
With the first option like I say its a non-fault so we go directly to the other persons insurer 
and essentially look to claim the money back from them
From listening to this call, while I agree it gives the option of using the AMC or claiming on 
the policy, Im not satisfied Admiral did enough to give a balanced referral and provided 
clear, fair and not misleading information. I say this because Admiral doesnt advise it wont 
be responsible for the actions of the AMC, and even use the phrase we when referring to 
them. Admiral also dont let Mrs B know shell need to enter into a credit agreement with the 
AMC for its services. Also, when letting Mrs B know the AMC is regulated Admiral didnt 
mention that the AMC isnt regulated for the repairs to Mrs Bs car. Im therefore not satisfied 
Admiral did enough in this call to provide Mrs B with sufficient information for her to make an 
informed choice on whether to use the AMC. 
Ive therefore looked at the impact this has had on Mrs B. I understand Mrs B has said she 
wouldnt have agreed to be referred to the AMC if shed known she would have had to enter 
into a credit agreement, or that she was stepping outside of her regulated insurance 
contract. Mrs B has also mentioned the issues with her car following the repair. I understand 
that the AMC is willing to support Mrs B with sorting the repairs to her car. However, due to 
the poor referral, Mrs B does have distress and inconvenience. I say this because she has to 
get the issues with the repair sorted and wasnt aware of the implications of using the AMC 
when she was referred to them and finding this out has caused her additional unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. To compensate her for this Im satisfied £400 is a fair and 
reasonable amount for Admiral to pay for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
referral. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs B £400 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman