DRN-2372151
The complaint
Mr R complains about the interest rate that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as The 
Woolwich) have charged on his Mortgage Current Account (MCA) Reserve. He believes he 
was mis-sold the MCA, as he says when he took out the mortgage, he was told the MCA 
Reserve would be charged on the same interest rate as the mortgage. Hes unhappy that 
this hasnt been the case  as the MCA Reserve has been on Barclays standard variable 
rate (SVR), whereas his mortgage is on a lifetime tracker rate.
Mr R also complains about how Woolwich have treated him more recently. He said hes 
applied to re-mortgage with them, but his applications have been declined.
What happened
In 2008 Mr R took out a mortgage and a MCA with Woolwich. The mortgage offer states that 
the mortgage was on a lifetime tracker rate (0.74% above Barclays base rate). 
Mr R told us that in 2009 he started to experience financial difficulty following changes in his 
job. As a result, he started to draw funds from the MCA Reserve. He said he noticed the 
interest charged on the MCA was higher than what he was paying on his mortgage, so he 
complained to Woolwich about this at the time. He said he couldnt find any of the 
documents from the sale of the mortgage, so didnt have proof of what was agreed. So when 
Woolwich told him the rate he was being charged was correct, he didnt take the complaint 
any further.
In 2019 Mr R was close to having paid off his main mortgage balance, but still had around 
£11,000 outstanding on his MCA. He told us he applied to re-mortgage this debt with 
Barclays, but he was declined. Hes also had difficulty re-mortgaging with other lenders.
Mr R said he recently found his mortgage offer, and so complained to Woolwich again. 
Woolwich said the MCA had operated on Barclays SVR correctly, and this information was 
contained in Mr Rs statements every year. They also said that he should seek independent 
financial advice about his options to repay the outstanding balance on the MCA.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service, but Woolwich didnt give us consent to consider it. 
I issued a decision which said that our service didnt have the power to consider Mr Rs 
complaint about the sale of the mortgage, as it had been made outside of the time limits. But 
I said our service could consider Mr Rs complaint about the interest hes been charged on 
the MCA since July 2013 (within the last six years of the complaint being made), and also his 
complaint about how Woolwich were treating him in regards to the outstanding MCA 
balance.
Our investigator considered the merits of Mr Rs complaint points that had been made in 
time. Having done so, she explained that she didnt uphold the complaint. She said whilst the 
information regarding the interest rate charged on Mr Rs MCA could have been clearer, she 
didnt think hed been charged the wrong rate. She was also satisfied Woolwich had treated 
Mr R fairly when attempting to collect the outstanding MCA balance.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Have Woolwich applied the correct interest rate to Mr Rs MCA?
Ive looked carefully at all the documents both parties have provided which set out how both 
the main mortgage account, and the MCA should operate. I note the mortgage offer clearly 
sets out the interest rate applicable to the main mortgage account. But there is no mention of 
the interest rate that will apply to the MCA Reserve, should it be used by Mr R. The 
supplementary mortgage conditions set out in the offer document simply state that if you 
have a MCA Reserve, interest will be added to this account monthly.
My understanding of the way this account was set up, was such that there was no separate 
overdraft limit agreed for the MCA Reserve. But as this was a flexible mortgage, Mr R had 
the opportunity to draw down on capital repayments he had already made to the main 
mortgage, and these funds would form the overdraft balance, which was also secured 
against his property. So the total borrowing (excluding interest) across both the main 
mortgage and the MCA Reserve could not exceed the original amount lent. 
The flexibility of this type of mortgage and MCA Reserve meant that the option was there for 
Mr R to use the Reserve facility after hed already begun to make mortgage repayments, but 
there was no requirement to. And this wasnt additional borrowing that was applied for and 
lent by the bank each time he wanted to use it. So at the time Mr R took the mortgage, there 
was no balance owed on the MCA Reserve.
Having looked at all of the sales documents, as well as the full terms and conditions of both 
the mortgage and the MCA that applied at the time, its disappointing to see that the interest 
rate that would apply to the MCA Reserve, should it be used, is not clearly set out anywhere. 
Its clear that interest is charged, but it doesnt say what rate it would be charged at. 
Mr R says that the mortgage offer infers the same interest rate would apply across both the 
main mortgage, and the Reserve account, but I disagree. I think its clear that the mortgage 
offer relates to the main mortgage account only  and that the MCA Reserve is a different 
account, with different terms and conditions.
Ive already set out that I cant consider whether Mr R was given the correct advice, or 
information about the interest rate when he was sold this mortgage in 2008. And I feel that 
this really is the crux of Mr Rs complaint, as he said the interest rate applicable to both 
accounts was the main reason he decided to take this mortgage. Mr R has provided detailed 
comments about the sale, and also referred to the regulators rules that set out the 
requirements of lenders when selling mortgage products. But whilst Ive read his 
submissions thoroughly, Im unable to comment on them within the scope of this decision.
However, I have thought about the information Mr Rs been given since the sale, as I still 
need to decide whether hes been charged the correct rate of interest.
Ive looked at both the statements for the main mortgage account, and also the MCA that 
were sent to Mr R each year. The statements from the main mortgage say under the 
heading important information: Additional borrowing drawn down from the Mortgage 
Current Account Reserve is charged at the Woolwich Standard Variable Rate except for Offset mortgages where interest is charged at the Offset mortgage rate. It doesnt state 
exactly what rate the Woolwich Standard Variable Rate was at the time, but Im satisfied that 
its clear that a separate rate would apply (unless it was an Offset mortgage, which Mr Rs 
was not).
The MCA statements do have a breakdown of the amount of interest applied each month. 
As well as what the rate was at the time. So Im satisfied Woolwich made it clear to Mr R 
what the interest rate was he was paying on his MCA Reserve, and Ive not seen anything 
to show that this rate was charged incorrectly. Also, in Mr Rs own testimony hes told us he 
was aware of the rate in 2009, as thats when he first complained about it. So whilst I 
appreciate Mr R is unhappy he wasnt made aware of the interest rate hed be charged on 
the MCA Reserve before he agreed to take it out, Im satisfied Woolwich have charged him 
the correct interest rate, and told Mr R what this rate was in his statements.
How Woolwich have treated Mr R more recently
Mr R was due to repay his main mortgage balance in 2020, but at the time he complained 
there was still an outstanding balance on the MCA of around £11,000. I have seen the 
contact notes for the account which suggest Mr R was planning to repay the outstanding 
balance using his pension, but its unclear whether this has now happened or not.
The contact notes for the account do show that there were discussions between Mr R and 
Woolwich about how this amount would be repaid in early 2019, and that Mr R wanted to 
discuss additional borrowing. But its unclear from the notes how far the conversation went, 
and Woolwich have confirmed that no formal application for additional borrowing was made.
The terms and conditions of the MCA state that when the mortgage account is repaid the 
MCA will be closed, and any amounts outstanding on the MCA Reserve must be repaid. So I 
think its reasonable that Woolwich were expecting the outstanding balance on the Reserve 
account to be repaid when the full mortgage was redeemed. However, I would also expect 
Woolwich to act fairly and reasonably in how they pursued Mr R for this amount, taking into 
account his circumstances and what he could afford to pay.
Since Mr R told Woolwich he was planning to clear the Reserve amount using his pension, 
at the time he complained Woolwich had accepted this and hadnt started any collections 
activity. So Im not persuaded they were treating Mr R unfairly in how they expected the 
account to be repaid. Theres no evidence to suggest Woolwich or Barclays declined an 
application for a re-mortgage, and the notes suggest they were allowing Mr R time to find a 
way to repay the funds.
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Im not persuaded 
Woolwich have applied the wrong interest rate to his MCA, or have treated him unfairly. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman