DRN-3026068
The complaint
Mr I complains that Tesco Personal Finance (Tesco) have held him liable for debit card 
transactions that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr I held a bank account with Tesco. On 30 July 2018 Mr I credited his account with around 
£9,000. On 31 July 2018 several debit card transactions were authorised using his card 
details. These totalled just under £9,000 and were all made to merchants who provide online 
trading accounts. 
The same day Mr I contacted Tesco as he didnt understand why his balance was so low. 
When Tesco explained the pending transactions, Mr I reported them as fraud and said he 
didnt recognise any of them. Tesco blocked Mr Is card and agreed to start an investigation 
into the disputed transactions, they said their fraud team would call him back. 
Around half an hour later Mr I called Tesco again. This time he said he recognised the 
transactions and that he had made some investments, and he asked whether the pending 
transactions could be stopped. The agent explained that pending payments cant be 
stopped. 
The following day Mr I called Tesco and again said that he didnt recognise the transactions 
and that he hadnt made them after all. He also confirmed he hadnt shared his card details 
with anyone else. 
Tesco investigated  this involved contacting one of the merchants who confirmed the 
account the payment had been made towards was in Mr Is name and that many of the 
details used were the same. Ultimately Tesco held Mr I liable for the payments. 
Mr I disagreed and complained. When Tesco maintained their position the complaint was 
referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should 
be upheld. She concluded that Tesco had acted fairly and said they didnt need to do more. 
Mr I disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons:
I dont find Mr Is testimony to be credible. He changed his mind twice in two days 
about whether he recognised the transactions without a plausible reason for doing 
so. On one of the calls the agent listed each transaction and Mr I confirmed them to 
be genuine. 
Mr Is account was credited with an amount similar to the total of the disputed 
payments shortly before they were made. 
Tesco have evidenced their investigation found Mr I was linked to at least one of the 
merchants involved in the transactions he was disputing. 
Mr I hasnt provided an explanation as to how someone other than him obtained the 
card details required to authenticate the payments. 
Overall, I dont think Tescos conclusion that Mr I authorised the transactions he is disputing 
is unreasonable or unfair. I dont think they handled this matter poorly or there is more they 
ought to have done. And as such, Im not going to direct them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman