DRN-3249083
The complaint
Miss C complains about the poor work done by the approved repairer used by EUI Limited 
(trading as Admiral Insurance) when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy, plus 
EUIs poor general service and delays.
What happened
Miss Cs car first went to the approved repairer on 8 February 2021. It was returned three 
times for rectification. In March 2021 the car was assessed by a dealership garage, which 
found that one of the remaining issues was accident or repair related. Miss C then reported 
an issue with the cars front wheels. EUI offered her £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience in its final response letter of 11 May 2021. It also asked an independent 
engineer to review the car.  
The independent engineer issued a report on 1 June 2021. He found a dozen accident or 
repair-related faults with the car. EUI and Miss C struggled to find a dealership garage that 
would carry out rectification work, but firm B agreed to do it in late June 2021. Firm B found 
more faults  but there was then a delay with authorisation of the work until 2 August 2021, 
causing Miss C to have to chase firm B, the independent engineer and EUI. Parts had to be 
ordered, and the work wasnt signed off by the independent engineer until 11 October 2021. 
Shortly after Miss C got the car back, a warning light appeared - and she also found a nail in 
one of the tyres, which had to be replaced.
In its second final response letter dated 22 November 2021, EUI agreed that the approved 
repairers work was poor, and that Miss C had to chase it for updates often. It accepted that 
it had given the independent engineer the wrong details of how to access the car, which 
caused a delay. EUI also accepted that Miss C had to make many calls to the various parties 
that shouldnt have been necessary - and that she was given a contact number for it that 
didnt work. It offered her a further £200 compensation, plus £25 for the cost of calls. It also 
offered to refund £257 for the new tyre shed bought. And it said if the warning light error 
wasnt a warranty issue it would review it. 
Miss C wasnt happy with the offer, so one of our investigators reviewed her complaint. She 
thought EUI should pay Miss C a further £700 for distress and inconvenience, making 
£1,000 in total. She said Miss C had been told that one of EUIs  managers would assist her, 
given the previous poor communication on its part, but that didnt happen. So Miss C had to 
continue to chase for progress. And although she was given a hire car, the investigator 
thought shed still faced a lot of inconvenience, plus the loss of the use of her prestige 
vehicle over a period of nine months, whilst paying finance and other costs on it. 
EUI agreed that extra compensation should be paid. It offered a further £400. As Miss C 
wasnt happy with that, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EUI hasnt disputed that Miss C faced a great deal of distress and inconvenience over a long 
period, or that much of it was caused by the repeated poor service provided by its approved 
repairer. The continuing poor communication and errors on EUIs part  which it has also 
accepted  only added to Miss Cs frustration and upset. EUI has tried to put matters right by 
offering Miss C compensation, but taking everything into account, I think a further sum for 
distress and inconvenience would be appropriate.  
Ive taken into consideration that Miss C wasnt without a car during the nine-month period 
before the repairs were finally signed off  and that EUI gave her the benefit of the doubt 
when refunding the cost of the tyre. I know Miss Cs unhappy that shes had to pay all the 
costs associated with her car, despite not having the use of it. But the car had to be taxed 
and insured throughout the period (and the replacement cars Miss C drove were taxed and 
insured). The GAP insurance on her car had to be paid in case it was written-off during that 
time. And the cost of the cars lease wasnt due to any failing on EUIs part. I dont think it 
can be held responsible for any of these costs.
  
Miss C would always have been without her car for some time, purely as a result of the 
accident. There was a fair amount of damage, and parts had to be ordered. A referral to a 
dealership garage would always have been necessary, as checks had to be done there. I 
think Miss C is unlikely to have had the car back quickly even if all had gone well. And she 
would always have faced the general inconvenience thats unavoidable when a claim is 
made and repairs are necessary. But I think Miss Cs car was away from her for much longer 
than can be justified. I think she faced far more than an average amount of distress and 
inconvenience from that, and from the poor service she got from the repairer and EUI.
In my opinion, the sum awarded in compensation should first of all reflect the time and effort 
Miss C put in by chasing the various parties in an attempt to progress the claim. Having seen 
all the notes and correspondence, I think its understandable that she felt she was managing 
the claim herself. I think Miss C was hugely disappointed and frustrated by the poor service 
from the approved repairer and EUI, and later by not getting the promised help from EUI. I 
think she felt exhausted from having to battle on for so long. And naturally she was upset by 
the loss of enjoyment of her car for such a protracted time. 
 
£1,000 is a substantial sum in compensation, but I think it reflects the fact that Miss C faced 
a substantial amount of distress and inconvenience. The investigator said EUI had already 
offered her £300, so a further £700 should be paid. But insurer Bs file shows that after EUI 
offered Miss C £100 in its first final response letter , it offered her a further £100 (£50 for a 
failing in its process, plus £50 for poor case handling) on 19 May 2021. If thats correct, EUI 
has already paid Miss C £400, and it will be able to provide evidence of that. If so, EUI 
should pay a further £600 to Miss C to make up the £1,000 compensation payment.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require EUI Limited (trading as Admiral Insurance) to pay Miss C £1,000 in total for distress 
and inconvenience  so a further £600 if it can show Miss C that it paid her the £100 it 
offered her on 19 May 2021 - or a further £700 otherwise. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman