DRN-3054959
The complaint
Mr P complains through a representative that he was wrongly advised by Mercer Limited 
(Mercer) to transfer out of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and into a Section 32 
with a pension provider.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case 12 August 21. In it I set out the background and 
my provisional findings. For completeness Ive included this below and it forms part of this 
decision.
In April 1989 Mr P was advised, by a firm Mercer is now responsible for, to transfer out of 
his OPS and into a Section 32 buyout.
In 1992 Mr P took early retirement from the Section 32 at age 43. Mr P was paid a tax-free 
cash sum and his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) would become payable at age 65 in 
2013. 
At some point before January 1995 Mr P raised his unhappiness about the transfer with 
Mercer. In response (in January 1995) Mercer agreed to review the transfer early and under 
phase 1 of the Pension Review.
Mr P chased Mercer for updates through 1995 to late 1996. In these he complained that the 
advice was unsuitable (Mr P was also unhappy as he felt his employer had forced him to use 
Mercer and not his own choice of adviser) as he said hed had to stop working due to ill-
health. And he didnt think this was considered at the time of advice.
Mercer provided their Pension Review result and response to Mr P in January 1997. This 
said that there was no loss  and it agreed to send a copy of the calculations to Mr P.
Mr P called Mercer in early 1997 to say hed received the review. He wanted to know when 
hed receive answers to his other concerns  such as Mr P felt he could have taken benefits 
straight away from the OPS. Mr P wanted a response in writing as in the event he wasnt 
satisfied hed have hard evidence to take to the Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman 
Bureau (our predecessor scheme).
Mr P received a response from Mercer and then there are no further records of contact 
regarding the transfer. (Until Mr P complained via his representative about the transfer 
recently).
I can see that Mr P wrote to the provider of the Section 32 in 2009 seemingly to ask about 
what benefits had been paid from the policy. And it confirmed Mr P had received a tax-free 
cash sum of £5,237.73 and the GMP pension would become payable in May 2013.
More recently Mr P complained via his representative about the transfer.  Mercer said the 
transfer had already been considered under the Pension Review. And it wouldnt look at it 
again.
The complaint was referred to this service and Mr Ps representative said the review in 1996 
was invalid. He said it shouldnt have been done on an Actual Loss basis and rather a 
Prospective Loss basis. He said Mr P had not been paid his pension until just after his 65th 
birthday which was the retirement date of his OPS.
Mr Ps representative also said that other mistakes had been made in the loss calculation. 
The management and policy fee charges had been valued at 0. Meaning that the calculation 
hadnt met the requirements set out under the Pension Review. And therefore it should be 
reconsidered under the current Pension Review specifications.
Mercer told us it didnt consent to us considering the complaint. It said it had been made too 
late  as Mr P knew of his reasons to complain in 1995-1997. And it had responded to these 
points then. Therefore Mr P had complained more than six years after the event and three 
years after hed known he had cause for complaint.
Our investigator looked into matters. He concluded the complaint had been made in time. He 
said it was reasonable to assume the review may have put an end to Mr Ps belief that he 
had cause for concern then. And it was only when it was pointed out to him later by his 
representative, he had cause for complaint.
The investigator then went onto explain hed considered the merits of the complaint but he 
didnt think it should be upheld. He said the transfer had been reviewed fairly under the 
Pension Review. He said the review had been carried out by actuaries and firms carrying out 
the reviews had external checks carried out on them  and therefore he thought it was likely 
correct.
Mercer disagreed and said it didnt consent to the complaint being looked at and asked for a 
decision on the jurisdiction. It produced evidence that Mr P had been aware of his cause for 
complaint across 1995-1997 and therefore it felt the complaint should be time-barred.
Mr Ps representative disagreed with the investigator on the merits. He said it was clear the 
calculation wasnt correct and it shouldve been done on a Prospective Loss basis. And 
because it hadnt been done correctly it should now be reviewed under FG17/9.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to consider is the jurisdiction and whether we can consider the 
complaint as Mercer believe it has been made out of time.
Has the complaint been made out of time?
This service doesnt have jurisdiction to look at every complaint. The Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints rules (DISP) set out what we can and cant look at and can be found online in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook.
The relevant time limits are set out in DISP 2.8.2R which says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint unless the complainant referred the 
complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within that period and has a written 
acknowledgment or some other record of the complaint having been received.
Mr Ps complaint relates ultimately to the transfer in April 1989 and Mr P raised his complaint 
with Mercer sometime before January 1995  so within six years. 
Its a little difficult to ascertain the exact sequence of events but sometime before January 
1995 Mr P seems to have become aware he had cause for complaint. Possibly due to 
publicity around the Pension Review  or possibly he was made aware by Mercer. I say this 
because in his letter to Mercer in 1995 he seems to be responding to some information 
regarding the possibility of a Pension Review.
Mr P then wrote to Mercer a number of times outlining his unhappiness with the advice and 
clearly making a complaint. Mercer said it would add him into the first phase of the Pension 
Review. And after that had been completed they would respond in more detail.
The review was then carried out and the result of the review was that there was no loss. 
However, Mr P continued to contact Mercer after this result, Mercer provided a response and 
then the paper trail goes quiet. Seemingly Mr P was either satisfied with the response or he 
simply failed to take matters further.
However, in terms of our jurisdiction, Mr P had referred his complaint within time in 1995 and 
this stops the clock. It doesnt appear that Mercer provided a response which would meet the 
DISP rules definition of a final response  and therefore Mr Ps complaint appears not to be 
out on six months either. Its questionable whether the Pension Review result would count as 
a response to a complaint (although in this situation it is inextricably linked with Mr Ps 
complaint). However, in any event Mercer didnt provide any timescales to submit the 
complaint to the PIAOB so under our rules this wouldnt count as a final response.
I appreciate why Mercer may feel the complaint should be out of time. Mr P does appear to 
have known about his causes for complaint for some thirty years now  and he doesnt 
appear to have done anything more about it until now. But our jurisdiction isnt a matter of 
subjectivity  and under our rules Mr P made a complaint within 6 years of the event 
complained of and this stopped the clock. And so he isnt out of time to bring this matter to 
us.
This service can decide not to consider a complaint that is within our jurisdiction. The 
grounds for dismissal for complaints that have been brought to this service post 9 July 2015 
are set out in DISP 3.3.4A. One of those grounds is if dealing with such a typeof complaint 
would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An example of what this might be is set out in DISP 3.3.4B which says:
Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(2) where the subject matter of the complaint has already been dealt with by a comparable
dispute resolution scheme
However, there is no evidence that Mr P took his complaint to the PIAOB despite indicating 
he would. I think its likely if he did, Mercer would hold details of this correspondence as it wouldve formed part of their Pension Review file. And so I dont think to consider this 
complaint now, would seriously impair our effective operation.
So provisionally Im minded to say the complaint has been made in time and is within our 
jurisdiction to consider.
I appreciate Mercer doesnt consent to us looking at the merits of the complaint. But as Ive 
explained based on what Ive seen so far Im (provisionally) of the view that the complaint is 
within our jurisdiction. And I think I have enough information to give a provisional decision on 
the merits of the case.  If after issuing this provisional decision, Mercer provides arguments 
or evidence that ultimately changes my view of the jurisdiction, then the merits wont be 
considered further.
Should the complaint be upheld?
Both parties agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this 
situation. And for the avoidance of doubt, I think it was the correct way to address the 
transfer back in 1996. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer  it is not required to 
look at the matter again. Providing the review addressed the circumstances of the complaint 
and had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance. I think this represents a fair and 
reasonable position when considering this complaint.
Mercers position
Mercers position is that it has already considered Mr Ps transfer in-line with the SIB 
Pension Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past 
Business  Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators 
thereafter. And so, it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again. 
Mr Ps representatives position
Mr Ps representative says that the review in 1996 wasnt carried out correctly as it was done 
on an Actual Loss basis rather than Prospective Loss and therefore is invalid. And should 
now be re-done but instead using the updated FG17/9 review guidance.
Was there a mistake in the original review?
To consider this, Ive looked at what the relevant guidance says about carrying out a loss 
assessment under the Pension Review.
SIB Pension Transfers and Opt Outs: Review of Past Business (the SIB Review): 
Part II: Specification of Standards and Procedures 
1: This Specification sets out the procedures to be followed in the pension transfer 
and opt-out review outlined in SIB's Statement of Policy. It sets out the standards to 
which firms should work and gives guidance on how they should apply judgement 
when undertaking the exercise. It should be read in the light of SIB's Statement of 
Policy.
405 There are two types of possible loss:(a) Actual financial loss: When an event (such as death or retirement) has already occurred 
giving rise to benefits and the benefits from the personal pension are less than those the 
occupational scheme would have conferred.
(b) Prospective financial loss: Where the investor (or his/her spouse or dependants) is 
exposed to the probability of an actual financial loss when an event such as death or 
retirement occurs in the future.
406 The reviewer should test for either actual financial loss or prospective financial 
loss, depending on whether or not the investor has died or retired at the date of the 
review. It should not be necessary to test for both.
411 When: Test for loss as at the date of crystallisation ie death or actual retirement - 
including early retirement.
PIA Guidance for Review of Past Business 1995 (Transfers - Guidance on Technical Matters 
- Actual Loss Assessment, p120-121) (my emphasis):
3. Date of Crystallisation
Where the event is retirement, the date of crystallisation is the date with effect from 
which the pension first commenced from the personal pension. The date of 
crystallisation is used to determine the benefits valued in the loss assessment
5. Investor Options
Where the investor has exercised an option e.g. to retire early or to commute part of 
his pension for cash at retirement and equivalent options were available under the 
occupational scheme it should be assumed that the investor would have taken 
equivalent action to satisfy the same needs had he not transferred.
In the case of early retirement at an age not normally allowed by the scheme 
trustees, the value used should be the value of occupational scheme benefits that 
would have been available had the investor not transferred. Alternatively, a fair 
approximation to the benefits the scheme might have allowed on early retirement 
may be used
Mr P had already prior to the Pension Review crystallised his benefits within the personal 
pension in 1992. This gave rise to tax-free cash paid from the non-protected rights and set in 
stone the GMP (paid from Protected Rights) which would become payable from age 65.
It was this date that Mercer valued the benefits from the Section 32. Whilst Mr P wouldnt 
receive his GMP until 65, once Mr P crystallised his fund I understand there was no fund left 
with the provider. The annuity payable was set in stone  to be paid from 65. So in essence 
Mr P no longer had a Section 32 policy. He had an annuity which had commenced from the 
policy  it just wouldnt become payable until later. There would be no further growth/loss, no 
further charges  no change in annuity rates. The policy had vested. Therefore Mr Ps 
Section 32 was valued at the date of crystallisation. And therefore I think it is logical that this 
is the valuation date used and this is in line with the Pension Review guidance.
Furthermore, the actuaries when checking the calculation noted that this should be 
considered Actual loss as there is no partial vesting. And therefore the calculation date is the 
vesting date in 1992 for the benefits previously held within the personal pension (Section 
32).With regards to valuing the OPS benefits. Its actuaries noted that Mr P wouldnt have been 
able to retire early from the OPS at the same date as Mr P crystallised his benefits within the 
personal pension. So under the Pension Review guidelines the OPS benefits should be 
valued at what they wouldve been had Mr P not transferred or a fair approximation of what 
the benefits wouldve been had the OPS allowed early retirement. It was decided to value 
the OPS benefits at what they wouldve been worth at the earliest date Mr P couldve taken 
retirement without any reduction - valuing the OPS benefits prospectively at age 60.
Under prospective loss the SIB specifications say that the OPS retirement date should be 
the earliest a member couldve retired without reduction for early retirement.
PIA Guidance for Review of Past Business 1995 (Transfers - Guidance on Technical Matters 
- Prospective Loss Assessment pg 123.
2. Date of Retirement
Since trustees' consent is technically required but not normally withheld, the 
definition of retirement age should be taken as the earlier of Normal Retirement Age 
and the earliest age the member could have retired without company consent and 
without reduction for early retirement.
So Mercer valued Mr Ps OPS benefits on a prospective loss basis at age 60. The notes on 
its calculation check say that this is the earliest date that the OPS scheme wouldnt apply an 
early retirement factor.
After considering the above, it seems apparent that the method used by Mercer to calculate 
Mr Ps loss was in line with the Pension Review guidance.
Mr Ps representative argues that all the benefits shouldve been valued prospectively but 
this clearly isnt correct under the Pension Review guidelines.
Mr P had crystallised his benefits under the Section 32. This was done early due to ill health. 
Mr Ps representative has told us that Mr P was in good health at the time of advice  and 
has no recollection of taking benefits in 1992. However the evidence from the time doesnt 
support this  including letters from Mr P to Mercer saying hed had to leave his employment 
due to ill health and hed not returned to work. He also told them hed moved address as he 
could no longer get up stairs. All the pension providers documentation weve received shows 
that Mr P took his benefits early in 1992. Mr P also contacted the provider in 2009 and it 
confirmed the benefits had been taken in 1992. So it appears to me that Mr Ps recollections 
have faded over time but Im satisfied Mr P took benefits early in 1992 from the Section 32 
due to ill health.
The result of the calculations was that the Section 32 benefits were valued at £23,247.48  
this presumably being the value of the GMP plus the tax free cash already taken in 1992. 
Whereas the estimated cost of providing the OPS benefits at retirement (age 60) was 
£21,050.74. Therefore there was no loss  or a gain to Mr P at the time.
The Pension Review calculation process requires someone with professional actuarial 
experience. I can see that the calculation was audited at the time by an external actuarial 
service who passed it as satisfactory  and it appears any questions raised were considered 
before completing the review. And later in 2002 a review was carried out (Im unsure by 
whom) and it was considered the case could be closed and that early retirement and a 
transfer value increase (between the advice and the transfer occurring in 1989) were the 
main reasons for no loss. The ombudsman service is not a checking service, we do not employ actuaries to check 
Pension Review calculations. However, I have considered the information we do have  and 
endeavoured to understand what Mercer and their actuaries did at the time and why. And 
Ive then compared that with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, I think the calculation 
was done in line with the guidelines set out under the Pension Review  and therefore was 
likely correct. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Mercer needs 
to look at this matter again.
Mr Ps representative also raised further questions about the review  as to why no 
additional costs had been added to the valuing of the personal pension for management and 
policy fees. Its my understanding that this is because there were no further fees to be added 
as Mr P had already crystallised the policy at the time of review.
My provisional conclusions
The complaint has been made within time and is one that we can consider. However, based 
on the evidence presented by both parties and the relevant guidelines, I do not think this 
complaint should be upheld.
I consider that the review has already been carried out in line with the standards applicable 
at the time and I can see no fair or reasonable reason, nor any reason under the relevant 
guidance, to say that Mercer needs to do more here.
Mr Ps representative had nothing further to add. And Mercer Limited said it agreed with the 
merits outcome reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party commented further regarding the merits and therefore my decision remains the 
same as set out in my provisional decision (and repeated above).
In conclusion, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint as it has already been considered fairly by 
Mercer when it completed the Pension Review in line the standards applicable at the time.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman