DRN-3462329
The complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) wont refund her on items she returned 
to a merchant.
What happened
Miss F is a customer of Barclays. In August 2020, Miss F says she purchased multiple items 
from a merchant using her debit card, in two separate transactions. The first transaction was 
for around £1,445 and the second transaction was for around £870. 
Miss F says the parcels were delayed and arrived damaged. So she returned the items and 
asked the merchant for a refund. Miss F says she received an email from the merchant 
saying they received the items and that they would process the refunds in due course. She 
says she only received a partial refund for the items returned.
In October 2020, Miss F logged claims with Barclays to receive a refund on the difference 
between the initial amounts she paid and the partial refund she received.
On one of the claims Miss F had made relating to the transaction of around £1,445, Barclays 
say they contacted her in October 2020 and asked her for a copy of a refund receipt, credit 
note or proof from the company that a refund is due.
Miss F says she didnt believe Barclays had contacted her and so she contacted them again 
in November 2020 to request an update on her claims she made. Miss F says the following 
day she received contact from them requesting proof of postage which she says she then 
provided.
Miss F says Barclays told her the information was provided too late for a claim to be 
successful. Miss F was unhappy that Barclays failed to keep her updated on the progress of 
her attempted chargeback claims and that they now say she is out of time for a claim to be 
successful.
Miss F, unhappy with Barclays, referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
requested further information from both of our customers in order to complete his 
investigation. He found that Barclays didnt need to do anything further as the chargeback 
claims were unlikely to have been successful given the evidence Miss F had supplied.
Miss F asked for her complaint to be escalated and so it has been passed to me to decide 
on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
A chargeback is a voluntary process run by a card scheme, like VISA. It is intended to 
resolve settlement disputes without the need to resort to a more formal resolution. Examples 
where a chargeback may be appropriate are where goods never arrived or the merchant 
never provided them, or where the merchant was supposed to give the customer a refund 
but didnt.
Before a card issuer, like Barclays, can initiate a chargeback, wed generally expect to see 
that the cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the merchant first.
Miss F has provided an email response from the merchant where it apologises for the refund 
amount not being correct and that they will investigate further. Miss F has also provided an 
email of the merchants response where they say they had issued refunds for all the items 
they received back. So, for the purposes of these chargeback claims, I am satisfied that Miss 
F has queried and raised with the merchant the issue of not receiving a full refund from them 
and attempted to resolve matters with them first.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company that Miss F paid can defend any 
chargeback claim. When that happens, Barclays can pursue it further through the 
chargeback scheme.
Barclays didnt need to raise chargebacks if its clear Miss F would have lost. For example if 
there is little or no evidence for Miss F to back up her claim. But I would consider it good 
practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and where there is a 
reasonable chance of recovery.
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather its decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Ultimately, its the card 
schemes guidelines and Barclays has no power to change them. So Ive thought about 
whether Barclays fairly applied the guidelines when declining the chargeback requests.
Barclays main reason for declining to pursue the chargeback claims are that it was made out 
of time. Barclays say they contacted Miss F when she raised a claim in October 2020 and 
asked her for a copy of a refund receipt, credit note or proof from the company that a refund 
is due. I have seen a copy of this letter which is dated and addressed to Miss F. Within it, I 
can see it clearly states:
We need this information within 7 days from the date of the letter so we can carry on with 
your dispute.
The Card Scheme Provider (VISA) sets a time limit for refunds from the merchant so it is 
really important that you send the documentation back to us
Miss F says she hadnt been contacted by Barclays and so in November 2020, she 
contacted Barclays and she says it is then when they requested this information. I have no 
reason to doubt this letter was sent to Miss F but I also accept I cant be sure it was sent 
successfully.
Miss F has provided an email which suggests she responded back to Barclays in November 
2020. So it is possible Miss F raised the claim in time and provided Barclays with the 
information required to allow them to carry out their investigation. However, this isnt enough 
for a chargeback claim to be successful and doesnt guarantee a refund.Miss F has been able to provide evidence of a transaction to the merchant. It shows she 
purchased multiple items of clothing. She has also been able to provide a receipt of items 
being posted back to the merchant in August 2020, a few days after her transactions. But it 
isnt clear whether all or some of the items purchased were sent back. Miss F has also 
provided screen shots of an email from the merchant where they say they had processed 
refunds to two orders and to expect to receive these within a few working days. From Miss 
Fs bank statements provided by Barclays, I can see two refunds from the merchant for £304 
and £444.50. 
It isnt clear from what has been provided whether some or all of the items were returned. In 
this instance, and considering the lack of information provided by Miss F, I think it is more 
likely than not some of the items of clothing were returned which would account for why the 
merchant had only provided a partial refund. And I also think it is reasonable for Barclays to 
not pursue things further through the chargeback scheme, following the information 
provided. Because of this, I think it is difficult to conclude Barclays acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining to proceed with the chargeback claim.
I think Barclays decision not to raise chargeback requests was reasonable as the 
information it gathered suggested they were unlikely to have been successful.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require Barclays 
Bank Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman