DRN-2859480
The complaint
Ms W complains in her capacity as a director of, and on behalf of, limited company W. 
Ms W complains about a decision taken by Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business 
(Simply Business) to not release to her information she requested it do so under a data 
subject access request (DSAR).
What happened
Ms W was looking for insurance cover for W and so approached Simply Business. However, 
Simply Business said it was unable to assist her, or W.
Following Simply Business confirmation that it was unable to offer cover (with any insurer on 
its panel) Ms W submitted a DSAR. 
Simply Business considered Ms Ws DSAR and said it was prepared to provide what she 
was looking for and had asked for. But before it could, or would, do so it needed sight of 
identification from her.
Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that:
Any complaint about a breach of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by 
Simply Business would need to be taken up with the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO).
Given Ms W hadnt supplied Simply Business with a suitable form of identification it 
hadnt acted unreasonably in refusing to provide the information she had requested 
under her DSAR.
Ms W didnt agree and so Ws complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Like the investigator Im satisfied that any complaint about a breach of GDPR by 
Simply Business needs to taken up with the ICO.
The investigator concluded that Simply Business had acted reasonably in asking Ms W to 
provide identification and I agree.
Regardless of whether Simply Business initially agreed, or Ms W understood Simply 
Business had initially agreed, to send the information she was after without anything further 
from her, Im satisfied that Simply Business was ultimately entitled to decide that it required 
identification from Ms W before doing so.
Secondly, regardless of what the ICOs view on this particular issue might be, Im satisfied 
that the requirement for identification to be provided in cases such as this is a legitimate 
commercial decision for Simply Business to make and one that it would be neither fair nor 
reasonable for me to interfere with. Im also of the view that what Simply Business has asked 
Ms W to do isnt a particularly difficult or onerous thing for her to have to comply with.
Finally, I would add that just because a business is prepared to provide or share information 
with an individual over the phone when quoting, or looking to quote, for new insurance 
business doesnt mean it cant later insist on identification from that individual before 
providing in writing that same information (and/or further information) under a DSAR. 
I would also reiterate what Simply Business has already said on this point and that is 
because only the person/company named on a quote has an insurable interest the insurance 
industry doesnt tend to see people taking out insurance policies in somebody elses name. 
In other words, the risk of breaching rules, regulations and the law when providing or sharing 
information with somebody whilst quoting for insurance is different to that posed when 
providing an individual with information in writing under a DSAR.
Given what I say above Im not persuaded that in the particular circumstances of this case 
Simply Business has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman