DRN-3062182
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) is holding her responsible for 
an overdrawn balance in a joint account that she was unaware of.
What happened
Mrs Y says she received a letter from RBS in 2020 about a joint account between her and 
her deceased ex-husband asking her to repay the balance of over £1,000. She says she 
divorced in 2012 and that her ex-husband passed away in 2015. Mrs Y doesnt recall the 
account being opened and says it ought to have been part of her ex-husbands estate. She 
says RBSs actions have caused distress.
RBS says the account was opened in 1999 and is joint account. It says it wasnt told of Mrs 
Ys ex-husbands passing away in 2015 but was told in 2020. RBS says as the account was 
joint then both parties are jointly and severally liable for the balance. It says Mrs Y would 
have received statements and says both parties would have had to agree to being removed 
from the account. It also says it will reduce the balance to £475 and has offered to back date 
a default to 2015 which would have the effect of being immediately removed from Mrs Ys 
credit file.
Mrs Y brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought this was a joint account and so Mrs Y was responsible for the balance. And didnt 
think there a record of either party asking to be removed from it. The investigator thought 
RBSs offer appropriate and fair.
Mrs Y doesnt accept that view and questions how she could have known the account wasnt 
sorted out as part of the divorce and says it should be the estate that deals with the balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs Y will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate her concern and 
shock to receive the demand for money after so many years. But I dont think RBS has acted 
unfairly for the reasons I will explain.
Im satisfied that having looked at RBSs records that this was a joint account set up in 1999. 
In those circumstances Im also satisfied that both parties to the account are liable for the 
balance and on the passing way of one party, as in this case, the other is responsible for the 
balance. I also think it likely that Mrs Y would have received account statements until at least 
2012.
Im satisfied that RBS was unaware of the Mrs Ys ex-husbands passing away until 2020 
and, in those circumstances, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the delay in contacting Mrs 
Y.
I appreciate Mrs Y questions why the account wasnt closed as part of her divorce and if the 
estate should be responsible for the balance. I agree with Mrs Y they are valid questions. 
But they are not matters RBS has any influence on. I think Mrs Y will need to ask her divorce 
solicitors why this account wasnt closed or included as part of the divorce or why an 
application wasnt made to remove her name from it. I also think it the responsibility of the 
executors of an estate to have told RBS about the passing away of Mrs Ys ex-husband. And 
I accept the RBS balance may be part of that estate but that is something Mrs Y will need to 
take up with the executors.
Overall, Im satisfied that RBS has acted fairly here by writing to Mrs Y and telling her that 
she is liable for the account balance as she is a joint account holder. Im also satisfied that 
RBS has fairly agreed to reduce the balance. Mrs Y will have to take up the other matters 
she raises with her solicitors and the executors and no doubt ask them why they took five 
years to tell RBS about her ex-husbands passing away. If Mrs Y wishes to take up RBSs 
offer, then she will need to contact it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman