DRN-3658432
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Experian Limited reporting a county court judgement (CCJ) on 
his credit file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a CCJ that was registered by the county court in late 2021. The 
CCJ was registered under a known alias of Mr Ks. It matched his personal details exactly, 
except for one letter that had been added to his name.
Mr K disputed the CCJ with Experian. They looked into things and found that there was no 
one other than Mr K who the details on the CCJ could relate to. They explained that they 
didnt own the data, the court did, and they couldnt change it without the courts permission. 
They gave Mr K the details for the county court so he could dispute things with them.
Mr K came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr K didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that our service is an informal alternative to the courts. We are not allowed 
to make findings on what a court has done or overturn court decisions. In this decision, I can 
only consider what Experian have done.
I should also explain that Experian do not own the data on Mr Ks credit file. The firms who 
provide the data are the ones who own it. And Experian are not allowed to change the data 
without the data owners permission. So in this case, its the court who owns the data about 
the CCJ, and Experian cant change it without the courts permission.
Of course, when Mr K raised his concerns with Experian Id expect them to look into it. But 
they did that. And it would be one thing if Experians system had made an error or if the 
details on the CCJ clearly related to someone else, but thats not the case here. Experian 
are correctly reporting the raw data that the court gave them, and there does not seem to be 
anyone who the CCJ could relate to other than Mr K.
The CCJ was registered under a known alias of Mr Ks, with only one letter being added to 
the name. The date of birth was an exact match, as was the address  which was also 
confirmed as being Mr Ks. Experian looked to see if theres anyone else this could relate to, 
but found that theres no one else with similar details who this CCJ could be about. The only 
person they found it could link to is Mr K.
Since there was no error on Experians end, and since they cannot change the data without 
the courts permission, and since the details the court provided are a strong match for Mr K 
and do not seem to match anyone else, it seems reasonable that Experian have continued 
to report the CCJ on Mr Ks credit file.
Ultimately, Im afraid that Mr Ks dispute is much better directed towards the court. There 
was only so much Experian could do, and only so much our service can consider when a 
court has already made a judgement. Its the court who made the judgement, and who 
registered the CCJ, and who own the entry on Mr Ks credit file, and its the court whose 
consent is needed to change that entry.
As I explained above, I cannot say whether the CCJ was valid and proper or not  I dont 
have that power. If Mr K disagrees with the CCJ, for example if he thinks someone else took 
out the account in his name, then he needs to dispute it with the county court. I can see that 
Experian gave him their details. Wed generally recommend seeking legal advice before any 
court action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint about Experian Limited.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman