DRN-2574310
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account without notice or reasons. Mr G would 
like compensation for not being able to access his account.
What happened
Mr G had an account with Revolut.
In November 2019 Revolut conducted a review of Mr Gs account and asked Mr G to confirm 
the source of his funds.  He provided Revolut with the extra information on 
22 November 2019.
Despite providing some information Mr G s account remained blocked. 
Mr G complained to Revolut. They said they were reviewing his account in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. 
Revolut required further documents which Mr G was unwilling to produce.
Revolut explained that during the review Mr G was able to access his funds but would be 
unable to add funds to the account until the source of funds was suitably confirmed.
In 17 January 2020 the account was unblocked. Following the unblocking of the account 
there were technical issues which meant Mr G couldnt transfer funds out of his account.
As Mr G was unable to transfer his funds out of his Revolut account he used ATM machines 
to withdraw the funds and incurred ATM withdrawal expenses.
Mr G has requested compensation of around £1,500 in his local currency which includes 
ATM withdrawal fees of around £721 and 8 % interest from 15 November 2019 to 
28 January 2020, 74 days for not being able to use the money in his account- equivalent to 
around £738. He has also claimed the Revolut premium plan fee of around £73.
Mr G has also said that his messages were not answered on the chat. And he requested that 
his account be closed.
Mr G complained to Revolut. They said they were entitled to review his account and ask for 
confirmation of source of funds. Revolut said that the reason for Mr G not being able to 
access his funds after the account was unblocked was due to a technical issue on their part. 
Revolut agreed to refund the premium fees as well as an extra 6 months worth of premium 
fees for the technical issues experienced by Mr G. Revolut said they had offered Mr G 
£128.91 as compensation. They said Mr Gs account had less than a pound left in the 
account in foreign currency.
Mr G was unhappy with the offer.
Mr G complained to our service in December 2019. One of our investigators reviewed the 
case, he said he didnt think that Revolut had done anything wrong when they reviewed Mr 
Gs account. He didnt think Revolut should pay any compensation as he didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. 
Mr G was unhappy with our investigators view. He wanted financial compensation and also 
an Ombudsman to review the case. He told us that despite asking Revolut to close his 
account they failed to close it.
As there was no agreement the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Gs account.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which includes the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, establish the 
purpose and nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship.  Revolut has 
said that Mr Gs account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Mr G has said he wanted to know why his account was blocked and wanted to be given 
notice of this. 
Whilst I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Revolut relied upon, Im satisfied that Revolut was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Gs account. So, I cant say it has done anything 
wrong. The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account also permit Revolut to block an account. 
Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Revolut acted in line with them. 
I know Mr G wants Revolut to explain the reason it blocked his account. And I can 
understand Mr Gs frustration that he hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as the 
investigator has explained, Revolut is under no obligation to provide this information to him, 
as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Revolut has done anything wrong by not 
providing this information to him. 
Mr G has said he would like financial compensation for the time the account was under 
review. He has mentioned that he lost out on some investments. I appreciate that the timing 
of the review may have been inconvenient to Mr G but as Revolut have done nothing wrong, 
I wont be asking them to compensate Mr G for the lost investment opportunities.
Mr G has said he lost out on the use of his money and would like 8% interest. Ive 
considered his request but looking at the evidence I can see that Mr G had access to his 
funds during the review as he was using the ATM to withdraw cash from the account, so I 
wont be awarding him any compensation as I can see he did have access to his funds.Mr G has also requested that he be refunded the ATM fees he incurred when he accessed 
his money. Mr G was able to access his money during the time the account remained 
blocked and he withdrew money from his account during that period by using an ATM 
machine.  It was Mr Gs choice to access the money when he did and Im satisfied he knew 
that he was incurring ATM charges with each withdrawal as he has used his account for 
some time and agreed to the terms and conditions, so I wont be asking Revolut to refund 
him these fees.
After the account was unblocked Mr G experienced technical issues when he tried to set up 
a transfer of his funds. Revolut have said that the transfers remained inaccessible because 
Mr G was not able to provide them with the documents they needed. As Mr G continued to 
be able to withdraw money from his account using the ATM despite the technical issues, Im 
satisfied he had access to his money.  Revolut have provided Mr G with what I consider to 
be a reasonable amount of compensation for this issue, so I wont be asking Revolut to pay 
anything more.  
Customer Service
Mr G has said that Revolut didnt answer his chat and he is unhappy with the customer 
service he has received. I have read the chat exchange and Revolut did answer Mr Gs 
chats although they were busy sometimes. I think Revolut and Mr G were negotiating on 
what documents could be provided and were acceptable to both parties during the review. 
Its not unreasonable that Revolut needed time to consider the paperwork/information Mr G 
provided - and I can see this will have resulted in some delay in replying to Mr G. On the 
whole I dont think Revolut have given Mr G bad customer service so, I wont be asking 
Revolut to increase their offer of compensation.
Revolut have offered Mr G £128.91 as a refund for the premium account fees and the 
technical difficulties he experienced and a gesture of goodwill. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way to settle Mr Gs complaint. So, I wont be asking Revolut to do anything 
more. I simply leave it up to Mr G to contact Revolut if he still wants to take advantage of the 
offer from them.
Mr G has said that his account hasnt been closed despite him asking for it to close. Revolut 
have told us that there is less than £1 in the account at the moment. I suggest that If Mr G 
want his account closed, he should contact Revolut directly to arrange for the remaining 
funds in the account to be transferred to an account of his choice. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr G feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating time. I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Revolut has acted unreasonably and treated Mr G 
unfairly when it reviewed his account. I think the offer of compensation made by Revolut is 
sufficient based on what Ive seen so I wont be asking Revolut to pay anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman