DRN-4060795
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss T opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in December 2020. Her account limit 
was initially set at £500. Her credit limit was increased once in May 2021 to £950.
Miss T says that Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to her. She says that she was in financial 
difficulty and Studio Retail should have done more to find out if the credit was affordable for 
her. 
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss T  and when it 
increased her credit limit.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Ts complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Miss T was acceptable, but that when her credit limit was increased 
to £950 Studio Retail didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so. 
Our adjudicator said that Studio Retail should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Miss T.
 
Studio Retail didnt agree. It said that Miss T met its lending criteria and none of her account 
activity indicated any financial pressure or material financial difficulty.
As Studio Retail disagreed, the case was passed to me to make a decision. I came to a 
different decision to the adjudicator. I wrote to both parties to explain my provisional decision 
and invited comments from them both. Studio Retail didnt respond. Miss T provided a full 
copy of her credit file and some further comments which I address in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Miss Ts complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ts income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
When Miss T opened her account in December 2020, Studio Retail has told us there were 
no obvious signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. It didnt ask Miss T for 
any financial information but instead it used data from external sources to make its decision. 
Having reviewed the checks, I think there was a reason for some minor concern - one of 
Miss Ts other revolving credit accounts had recently been in arrears for one month. But I 
dont think this alone suggests that it would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to 
have approved the account. The rest of Miss Ts financial information appeared to provide 
no cause for concern. She was apparently managing other debt well, she had no defaults, 
County Court Judgements or bankruptcies on her record. Her overall indebtedness was 
relatively low. The modelled data showed that she had no housing expenses, which tallies 
with what Miss T has said about living at home with her mother. Affordable repayments on 
the account, if she had utilised her entire credit limit each month, were around £25 a month. 
On the information available to Studio Retail I think it was reasonable for it to consider that 
Miss T could affordably repay the credit it offered her. 
Our adjudicator took a different view and considered that it would have been proportionate 
for Studio Retail to have found out more about Miss Ts committed expenditure, such as her 
living costs. Although we have different opinions about this, it doesnt make a difference to 
the overall outcome of the complaint. I say this because our adjudicator looked at what 
Studio Retail might have seen if it had done those further checks and concluded that it 
wouldnt have made a difference to its decision to lend to Miss T.
Where my opinion does differ to our adjudicator is in relation to the credit limit increase 
Studio Retail provided to Miss T in May 2021.
 
Our adjudicator thought that it would have been proportionate for Studio Retail to have 
verified Miss Ts financial circumstances, perhaps by requesting copies of her bank 
statements. Had it done so, our adjudicator thought that the information Studio Retail would 
have seen would have stopped it providing the additional credit.
 
I think that such a move would have been excessive in the circumstances. But I do think 
Studio Retail ought to have at least asked Miss T about her income and expenditure. I say 
this because from its own checks it noted that the affordability of the credit limit increase was 
high risk and her utilisation of her credit was high. The new sustainable repayments on the 
increased credit limit were around £50, which was a significant amount of the disposable 
income Studio Retail had assessed Miss T had. 
I cant know for sure what Miss T would have told Studio Retail if it had asked at the time. 
Miss T told us about her expenditure at the time and it seemed from what she told us that 
she had onerous financial obligations. She also provided her bank statements from around 
the time of the credit limit increase, but these didnt show all the expenses she told us about. 
Our adjudicator noted that she had regular PayPal transactions and asked about these. Miss 
T explained they were for gambling transactions. She also explained that some large 
transactions were from friends and family to help her with her committed expenditure. For 
these reasons our adjudicator thought that if Studio Retail had seen this information it 
wouldnt have fairly increased her credit limit.
While I do not agree that Studio Retail ought to have gone as far as to ask to see bank 
statements before it gave the credit limit increase, I think the bank statements give a good 
idea of what it would have found out if it had at least asked Miss T about her income and 
expenditure. This is where I parted company with our adjudicators assessment of what Studio Retail would have found out.  Having reviewed the bank statements I cannot be 
satisfied that all the PayPal transactions were for gambling (although some of them were). 
Miss T appears to have few outgoings for essential expenditure such as rent, council tax or 
utilities. There are regular transfers between Miss Ts own accounts and those of friends and 
family, but they are generally small and there is no evidence of lending to Miss T from most 
of the recipients. I can see that there were payments to two payday lenders, but at the time 
of my provisional decision I didnt know what she had borrowed or how long she needed to 
pay for them. There is significant spending on non-essential items and Miss T was not 
overdrawn.
 
From the bank statements, it would seem that Miss T did not have any notable financial 
difficulties. I asked Miss T to provide a full credit report because that may have helped me 
understand the extent of her external borrowing and how she was managing that debt as 
she has said that she was missing payments to her creditors around that time. However, 
Miss T did not supply this before I issued my provisional decision. Miss T did provide it 
following my provisional decision and Ive looked carefully at this. However, based on what I 
have seen this doesnt change my mind. 
The credit file shows the two payday loans that I mentioned seeing in Miss Ts bank 
statements. Both had been taken out in the month that the credit limit was increased, so may 
not have had time to show on Studio Retails checks. They were for small amounts over a 
short period. Miss T was not in arrears, and she had no defaults. Her external lending was 
relatively low (including two credit cards with credit limits not exceeding £250 each). I am 
satisfied that if Studio Retail had asked Miss T about her income and essential expenditure 
that it would not have considered that she was over-indebted. 
So, on the basis of what I have seen, I cant fairly say that if Studio Retail had completed the 
checks I think were necessary and proportionate (that is, asking Miss T about her income 
and essential expenditure), that it found anything to indicate it should not have lent more to 
Miss T. On this basis I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint as I dont think Studio Retails Limited acted unfairly when 
it extended credit to Miss T. Studio Retail Limited does not need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman