DRN-3329292
The complaint
Mr J complains about the charge for excess mileage that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after he voluntarily terminated the 
hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 January 2022 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Finance that he signed in March 2017. The car had a price of £38,551, Mr J 
paid a deposit of £5,602 so the amount of credit was £32,949 and the total amount 
payable was shown on the agreement as £43,274.76. Mr J agreed to make 48 
monthly payments of £502.87 for the car to be supplied to him. If he wanted to 
purchase the car at the end of the agreement hed have to pay an optional purchase 
payment of £13,525 and a purchase activation fee of £10.
The agreement said that Mr J had the right to terminate the agreement and that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total 
amount payable under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being 
£21,637.38). Mr J voluntarily terminated the agreement early in September 2019 and 
he returned the car. He was then charged for excess mileage by Mercedes-Benz 
Finance.
He complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the excess mileage charge and 
said that it isnt entitled to charge him for excess mileage under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. Mercedes-Benz Finance said that the obligation to pay an excess mileage 
charge if the agreement was voluntarily terminated was set out in the agreement and 
that the mileage allowance had been re-calculated in line with the length of time that 
hed had the car. It said that the Consumer Credit Act allowed it to determine what is 
considered reasonable condition and that excess mileage has a negative effect on 
the car's value, which isnt reasonable, so it retains the right to charge for excess 
mileage following the voluntary termination of an agreement. It said that the 
outstanding balance of £194.40 remained payable.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that 
this situation has caused him stress and hes received a letter from a debt 
management company.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
The agreement includes wording thats prescribed by regulation about a consumers 
right to voluntarily terminate an agreement and says, under a heading which says: 
Termination: Your Rights:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the 
person you make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of 
the vehicle and to half the total amount payable under this agreement 
(£21,637.38). If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue 
instalments and have taken reasonable care of the vehicle you will not have 
to pay any more.
The agreement also says:
If you return the vehicle to us and have exceeded the total permitted 
mileage, which is based on an annual permitted mileage of 15,000 miles, an 
excess mileage charge of 6.00p excluding VAT for each mile will be payable 
by you for each additional mile exceeding the total permitted mileage.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer 
has to voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due 
on termination. The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess 
mileage charges, are required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall 
be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled 
or authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any 
liability under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. 
If the excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the 
agreement, I consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to make that charge to Mr J.
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you 
return the vehicle to us and have exceeded the total permitted mileage  and the 
excess mileage charge is then calculated on the basis of the cars mileage after it 
has been returned  so it would only be known after the agreement had been 
terminated. For these reasons, I consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance cant charge 
for excess mileage in these circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement 
is terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the 
agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any 
payment, to pay to the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the 
total price exceeds the aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in 
respect of the total price immediately before the termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount 
specified in subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the 
creditor in consequence of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, 
the court may make an order for the payment of that sum in lieu of the 
amount specified in subsection (1).(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the 
goods or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased 
by the sum required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .
Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge the consumer for 
half of the total price of the car under the agreement so, if theyd already paid that 
amount, they wouldnt have to pay anything more. Section 189 of the Consumer 
Credit Act defines total price as  the total sum payable by the debtor under a 
hire-purchase agreement or a conditional sale agreement, including any sum payable 
on the exercise of an option to purchase, but excluding any sum payable as a penalty 
or as compensation or damages for a breach of the agreement....
Section 100(4) allows for the amount payable to be increased if the consumer had 
failed to take reasonable care of the car. The agreement requires the car to be 
returned in accordance with Mercedes-Benz Finances vehicle return standards, 
which are included as part of the agreement, and says that compensation will be 
payable for a breach of that obligation. Thats a separate requirement to the 
requirement to pay for excess mileage.
Theres no requirement in the agreement for Mr J not to exceed the total permitted 
mileage so I dont consider that exceeding that mileage would be a breach of 
contract. I consider that the agreement sets out the maximum mileage that the car 
can be driven before additional charges become payable. Im not persuaded that 
exceeding a mileage limit would be considered to be failing to take reasonable care 
of the car or that the excess mileage charge would properly be considered to be 
compensation for a breach of contract. But Im also not persuaded that any excess 
mileage charge would properly be considered to be included in the total price of the 
car under section 100(1) because the charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated.
I dont consider that the provisions in the agreement that refer to excess mileage 
charges would reasonably be considered to be payable because Mr J had failed to 
take reasonable care of the car and I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance can 
charge for excess mileage in these circumstances under section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to 
the extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive 
set out above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning 
excess mileage charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent 
with the protections of the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are 
void to the extent that they relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is 
voluntarily terminated.
Although Ive reached that conclusion based on the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act, Ive also considered whether the wording contained in the agreement 
would cover a charge for excess mileage being made if the agreement is voluntarily 
terminated. The termination notice thats included in the agreement doesnt refer to 
an excess mileage charge if the agreement is voluntarily terminated. The notice says 
that the consumer can terminate the agreement if theyve paid half the total amount 
payable under the agreement. The total amount payable is clearly set out in the 
agreement but the agreement also refers to an excess mileage charge if the car is 
returned and the total permitted mileage has been exceeded. Theres a conflict in the 
agreement between those provisions - and the specific wording to be included in the 
termination notice is prescribed by regulation.The car could be returned to Mercedes-Benz Finance for a number of reasons, but 
Im only considering it being returned if the agreement has been voluntarily 
terminated. The agreement says, immediately above the signature: This is a Hire 
Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms. I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect a consumer to have read the whole agreement before signing it and, if theyd 
done so, they would be aware of the termination notice and also the excess mileage 
charge.
I consider that the agreement could have been more clearly drafted to specify that 
the excess mileage charge would be payable if the agreement was voluntarily 
terminated and the total permitted mileage had been exceeded. But I consider that 
the excess mileage terms do enough to qualify the termination notice set out in the 
agreement. I consider that the contractual terms of the agreement alone would give 
Mercedes-Benz Finance the right to charge for excess mileage in those 
circumstances.
But, as Ive already said, the excess mileage charge isnt permitted under sections 99 
and 100 so is void and, even though the agreement does provide for an excess 
mileage charge to be added to this amount, I find that its unable to charge Mr J for 
the excess mileage in these circumstances.
Mr J refers to the stress that this situation  and being contacted by a debt collector  
has caused him. I sympathise with him for the difficulties that hes experienced but 
Im not persuaded that an award of compensation for that is justified in these 
circumstances. 
I understand that Mr J hasnt paid the excess mileage charge and has an outstanding 
balance of £194.40. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to now remove the excess mileage charge from his account. If its recorded 
any adverse information on his credit file relating to that charge, I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for it to remove that information.
Subject to any further comments from Mr J or from Mercedes-Benz Finance my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted 
my provisional decision but Mr J hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted my provisional decision and Mr J hasnt 
responded to it, I see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the actions 
described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:1. Remove the excess mileage charge from Mr Js account.
2. Remove any adverse information about that charge that its recorded on Mr Js credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman