DRN-4331097
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Domestic and General Insurance Limited (D&G) who declined her 
claim under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs R purchased a freezer and later a policy that provided cover for any faulty material or 
manufacturing defects, as well as accidental damage. Mrs R made a claim as she said that 
the lining in the freezer became dented. She believed this to be a manufacturing fault. 
D&G  were provided with photos from Mrs R of the damage. After reviewing those photos, it 
declined the claim, as it said that the damage was cosmetic, and this wasnt covered under 
the policy. Mrs R raised a complaint, however, in its final response it maintained its position. 
As Mrs R was given her referral rights, she referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. She agreed with 
D&G that the damage was cosmetic. She said that under the policy cosmetic damage wasnt 
covered, so D&G was fair to decline the claim. She accepted that there was accidental 
damage cover on the policy, but there were policy exclusions, one of which was cosmetic 
damage, so there was no cover for the damage caused to the appliance. 
She also highlighted that the damage was pre-existing as it had been caused before the 
policy inception and on this basis, D&G couldve declined the claim. 
D&G accepted the view. Mrs R did not. She said that the damage was accidental and 
accidental damage was under the policy. D&Gs website was misleading for consumers as it 
indicated that accidental damage was covered. And the damage was accidental, before it 
became cosmetic. She questioned where in the policy it said that pre-existing damage 
wasnt covered.  She said that there was something fundamentally wrong with the appliance. 
And she felt our investigator wasnt impartial and had pre-determined her decision, 
irrespective of the evidence that Mrs R submitted. So, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs R, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. I think the main 
issue of this complaint, is whether D&G was fair to have declined her claim, under the policy 
exclusion of cosmetic damage. 
Mrs R said that she felt that there was an underlying issue with the appliance, which is going 
to adversely affect its use and shorten its lifespan. She felt that this was a manufacturing 
fault or accidental damage. 
Ive had a thought about this, and Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs comments. So, Ill explain 
why. 
Mrs R hasnt provided me with any expert or independent evidence that supports that the 
damage to her appliance was due to a manufacturing fault. So, the evidence is merely her 
opinion. 
Further, Mrs R states that the underlying issue with the appliance could adversely affect the 
use and shorten its lifespan. But our service can only deal with incidents that have 
happened, not ones that havent. So, I dont think Mrs R has provided enough evidence to 
support that the damage affected the working of the appliance. 
Ive next reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what the policy covers. I note that 
Mrs R questioned whether pre-existing damage was covered under the policy. Having read 
the terms and conditions, Im satisfied that it wasnt covered. The policy states: 
Your product must be in good working order when you take out the policy.
Mrs R was aware that when she took out the policy, her appliance was damaged. 
Consequently, D&G couldve declined the claim on this basis as well. 
The policy provides covers for electrical, mechanical failure, as well as accidental damage. 
But there are exclusions on the policy and one of those exclusions is cosmetic damage. The 
policy states: cosmetic damage such as damage to paintwork, dents or scratches; any loss, 
damage (is not covered). So, Im satisfied it gives a definition of what amounts to cosmetic 
damage, namely scratches, damage to paintwork and dents, which wasnt covered. 
D&G said that the damage was cosmetic. Mrs R when she reported the matter to D&G said 
that the damage amounted to dents. She also provided photos and I can see dents on the 
appliance. Im persuaded that this amounts to cosmetic damage. And as Mrs R hasnt 
provided enough evidence to show that the working of the appliance was affected by the 
damage, I think D&G were fair to have applied the policy exclusion and decline the claim. 
In addition, although I understand Mrs R said that accidental damage ought to apply, the 
policy is clear in that accidental damage can only apply, on the basis that the damage is 
such that the appliance is no longer in good working order: accidental damage (so that the 
appliance is no longer in good working order).
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I think the policy terms clearly describes cosmetic 
damage to include scratches and dents. The dents didnt impact the working of the 
appliance, so Im satisfied that D&G fairly declined Mrs Rs claim. 
I acknowledge Mrs Rs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to 
Mrs R. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that D&G acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman