DRN-3171457
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the no claims discount (NCD) applied by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H held her policy for several years. Then in 2019, AXA changed the way the NCD was 
calculated. Mrs H was unhappy about this.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the decision to 
change the way the NCD was calculated was up to AXA, and as this change had been 
applied to other policyholders, he didnt think Mrs H had been treated unfairly.
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy allows the member to buy-back the value of claims made during a policy year, in 
order to build up the NCD to the maximum level of 50% (and in turn keep down the cost of 
the premiums). I understand this is an option that Mrs H previously took up. 
Prior to the policy renewal date in February 2019, AXA wrote to Mrs H to explain it had made 
a change to align how the NCD worked across its products. It provided some information 
about that, and referred her to the policy for further details.
Previously AXA had treated separate invoices for the same medical condition as one single 
claim if they were paid within 180 days of each other. But that was no longer the case after 
February 2019. The change made by AXA meant that the buy-back option became 
unaffordable for Mrs H, which then had an impact on her NCD.
As our investigator has explained, AXAs decision to change the way it calculated its NCD 
was a commercial decision that AXA was entitled to make. This is an annual policy and the 
terms and conditions explain that AXA can change any part of the policy from any renewal 
date.
I agree with our investigator that Mrs H hasnt been treated unfairly, because the change 
was made to all members of that policy who renewed after April 2018.
I do have sympathy for Mrs Hs situation. Shes been receiving ongoing medical treatment 
for her condition, and AXAs change to the NCD means her premiums may become 
unaffordable for her. Despite this, I think AXA was entitled to make the change it did.
Mrs Hs representative says that the policy premiums rise with age, despite what Mrs H was 
told when switching from a group scheme to a personal policy. I cant see that this has been 
raised with AXA as a complaint, and so if Mrs H has concerns about the way in which the 
policy was sold, she would need to raise these with AXA in the first instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman