DRN-3689773
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the information Lloyds Bank PLC has provided her in relation to other 
accounts and services she believes she hold with it.
What happened
Ms H has explained she received contact from Interpol and the National Crime Agency about 
her bank accounts. She holds a bank account with Lloyds, but was concerned about other 
accounts being held or international banking links to her accounts. Due to this she put in a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) with Lloyds Banking Group. 
Lloyds Bank wasnt able to find any additional accounts for Ms H. The DSAR did reveal 
some information linked to Ms H that she didnt recognise for other accounts, but this case 
relates only to her Lloyds Bank account. While I accept Ms H has queries relating to other 
areas of Lloyds Banking Group as a whole, these have been dealt with separately by our 
service. In relation to her Lloyds Bank complaint, it didnt uphold it as it said it had done 
appropriate searches and she held no other accounts.
Ms H brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as 
she was satisfied Lloyds Bank had carried out appropriate searches. Ms H disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
To date we havent received any evidence from Ms H that shows she has additional 
accounts with Lloyds Bank. I have seen the searches carried out by Lloyds Bank and 
these have looked for additional personal accounts relating to Ms H, with the correct 
details, but none can be found.
I accept Ms H believes she received a call from Interpol, which is what started her 
investigation into her accounts. But we havent seen any evidence this call was genuine 
 it doesnt seem to fit with how we understand they would work; or evidence that shows 
she has been the victim of ID theft. 
Ms H also hasnt evidenced any financial losses due to the alleged other accounts or ID 
theft. She has explained how she thinks she may have lost out, but she hasnt shown 
this is the case. So I cant see theres anything for Lloyds Bank to put right in this case. 
Or fairly say it needs to do anything more than it already has. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman