DRN-2667428
The complaint
Mr L complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (Virgin) delayed the transfer of 
his Cash ISA by providing wrong address instructions and that he suffered a financial loss as 
a result.
What happened
Mr L held a Cash ISA with Virgin and wanted to transfer this over to a Stocks and Shares 
ISA with another provider. Mr L completed the transfer request on 23 March 2020 and sent 
this to the address shown on Virgins website.
The transfer request form was not received by Virgin as they have two address  one for 
Cash ISA requests and one for Stocks and Shares ISA requests. The form was forwarded 
onto the correct department on 3 June 2020 and completed on 5 June.
Mr L complained to Virgin as he said missed out on his investments growing in value due to 
favourable markets. They investigated Mr Ls complaint and partly upheld it and offered 
£100. Mr L provided them with further information, and they upheld his complaint and offered 
£8,797.08 which was for the loss that Mr L incurred as a result of the delays.
Mr L did not accept Virgin decision and referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators looked at his complaint. The investigator thought that Virgin had acted fairly 
and reasonably in trying to resolve the complaint and did not think that they needed to do 
anything else. The complaint was not upheld.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr L has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint.
The circumstances behind the complaint are understood by both parties and Virgin accept 
that they should have made it clearer where the transfer request was to be sent. Its not my 
intention to go over these details but I will focus on what Virgin did to try and resolve the 
complaint and compensate Mr L.
In his submission to the service, Mr L says that he suffered a financial loss while the transfer 
request was being processed. As Virgin confirm that the form was sent to the wrong 
address, they agreed to look at any loss of investment opportunity.
Mr L supplied Virgin with calculations from his financial adviser and following this, Virgin 
offered compensation which was like the loss calculated by the financial adviser. Im unable 
to identify from the documentation available to me how Virgin arrived at their calculation, but 
the compensation amounts are broadly similar.
I think that Virgins offer of compensation is fair and reasonable, and I dont think that they 
need to do anything in respect of this part of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L has said that he has not been able to put the compensation amount of £8,797.08 into 
his Stock and Shares ISA as his allowance had already been used. Mr L says as this 
amount should have been in his ISA, he will lose any potential increase in value.
I have considered this part of the complaint and have the following observations:
Mr L used his full allowance for the tax year in question. This means that an additional 
source of funding was used to subscribe to the Stocks and Shares ISA. Had Mr L used 
the compensation amount of £8,797.08 to fund the ISA, the effect would be the same  
the ISA would be fully subscribed for the tax year and he would not have used the 
additional source to fund.
Mr L has not lost any ISA allowance for the tax year and although he used another 
source of funding, this could be topped up with the compensation amount of £8,797.08 
leaving him no worse off.
Mr L says that he has lost out on any future increase as he was unable to fund his ISA 
using the compensation amount. As I have said above, the ISA was fully funded and any 
future increase in investments would be seen within his Stocks and Shares ISA so I dont 
agree that Mr L will suffer any future loss.
In summary, I think that the actions that Virgin took to resolve the complaint were fair and 
reasonable and in line with what the service would ask them to do. I dont think that Mr L has 
suffered any additional financial loss as his ISA allowance was fully funded.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman