DRN-3802634
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc allowed payments he hadnt authorised 
to debit his account.
What happened
Mr B says that payments from his account of £941.99 and £299.90 on 18 November 2021 
werent agreed by him. And that the delay in obtaining a refund meant he had to enter into 
an individual voluntary agreement (IVA).
NatWest said that the payment of £941.99 had been refunded on 6 January 2022 following a 
chargeback and Mr B hadnt complained to it about this. Mr B complained about the payment 
of £299.90 in April 2022 and this was by then outside the timescales for raising a 
chargeback. But it said it refunded this as a gesture of goodwill and paid him £100 for poor 
service.
Our investigator recommended that NatWest pay eight percent simple interest per annum on 
the payments until these were refunded. She didnt think that there was compelling evidence 
to show that these payments resulted in an IVA. That was made for debts far higher than the 
amounts in question here. And the compensation was reasonable.
NatWest said it would pay the further amount to resolve the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that he should have been protected from fraud and this had 
resulted in health issues and financial problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These payments have been refunded so I dont need to make a decision about whether they 
were authorised. NatWest accepts that the time Mr B had spent on the phone about this 
dispute was excessive and that branch staff hadnt dealt with him in the correct manner.
Ive reviewed the information hes provided about his IVA. I can see that on 7 January 2022 
he received confirmation it had been approved. And hes provided information about 
discussions he had about this in December 2021 and that hes been in default with several 
of the named creditors. 
While I dont doubt that not having the disputed money was difficult for Mr B, I dont agree 
that this was the cause of his IVA. As our investigator has said the total amount of the IVA 
was higher than this and related to wider financial difficulties over time. The information to 
show that he could otherwise have avoided an IVA is limited and insufficient.
The person primarily responsible for the initial distress caused by the disputed payments is 
the fraudster involved. And Im looking at how NatWest responded to this. The payment of 
£941.99 was refunded in January 2022. And as Ive said the other payment was refunded in 
April 2022 when Mr B escalated this. I think that the compensation payment made reflects 
the service issues.
NatWest has also agreed to pay simple interest on the payments. Thats because Mr B has 
been deprived of the money. I consider thats a fair resolution here although can appreciate 
Mr B will remain disappointed by the outcome. I also mention that hell need to continue to 
ensure when receiving payments from NatWest he complies with the terms of his IVA.
My final decision
NatWest has now made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision it that National Westminster Bank Plc additionally pay Mr B 
simple interest of eight percent per annum on the disputed payments from the date they 
were debited to the date they were refunded
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman