DRN-1731585
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs R say HSBC Bank PLC (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when neither party is sure how the sale was 
made. And its maybe not surprising thats the case and that has been able to provide much 
documentation from the time. Its maybe not surprising thats the case as these events 
happened over 18 years ago. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows HSBC didnt make Mr and Mrs R aware the PPI 
was optional or failed to secure their consent to the cover. Considering how long ago the 
sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint 
on this point. So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think 
its more likely that HSBC wouldve made Mr and Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and 
that they chose to take it, even though they may not remember that now, many years later. 
HSBC says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. This meant HSBC needed to take 
reasonable steps to find out about their needs and make sure the policy was suitable for 
them. 
I think HSBCs recommendation was right for Mr and Mrs R, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:It seems most likely that Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the policy. And it doesnt look 
like they wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, for 
example, any unusual employment terms or pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs R said theyd have got some sick pay from their employer if they were 
unwell. But they told us these payments wouldn't have lasted longer than six months, 
such that they may have had to rely on friends and family to make their mortgage 
repayments. Mr and Mrs R have told us they had some savings at that time. But Ive 
considered that they chose to protect those savings at that time by not taking a 
smaller mortgage. The PPI policy wouldve covered Mr and Mrs R for up to 12 
months if they couldnt work through accident or sickness, or if they lost a job. And it 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy payment they mightve 
got, and would have further protected any savings they had at that time and reduced 
any reliance they may have had to place on any help their friends or family may have 
been in a position to offer them. So, considering all of this, and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on their home, I think they couldve 
found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable. 
 
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
R.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs R, HSBC also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was 
suitable for them, I dont think better information wouldve stopped them from buying it. 
I know Mr and Mrs R feel strongly and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise 
theyll be disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, and for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of anything HSBC may have done wrong. 
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So HSBC doesnt 
need to refund everything Mr and Mrs R paid for it. 
But HSBC has already offered to give Mr and Mrs R back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman