DRN-4227371
The complaint
Mr E complains St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to explain the tax or 
early withdrawal charge implications when he withdrew all his pensions funds. He was 
wrongly told he could re-instate his pension and as a result he has suffered a financial loss.
What happened
Our investigator set out a detailed timeline of events in his view letter of 6 June 2023.
I have summarised the details below.
In July 2016, Mr E approached SJP for advice to consider switching his three existing 
capped drawdown pension plans from his then provider Aegon. Mr E felt he was receiving a 
poor return on his investments and wanted to look at alternative options. 
On 25 July 2016, SJP issued its suitability letter and recommended he switch all three 
pension plans valued at around £242,827. The suitability letter recorded that to do so, Mr E 
would incur and exit penalty of £3,248. Mr E decided to transfer his plans to SJP.
In November 2016, Mr E requested an additional income withdrawal of £15,000 gross to pay 
towards expenses incurred on a property purchase. 
On 26 November 2016, SJP issued a second suitability letter with regard to the withdrawal 
Mr E wished to make. It explained that as he was already taking the maximum amount of 
income allowable from his capped drawdown pensions for the 2016/2017 tax year it would 
be necessary to convert one of his capped drawdown pensions to a Flexible Access 
Drawdown pension. The suitability report stated that any income withdrawals above the 
annual withdrawal allowance (AWA) of 7.5% of the fund value would incur an early 
withdrawal charge. 
On 12 December 2016, the withdrawal confirmation letter confirmed that £15,000 withdrawal 
had incurred an early withdrawal charge of £151.27 as a result of the amount being over 
maximum AWA allowed.
In March 2017, following a meeting with his SJP adviser, Mr E opted to take further one-off 
withdrawal amounts from your pensions amounting to £30,000 but these were deferred until 
after the start of the 2017/2018 tax year. 
On 11 April 2017, the withdrawal confirmation letter confirmed that an early withdrawal 
charge of £1,406 had been deducted.
In June of 2017, Mr Es circumstances changed, he contacted SJP to inform them he 
needed urgent access to at least £105,000 of your pension funds in order to fund a property 
purchase scheduled for early July 2017. 
On 12 June 2017, SJP issued a letter, confirming his request. It said that to be certain of this 
amount being released, all three of his plans with SJP would need to be fully encashed 
leaving no further pension with SJP. It said the remaining pensions in capped drawdown 
would also need to be converted to Flexible Access Drawdown plans. It quoted early 
withdrawal charges as being £12,668 leaving a taxable income of £198,468. The report also 
went on to explain that as Mr E had already received income in the 2017/2018 tax year, he 
would be liable to higher rate and additional rate income tax on the proceeds leaving a net 
income amount of £114,304.
On 21 June 2017, this letter was re-issued after Mr E contacted SJP to say he hadnt 
received it.
On the 22 June 2017, Mr E contacted SJP to confirm that his house purchase may fall 
through and that he was shocked by the levels of EWC and tax payable on the withdrawal 
and that he would need to consider how to proceed by 26 June 2017. He asked if his funds 
could be re-instated. 
SJP provided the telephone call notes. They showed Mr E spoke with SJP again on 23 June 
2017 and he confirmed he was aware the tax would be around £79,000 and that the full 
encashment may mean he could have more than the £105,000 he required, and he also said 
there was a possibility he may lose his prospective house purchase.
On 23 June 2017, SJP wrote to confirm Mr Es funds had been disinvested and explained 
the early withdrawal charges that had been applied. Subsequently, Mr E was not able to 
complete on his house purchase and requested his funds be re-instated.
In November 2017, telephone call notes from SJP, showed he was unhappy with the early 
withdrawal charges that had been applied. Mr E said he had forgotten about them, and he 
did not agree that the pensions should have been fully encashed. The notes state that Mr E 
said he accepted that he had made a bad decision to encash his pension, but he did not 
raise a complaint at the time.
In September 2022, when Mr E was made aware SJP were not able to re-instate his funds, 
he raised a complaint with them.
Mr E said:
He was not made aware of the charges for transferring his Aegon plan to SJP
He was not aware that withdrawing his money would result in the termination of his 
pension plans with SJP and that this was not disclosed until after his funds had been 
transferred without his permission.
He did not receive the letter dated 12 June 2017 until 22 June 2017 and that he was 
not made aware of the super tax implications. 
SJP had originally told him that his funds could be re-instated.
On 10 January 2023, SJP issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said 
SJP acted on his urgent income withdrawal requests with full permission, and that they had 
explained that they had not caused any significant errors. SJP apologised that they had said 
that a reversal or re-instatement of his funds would be more possible than it actually was and 
pointed out this was due to HMRC rules rather than a decision it took. But it said due to the 
length of time taken to provide its final response it offered £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr E accepted the offer of goodwill without prejudice, but he remained dissatisfied and 
brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr E. On balance he found that SJP had acted on Mr 
Es instructions and had made him aware on each occasion of the implication of his 
withdrawals in terms of both early withdrawal charges and tax. In his view, Mr Es overriding 
concern was to secure his house purchase. He sympathised that this had subsequently fallen through but he didnt agree that SJP had acted unfairly or made any significant errors 
and so he didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed. He made numerous and detailed submissions. In summary he said:
Some of the background points detailed were irrelevant to the complaint and he did not 
understand why they were noted in the investigators view
He has never received a Suitability Letter dated 12 June and as he was not aware it existed; 
he couldnt have contacted SJP to ask where it was
SJP had failed to follow its own procedures and as he had not signed the Suitability Letter 
and returned it SJP did not have his permission to proceed, nor could he have been aware 
of the early withdrawal and tax implications.
In an email dated 22 June Mr E says he asked for information regarding any costs and had 
said when this information was received, he would get back by Monday 26 June 2017 latest.  
I did not receive a response from SJP admin.
Mr E maintains advice should have been offered by SJP  that is what they were being paid 
for.
Mr E asks this service to refer to his online submissions on his complaint form which were:
1. Transfer of funds from my Retirement Account (RA) without his final authorising 
signature. 
2. Inappropriate and Incorrect advice given  specifically he was told monies could be 
reinstated but was then told, six months later after much chasing and worrying, that 
they could not be reinstated. He says SJP have admitted their error in their final letter
3. SJP has not followed its own procedures.
4. Mr E details his initial transfer from Aegon to SJP was £242,827.19 after charges of 
£10,826.20 were made as follows:  £3,248.20 exit fee from Aegon plus  £7,578 
entry fee to SJP. Following one regular annual income withdrawal in March 2017, the 
value of all three plans as of 5 June 2017 was £211,136.
5. His initial enquiry in June 2017 was for £105,000 but SJP local office administrator 
advised me that the Power Planners at head office had advised it best to take a full 
withdrawal.
6. It wasnt explained why but they said it was the best thing to do. It is now apparent 
that this was inappropriate advice because this resulted in SJP applying an Early 
Withdrawal Charge of £8,340.63 in addition to the high
Mr E asks for the following compensation:
1.Payment of £19,340.55 in compensation for the amount of super tax paid unnecessarily.    
He maintains had the monies not been wrongly transferred I would have only had to pay my 
usual tax rate on any future annual income withdrawals. 
2. Payment of £12,668 in compensation for the termination charge of 6% because it was not 
his decision to terminate the plans. 
3. Refund the commission from the initial transfer fee to be repaid to me along with any 
charges taken from the fund during the term it was with SJP, because he did not receive the 
promised appropriate advice and the Senior Partner was unavailable to me on numerous 
occasions. I was therefore paying for something I didnt receive.As Mr E did not agree with the investigators view the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same decision as our investigator, and I 
wont be upholding Mr Es complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment and I 
clearly understand the strength of feeling Mr E has with regard to the decisions he took and 
how he feels other actions could and should have been taken. I will address these in my 
decision.
Its important to say I have summarised this complaint in less detail that Mr E has done and, 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here which is that Mr E feels 
that he was mis-advised into taking withdrawal from his pension which has ultimately led to 
him suffering a financial loss.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr E and by SJP. I have also listened to the telephone conversations 
available between Mr E and this service and SJP.
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
The advice given to Mr E was based on conversations he had with his financial advisor. And 
the recommendations were also presented to him verbally before being documented in the 
suitability reports that Ive mentioned earlier. As there are no recordings of those 
conversations, I have no way of knowing for certain what was said. But the suitability report 
was clearly sent to Mr E and set out the decisions that he later implemented. So, I must base 
my decision on the evidence that remains from the time  namely the documents that SJP 
produced. But I have also considered carefully when they were issued and whether Mr E 
was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of the decisions he was taking and the 
financial implications of doing so.
I have set out the background to this complaint in terms of a timeline of events since Mr E 
transferred his pensions to SJP. I appreciate Mr E doesnt feel that every point is relevant to 
his complaint, but it is detailed both for context and to highlight earlier withdrawals and Mr 
Es previous experience and understanding of the implications of making withdrawals from 
his pension plans.
Initially Mr E had also raised complaint points regarding the initial transfer from Aegon and 
the costs involved in doing so, but he has withdrawn this aspect of his complaint. I have 
listened to the original call between Mr E and this service in which he acknowledges he 
should have read the documents provided and although he doesnt recall all the information 
from the meeting, he accepts he would still have transferred his plans as he felt he was getting a poor return on his investments with Aegon. I have therefore not considered this 
element of Mr Es complaint any further.
I have then considered the withdrawal request in June 2017. SJP have provided the letter 
sent to Mr E dated 12 June 2017.
It says:
Further to our meeting on 13 February 2017 and the recent anniversary of your drawdown 
schemes, I am writing to confirm our discussions regarding your two St James Place 
Drawdown plans and your flexible drawdown plan.
The details of how Mr E should continue to take his income are then set out, but the letter 
goes on to say:
However, a previously unforeseen change in your circumstances means that you now 
require an immediate sum of at least £105,000 after tax and early withdrawal charges have 
been taken into account in order to be able to proceed with a property purchase and you 
wish to take this sum from your pension funds.
And
We calculate that in order to be reasonably certain of receiving this net sum within the 
timescales required by your Solicitor, you would need to fully encash all three of your plans. 
However, this would leave you with no further pension funds held with St. Jamess Place.
In order to permit withdrawals at this level, your two capped plans will first need to be 
switched into Flexible Drawdown Plans in order to enable the unlimited withdrawals available 
under flexi-access drawdown.
All three plans are within their first 12 months and early withdrawal charges apply during the 
first six years. This means that there will be anticipated early withdrawal charges at 6% or 
£12,668 on the withdrawal, giving you a taxable income of £198,468.
As you have previously received an ad hoc payment of £37,041 during the current tax year 
so you already expect to pay some higher rate income tax at 40% this year.
Taking the withdrawal of all of your drawdown funds will mean that your overall taxable 
income will be in the region of £255,509 when the state pension is included.
We currently estimate that this means you will be paying income tax at the 40% rate of 
approximately £41,184 and a further £42,979 at the 45% rate on the payment of £198,468 
but there are several factors that could affect this, and the actual figures will depend on the 
fund values on the day of encashment and the tax calculations performed by our 
Administration Centre.
Based on these estimates, you would receive a net payment of approximately £114,304 
after charges and tax deductions, meaning your objective of receiving at least £105,000 
should be achieved. However, it is possible that you will need to produce a tax return to 
recover any excess payment if any excess tax has been paid.
If after considering the consequences of making these withdrawals, you still wish to encash 
your plans I recommend you request a payment of all funds held within your plans
Using the information, you have provided this means your marginal rate of income tax with 
be at the additional rate of 45% and you will also lose your personal allowance.
You are already using your other liquid assets for the property so you have no alternative 
funds that could be used.Im persuaded that this letter made it very clear the costs and tax implications of proceeding 
with the withdrawal in order to purchase the property. Im not entirely sure why Mr E did not 
receive the letter as it is addressed correctly, and all other letters seem to have been 
received without issue. 
I can also see Mr E signed the withdrawal form to encash all funds on 13 June 2017.
I have also considered the two emails dated 22 June 2017 and 23 June 2017. The first 
confirms Mr E is shocked by the amount of the tax implications and early withdrawal 
charges, which indicates he was aware of them at that point. The latter confirms specifically 
that he knew what the amounts would be and that he may lose the sale or ask the seller to 
wait until he sells another property.
As I explained earlier, where the evidence in unclear of being challenged I must look at the 
wider circumstances and reach a decision on a balance of probabilities. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr E was unaware of the tax implications or the early withdrawal 
charges, in fact the reverse, he confirmed in his email that he was shocked at the amount, 
indicating he did know. His email suggests that he wanted to secure this property purchase 
and in signing the withdrawal and confirming he wished to encash all his funds  this would 
seem to have been the greater priority.
This is further supported by the telephone call notes from November 2017, which refer to Mr 
E expressing his regret at making the decision to withdraw his funds, his acknowledgement 
that he knew what the tax charge would be but that he had forgotten about the early 
withdrawal charges. The notes show that his adviser referred him to the Suitability letter and 
the earlier withdrawals he made also detailed that there are early withdrawal charges in the 
first six years. The notes go onto say that he wasnt really clear that he would be encashing 
all the plans as he ended up with £13,000 more than he needed and suffered a termination 
charge. The notes make it clear that the adviser said she could only address this if he 
wished to make a complaint, which the notes go on to say - he did not. The notes say Mr E 
wanted to look at a way to soften the blow of the charges he had to pay.
The notes then go onto record discussions about the possibility of claiming back tax and 
increasing payments into his wifes pension to maximise any tax relief available.
On balance, Im persuaded Mr E was aware of the tax implications and although he may not 
have remembered the early withdrawal charges, I find that it was clearly addressed in the 
letter dated 12 June and referenced by him in his call to SJP on 22 and 23 June 2017. At 
this point Mr e had clearly seen the letter and intended to proceed I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr E asked to stop any of the payments or that he asked for advice on alternative 
methods of funding his property purchase. On that basis, I have concluded it was reasonable 
for SJP to continue with the fund withdrawals. 
I have considered that a representative said it may be possible to reinstate his funds and this 
was indeed an error. But I have to consider whether that had a material impact on his 
decision. Mr E had already signed the forms to withdraw all his funds and had indicated the 
urgency of accessing the money to purchase a property. So, whilst the information wasnt 
correct, I havent seen anything to lead me to think this aspect alone would have made a 
difference.
Im not privy to the exact details of the conversation and I can see SJP apologised if what 
was said caused confusion. The re-instatement of a pension and repayment of income is 
largely governed by HMRC. Unless there is an exceptional circumstance caused by an 
administrative error, it would be highly unusual for HMRC to allow this due to the pension 
regulations. So, as Mr E requested and agreed the withdrawals, Im not persuaded his 
pensions could be re-instated.I do of course sympathise that in a short space of time thereafter, the payments were 
already in progress including the charges and tax deductions and subsequently the property 
purchase fell through.  But Im not able to say that SJP acted in anything other than his best 
interests in pushing through the income withdrawals quickly as Mr E requested.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman