DRN-3376499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has unfairly increased their home 
insurance premiums in the middle of their subsidence claim and affected the continuity of 
their cover. 
What happened
Tesco acted as an insurance intermediary arranging the coverage of risks via an 
underwriter. And so, although Mr and Mrs W held a Tesco policy the insurance cover was 
provided by another business. 
Mr and Mrs W claimed on their Tesco policy for subsidence damage to their home in 2016. 
Tesco wrote to Mr and Mrs W in August 2021 to say it wouldnt renew their home insurance 
policy. Mr and Mrs W said this was unfair as they were in the midst of a subsidence claim, 
which had not been concluded. They said their home was uninsurable at that point and they 
were living in alternative rented accommodation until repairs were concluded. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to Tesco about its decision. Tesco responded that the policy had 
been underwritten by a separate company, but this arrangement was ending. It said a new 
underwriter would be taking on Tesco policies with different acceptance criteria for risk and 
the age of Mr and Mrs Ws property didnt fit this criteria. However, Tesco acknowledged the 
need for continuous cover and offered Mr and Mrs W renewal at a cost of £634.69.    
Mr and Mrs W said the premium was double what they had previously paid and refused the 
offer. They said that subsequent to this their home has been uninsured.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said we cant require Tesco 
to resume its relationship with its previous underwriter as that arrangement had ended. But 
Tesco had made an exception to its new underwriters criteria and offered Mr and Mrs W a 
policy. Although this was more than previous premiums the investigator said Tesco had met 
its obligation to provide a consistent level of cover during the claim and had acted fairly. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They said they hoped the complaint would be upheld by reference 
to previous decisions by our service which had been breached by Tesco and the previous 
underwriter of their policy. Mr and Mrs W said they wanted the price-hike to be included in 
their complaint. And said the investigator had incorrectly stated last years premium at £527 
whereas it was £343.16. Mr and Mrs W requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about Tesco to see if they 
have been treated in accordance with their policy and treated fairly. I note that they have a 
separate complaint about the policy underwriter, and this is being considered separately.
In their response to the investigator, Mr and Mrs W have raised the issue central to this 
complaint  the continuity of cover for their claim  and issues concerning their possessions, 
and alternative accommodation. These latter issues were not part of Mr and Mrs Ws initial 
complaint about Tesco and havent been considered by the investigator and so I havent 
been able to consider them here. Mr and Mrs W may make a separate complaint about 
remaining issues if they wish.
  
The September 2021 renewal for Mr and Mrs W reflected the change to Tescos commercial 
relationships. Previously, Tesco administered policies for a number of underwriters and 
provided the policy to Mr and Mrs W underwritten by the same business as when they made 
their claim in 2016. Tesco now has another underwriter.
Mr and Mrs W wont accept the revised policy and terms offered by Tesco and their property 
has been left uninsured. And they said they cant obtain appropriate cover elsewhere and so 
their home is uninsurable under the same terms due to the unsettled claim. Mr and Mrs W 
want to retain the existing cover until the claim is resolved and said that neither Tesco nor 
the underwriter should be discharged of their responsibility until then.
When policyholders are dealing with a subsidence claim and their home is uninhabitable 
there needs to be continuous cover until the claim is resolved. Our service expects an 
insurer to provide continuous cover as stated on Mr and Mrs Ws previous complaint. Im 
pleased Tesco promptly recognised its mistake in trying to end Mr and Mrs Ws cover whilst 
their claim was ongoing. 
With regards to Mr and Mrs Ws policy, Tesco was acting as an intermediary, in a non-
advisory role placing the cover with a separate underwriter. This is a commercial relationship 
that an intermediary is entitled to embark upon and terminate and our service doesnt have 
any control over this. 
All Tesco policies moved to a new underwriter and Tesco has shared the underwriting 
guidance with us which shows that the underwriter doesnt offer cover for properties over a 
certain age. Tesco has said it will offer Mr and Mrs W a policy with similar cover to the 
previous underwriter. If Mr and Mrs W were to accept this but found it not to be equivalent to 
their previous cover, they could bring this to our attention. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs W could 
try again to obtain cover from another provider. This may not be easy due to their ongoing 
claim, but because of its offer of cover, this wouldnt be Tescos fault.
In the meantime the previous underwriter of Mr and Mrs Ws policy remains responsible for 
settling their claim and that wont change just because a different underwriter accepts the 
policy and so I can see no disadvantage to Mr and Mrs W in moving to another underwriter.
Mr and Mrs W said in their email to our service dated 28 January 2022 that this complaint 
had nothing to do with Tesco hiking the price, but is entirely to do with continuity of cover 
and just as importantly responsibility and combined duty of care by both broker and
underwriter until such time that they have correctly discharged their responsibility.
However, in Mr and Mrs Ws response to the investigator they said they wanted the price-
hike included in their complaint. And they said the investigator had incorrectly stated their 
last years premium at £527, whereas it was £343.16. The insurance renewals show that the 
premiums previously offered were £343.16 in 2019 and £343.04 in 2020. In Mr and Mrs Ws 
previous complaint to the original underwriter of their policy the additional premium to be 
charged was waived and compensation paid. The premium was calculated at £527.62 for 
2020 but was reduced due to adjustments made by Tesco. From Tescos records I can see 
that the premium would have been close to this amount even with the previous insurer.Tesco then said Mr and Mrs Ws premium from the new underwriter for 2021 would be 
£634.69, which it said was the best price based on the risk associated with the policy and 
property. Tesco said the new underwriter had assessed the previous policy and cover at 
renewal to generate the premium based on its underwriting criteria. 
Premiums may alter over time, which is normal, but the levels of cover and facilities provided 
should remain consistent, for example, an insurer shouldnt remove subsidence cover from 
the policy as this would be unfair to policyholders. In Mr and Mrs Ws case, Tesco need to 
ensure its quoted premium has been calculated in accordance with the agreement in 
settlement of the previous complaint, i.e. the manual update applied so it didnt consider the 
subsidence claim as settled in error. This was so that the premium wouldnt be significantly 
influenced by the incorrect recording of Mr and Mrs Ws claim, as it had been previously.
Tesco has made a commercial decision about its role and I appreciate this has implications 
for Mr and Mrs Ws policy arranged by Tesco. But it has provided an alternative option and 
solution in an attempt to alleviate the resultant impact, which is fair and reasonable. I 
recommend that Mr and Mrs W obtain building insurance for their home as a matter of 
urgency.
Tescos obligation from our services review of Mr and Mrs Ws previous complaint was to 
provide a consistent level of cover during the claim. But its not a requirement that the policy 
arranged by Tesco must be underwritten by the previous underwriter. I think Tesco has met 
its obligation and treated Mr and Mrs W fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman