DRN-3120757
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) incorrectly registered a default on her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss M says BoS incorrectly registered a default on her credit file in around 2016. She says 
BoS accepted it made a mistake and removed the default. Miss M says in 2020 she found 
out that one Credit Reference Agency (CRA) was still reporting the default. She says this 
would have had an effect on her financial position over the four year period and meant she 
borrowed money from a family member to make a balloon payment on a car finance 
agreement as she would have been unlikely to have obtained new finance. In summary Miss 
M says she would like about £5,000 compensation for what took place and says she had 
credit card applications refused during this period.
BoS accepts it made a mistake and says it has offered £500 compensation as well as £275 
compensation for the previous problems. It says the default has now been removed.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer was 
fair and reasonable. The investigator didnt think it possible to conclude the default was the 
reason for the credit application refusal or that a new car finance application would have 
been refused. The investigator explained that she could consider what did happened and not 
what may have happened.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation offer doesnt go far enough 
or reflect what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount. I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that BoS made a mistake and that one CRA reported a default. I 
dont think it clear why that took place or why only one CRA appeared to report that. The 
only question I have to consider is the compensation amount and what if any financial losses 
Miss M suffered.
I dont think it possible to conclude that any credit application refusals were due to the 
default. I think lenders and credit providers consider a variety of factors when making such 
decisions and I have not seen any evidence that those refusals were linked to this issue. So, 
it follows that I cant fairly order compensation for that part of the complaint.
I appreciate Miss M says she was forced to borrow money to repay her car finance rather 
than take out a new agreement. I dont think that Miss M suffered a loss, and, in any event, I 
dont think it possible to conclude that any new finance application would have been 
affected. I say that as it is not possible to conclude which CRAs any car finance business 
would have used.
Overall, I accept BoS made a mistake and that Miss M was caused inconvenience in sorting 
matters out. But Im satisfied that the compensation award is fair and reasonable and takes 
into account what I think the impact of the mistake was. I find the award is line with what this 
service would normally award for this type of mistake. I cant comment on the previous 
complaints for the reasons the investigator has explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman