DRN-2741292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that esure Insurance Limited declined their claim for subsidence on 
their home insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a home insurance policy with esure. In 2018 they noticed cracks in part of 
the extension to their property. They made a claim on the insurance. 
esure sent out specialists to examine the damage. In July 2019 it wrote to Mr and Mrs C to 
say it was declining their claim due to the defective foundation exclusion. It said that the 
foundations of the extension were only 400mm deep and new building guidance says these 
should be around 2,500mm. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was fair. They said the first storey of the extension had been 
built in 1983, it was only the second storey that was built in 2010. So they said the 2007 new 
buildings guidance wouldnt have applied when the foundations were built. Further they said 
that the new building guidance esure had quoted was just best practise and not building 
regulations. So it wasnt fair to hold them to that standard. esure responded quoting another 
exclusion in the policy  for defective workmanship. It said that this exclusion would apply as 
the new buildings guidance wasnt met. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. esure responded to say that it 
didnt uphold the complaint and agreed that the claim should be declined for the reasons 
detailed in its original declination letter. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, they said they had a copy of the completion certificate from the 
council that showed the extension met building regulations at the time. Further they said they 
had purchased the property after the extension was built, so the certificate is all they had to 
rely on to know it had met the required regulations. They brought their complaint to this 
service. 
After the complaint came to us, esure provided the relevant building regulations from the 
time the second storey was built, rather than just the new building guidance. These state that 
foundations should be 900mm deep. It said that when the second storey of the extension 
was built, the builder should have checked the foundations of the first storey as these would 
need to meet the requirements of the time, in order to ensure they held the full weight of the 
building. 
Our investigator considered all the information but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She said as the building regulations hadnt been met, then esure was fair to decline 
the claim by applying the defective foundations exclusion.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with this. They said they had bought the property in 2013, and as 
they only had the certificate of completion from the council to go on, they couldnt have 
reasonably been aware of the depth of the foundations. But assumed they met building 
regulations as this is what it said on the certificate. They asked for the case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
After the case came to me, Mr and Mrs C contacted me to say they had instructed an 
independent surveyor to look at the foundations of the extension. The surveyor carried out 
investigatory work including digging trial pits to measure the foundations. He issued a report 
that concluded the foundations of the extension were over 1000mm deep at all points that 
were tested. 
I provided this report to esure, along with my provisional decision. In my provisional decision 
I explained that I didnt think esure had acted fairly by declining Mr and Mrs Cs claim. I said 
this was because I dont think they could have reasonably been aware of the depth of the 
foundations, particularly given the certificate issued by the council. I further explained that in 
light of the new evidence, I was now also satisfied that the foundations met building 
regulations at the time. So I explained I intended to require esure to accept Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim for subsidence in line with the other policy terms and conditions. 
Further, as the report instructed by Mr and Mrs C has changed the outcome of the claim, I 
have explained that I intend to require esure to reimburse them for the cost of the report. 
This should be on receipt of proof of the cost to Mr and Mrs C. 
esure has responded to say it accepts my decision and has no further comments. Mr and 
Mrs C also provided no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As esure has accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Accept Mr and Mrs Cs claim for subsidence and settle it in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, without applying the exclusion for defective foundations. 
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the cost of the independent report, on receipt of proof of the 
cost to them. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman