DRN-3556659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was unfair to decline 
their porting application and then apply an early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Halifax. In 2018 they took out a five-year fixed interest 
rate product which included an ERC. This was payable if they repaid the mortgage before 
2024. They could still move home without paying the ERC if they ported the product to a new 
mortgage.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S discussed making a porting application with Halifax and were told 
theyd be able to borrow the amount they wanted. In 2020 they made a porting application. 
Halifax said it couldnt offer a mortgage as the property Mr and Mrs S wanted to buy didnt 
have a separate legal title. 
Mr and Mrs S applied for a mortgage with another lender and completed their purchase in 
March 2021. They paid an ERC of about £11,000 when they repaid their mortgage with 
Halifax in December 2020. They say having to pay this put them under financial pressure.
Mr and Mrs S say the product they took out in 2018 was mis-sold as they were assured it 
was portable. They say if theyd been told about Halifaxs lending policy they wouldnt have 
taken out a five-year product. They say they were misled for months in 2019 about being 
able to port.
Halifax said Mr and Mrs S took out the fixed rate product in 2018 on a non-advised basis, 
and the product transfer offer made it clear that porting applications were subject to lending 
criteria. Halifax said it should have told Mr and Mrs S sooner it wouldnt port to the property 
they wanted to buy. It refunded the valuation fee (of £200) and paid £250 compensation. Mr 
and Mrs S say this isnt sufficient.
Our investigator said the product offer said porting was subject to lending criteria. Halifax 
didnt know until September 2020 that the title of the property Mr and Mrs S wanted to buy 
was shared. Our investigator said while it should have stopped the application at that point 
instead of allowing the valuation to go ahead, the compensation paid by Halifax was fair.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said Halifax declined to port because the seller owned 
adjoining land, and it relied on the valuer to tell it what its own policy was. He said Halifax 
should have told them about its policy in 2018. He said a product wasnt portable if the 
criteria could be changed at any time, and this allowed lenders to invent criteria to avoid 
porting. Mr S said it was intended that the title would be split at completion and the new 
lender had no problem with this.
Mr S said due to the delays caused by Halifax they lost about £13,000 on the sale of their 
property. He said Halifaxs mortgage adviser called him to rehearse answers before the 
recorded advice call, and told them to say they wanted a fixed rate product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S took out a five-year fixed rate product in September 2018. This included an 
ERC, which was clearly set out in the product transfer offer in the form of a table. Mr and 
Mrs S agreed to this when they took out the product. They repaid the mortgage in December 
2020 and Halifax applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs S say its unfair for Halifax to apply the ERC. They say they wouldnt have taken 
out the product if they hadnt been assured it was portable. They say the product was mis-
sold.
It was important to Mr and Mrs S that the product they took out was portable. Theyve said 
they always intended to move. I dont think though that I can fairly find that the product was 
mis-sold. Halifax didnt recommend the product to Mr and Mrs S. They chose it on a non-
advised basis. I think the information in the product transfer offer was sufficiently clear for Mr 
and Mrs S to decide whether to take out the product, knowing that they intended to move in 
the near future.
The product was portable. That is, when the existing mortgage was repaid the product could 
be transferred to a new mortgage on a different property. The application for the new 
mortgage was subject to meeting Halifaxs lending criteria. Halifax says the property Mr and 
Mrs S wanted to buy didnt meet its lending criteria. Mr S said Halifax should have made it 
clear that they had to meet criteria in addition to what he says are the usual criteria of loan to 
value and affordability. But I dont think its unusual or unfair for a mortgage lender to have 
criteria about what properties they consider to be suitable security for a loan. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that Halifax should have explained its lending criteria in full 
(some of which could be commercially sensitive, and which is subject to change) to Mr and 
Mrs S in 2018. If Mr and Mrs S had a property in mind, they could have asked whether this 
was acceptable before taking out the product. If Mr and Mrs S had asked Halifax about the 
situation with the property title before taking out the product in 2018 Id expect Halifax to give 
an accurate reply. But theres no evidence they did so.
Halifax hasnt been able to find a recording of the call when Mr and Mrs S chose the product. 
Im satisfied it made reasonable efforts to locate the call. But unless Mr and Mrs S asked 
about Halifaxs policy regarding the title issue (which they havent said they did) its unlikely 
the recording would change the outcome. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted Halifax on 27 August 2020 after accepting an offer for their property. 
Halifax issued a decision in principle on 1 September 2020. This said a mortgage was 
subject to a satisfactory assessment of the property to be mortgaged.
On 11 September 2020 Mr S told Halifax the property didnt have a separate property title 
and this would be created on completion. Halifax says this didnt meet its lending criteria and 
it should have stopped the application at that point. A valuation was carried out on 24 September 2020. The valuer was unable to provide a 
valuation for the property because of the shared title. The valuer said theyd need to see the 
new title plan and the solicitor should confirm if services were shared. The valuer also noted 
that the sale was not arms length as the sellers were family members, who would continue 
to own the surrounding land. 
Halifax asked Mr and Mrs S for information about the title plan and shared services on 28 
September 2020. Mr and Mrs S appointed a broker and on 27 October 2020 were told the 
property didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria due to the shared title and the sellers retaining 
the adjoining land.
I think Halifax should have told Mr and Mrs S it couldnt lend to them on 11 September 2020, 
when Mr S told it about the shared title. The valuers comments about the title should 
certainly have prompted Halifax to do this. Had it done so, Mr and Mrs S would have been 
able to take mortgage advice and start the mortgage application process with another lender 
more than a month earlier.
The ERC was about £11,000. Understandably, Mr and Mrs S wanted to avoid this cost. But 
they were aware that they couldnt port the mortgage to the property they wanted to buy 
before they exchanged contracts. I can understand that Mr and Mrs S wanted to go ahead 
with the move, but ultimately it was their choice to do so. I dont think its fair and reasonable, 
in the circumstances, to require Halifax to refund the ERC.
Mr S said the property they bought didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria because the vendors 
retained adjoining land. I appreciate Mr Ss frustration that they werent given clear 
information about whether Halifax considered the property suitable security at the outset. But 
even if there was another reason that the property didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria, the 
outcome  that it declined their porting application  would have been the same. 
Mr S said theyd lost £13,000 on their sale, due to delays by Halifax. We asked for evidence 
of this. Mr Ss reply referred to the ERC, so I think thats what hes referring to. Ive already 
said why I dont think its fair to require Halifax to refund the ERC. Mr and Mrs S were able to 
go ahead with their sale and purchase, and Halifax refunded the valuation fee. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs S suffered financial loss due to the delays caused by Halifax. 
Theres no doubt though that these delays caused worry and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs S 
while they were organising their sale and purchase  itself a stressful time. Its right that 
Halifax paid compensation for this. 
Mr and Mrs S would have been caused trouble and inconvenience by having to start their 
application again, with another lender. However, they were always going to have to do that 
as the property they wanted to buy didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria. Halifaxs error was 
not to tell them this earlier. For the additional worry and inconvenience this caused, I think 
Halifaxs offer of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Mr S says the mortgage adviser told them what to say before the recorded call. This wasnt 
part of the complaint they raised with Halifax. As Halifax hasnt had an opportunity to look 
into and respond to this complaint, this isnt something I can consider here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman