DRN-3024998
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the service she received from Lloyds Bank PLC when she visited 
branch.
What happened
It should be noted that the events under consideration here took place at a time when Lloyds 
were implementing special policies to minimise close personal contact as a result of the 
Covid-19 global pandemic. It also should be noted that Mrs S has a medical exemption such 
that she wasnt required to wear a face covering during this time. Finally, it should be noted 
that Mrs S is from an Asian background.
Mrs S visited a Lloyds branch to use an ATM machine. When she entered the branch she 
was spoken to by a staff member in a condescending tone and directed to an ATM machine 
that was already being used by an elderly Asian gentleman  even though there were other 
machines available. Mrs S then noticed other customers coming into branch and being 
allowed to use the other ATM machines that were free at that time without direction. 
Mrs S noticed that the customers that were allowed to use the free ATM machines werent 
from an Asian background and were all wearing face masks. Mrs S felt that she hadnt been 
directed to a free ATM machine because of either her ethnicity or because she wasnt 
wearing a mask, and so she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mrs Ss complaint and based on Mrs Ss testimony they accepted that she 
shouldnt have been asked to queue for an ATM when other ATMs were available. Because 
of this, Lloyds apologised to Mrs S and made a payment of £100 to her as compensation for 
any upset that the matter may have caused.  
However, Lloyds noted that theyd asked the branch for its staffs recollections of what had 
taken place, but that none of the staff could recall the incident in question. Because of this, 
Lloyds didnt feel that they could agree that Mrs S had been discriminated against, and so 
they didnt uphold this aspect of Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that there was sufficient 
evidence to allow an impartial confirmation of Mrs Ss allegation of discrimination, and they 
felt that Lloyds response to the service aspect of Mrs Ss complaint, including the payment of 
£100 compensation, did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. 
So, they didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate from Mrs Ss testimony why she feels that the actions of Lloyds staff in 
directing her to an already in use ATM machine, while other Lloyds customers werent given 
similar direction, was an act of discrimination against her.
Its illegal for a business to discriminate against a customer in the manner in which Mrs S 
alleges here. However, it must be noted that this service isnt a court of law and doesnt 
operate in the same manner as a court of law. Specifically, its beyond the remit of this 
service to make a determination as to whether or not Lloyds have acted illegally here  and 
this is because such a determination is for a court of law to make. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, what this service seeks to do is to assess 
impartially whether a business has responded in a fair and reasonable manner to a 
customers complaint, and to instruct the business to take appropriate corrective action if 
necessary. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint, what this service would expect would be that 
Lloyds would have sought to corroborate what happened during Mrs Ss visit to branch by 
sourcing whatever information it could from the staff in the branch at which the incident 
occurred.
Lloyds did that here, but unfortunately none of the branch staff could recall the incident 
under consideration. Additionally, CCTV footage from the date of the incident was no longer 
available. While I can appreciate that Mrs S might be disappointed by this fact, it must be 
noted that it isnt unusual for CCTV footage to only be retained for a set period of time. 
It also should be noted that its very rare for CCTV footage to include any audio recording, 
and its often the case that CCTV footage only consists of a series of still images, seconds 
apart, rather than one continuously moving image. As such, Im not convinced that even if 
CCTV footage from the date of the incident still existed, that it would enable the 
corroboration of Mrs Ss version of events as Mrs S believes would be the case here.
Its notable here that Lloyds, despite being unable to obtain any confirmation from its branch 
as to what had taken place, accepted Mrs Ss testimony and upheld her complaint on the 
basis that she shouldnt have been directed to an already in use ATM. Lloyds apologised to 
Mrs S and made a payment of £100 compensation to her as a result of this. This seems 
reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that it represents a fair resolution to that aspect of Mrs 
Ss complaint.
But Mrs S also stated that she that shed been discriminated against. However, Lloyds didnt 
accept that Mrs S being directed to an ATM that was already being used constituted an act 
of discrimination such as Mrs S claims, and this also seems reasonable to me, given the 
seriousness of the accusation and the lack of confirming evidence to corroborate it.
As mentioned, the remit of this service is to make an impartial assessment as to whether a 
business has responded to a complaint fairly and reasonably. And while Mrs S has stated 
that she feels that an act of discrimination took place, I hope that she can understand that I 
dont feel that I can instruct against Lloyds for this reason on the basis of her testimony 
alone, and this is because I dont feel that I would be acting impartially by taking only her 
testimony into account, especially given the absence of any evidence which could 
corroborate that testimony. I also dont consider it unreasonable that Lloyds themselves 
reached a similar conclusion when initially assessing Mrs Ss complaint.Im aware that Mrs S might feel that the nature of her accusation is such that its difficult for 
corroborating evidence to be found. But as also mentioned previously, it isnt within the remit 
of this service to make a formal determination as to whether an act of discrimination has or 
hasnt taken place  such a formal determination is for a court of law to make.
All of which means that Im satisfied that, from the point of view of the remit of this service, 
Lloyds response to Mrs Ss complaint, including the payment of £100 compensation for the 
act of directing Mrs S to an ATM machine that was already in use, does constitute a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action here. I trust that Mrs 
S will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman