DRN-1840447
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays), who were trading at the time as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below. 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this, many years later. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed to follow 
at the time and I can see that the representative was supposed to only add the cover if they 
got the consumers agreement. I havent seen sufficient evidence to find that this guidance 
was not followed in this case. 
I have also considered that the statement dated 17 May 2004 shows that Mrs S was paying 
for Payment Protection Plan. So if Mrs S hadnt agreed to the cover at the time of the 
telephone call, then her statements ought to have alerted her that she was paying for 
something she cant now recall having agreed to at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think she would have, most likely, raised this as an issue with Barclays many years before 
she eventually chose to do. So, it seems most likely that Mrs S wanted this sort of cover and 
would have known she had a choice about taking the PPI out or not. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI cover. And Mrs S seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs S told us 
that whilst her initial sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months, such that 
she may have had to rely on her modest savings. This policy couldve covered 10% of Mrs 
Ss monthly balance for up to 12 months. So, I think Mrs S couldve found this cover useful.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold 
by Barclays Bank UK Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman