DRN-3501440
The complaint
Miss G complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In August 2020 Miss G was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
SMF. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had covered 51,000 miles.
In October 2021 the car broke down. Miss G raised a complaint with SMF.
SMF arranged for an independent inspection of the car, which took place in December 2021. 
The engineer stated that the fault had been caused by a reduction in oil supply due to a 
blockage of the oil filter following a break up of the timing belt. The engineer also stated that 
it was unlikely that the fault was present at the point of supply because the symptoms would 
have been identifiable much sooner given the mileage covered by Miss G.
SMF issued a final response and said it wasnt responsible. Miss G brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the engineers report and the technical service 
bulletin provided by Miss G indicated that the fault was a known manufacturing fault. The 
investigator said that SMF should arrange for repairs at no cost to Miss G. 
SMF didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account the age and 
mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their general state and 
condition, as well as fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs 
and maintenance  more often than a  brand new car. So, in order to uphold the complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent defect, rather than a fault caused by 
general wear and tear.
Theres no dispute that theres a fault with the car. The independent inspection confirms that 
theres a serious fault with the engine.
The issue for me to determine here is whether the fault makes the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. Ive considered all of the available information provided by Miss G as well as the 
engineering evidence.
The independent inspection found that the car wasnt fit for purpose due to the adverse 
engine noise. The engineer stated that the noise was likely associated with clearances 
between the big end bearing shells and the crankshaft, and that this can be caused by a 
reduction in oil supply due to a  blockage of the oil filter following a break up of the timing 
belt. The engineer further stated that without removing the sump to allow for closer 
examination of the oil filter, it couldnt be confirmed whether the technical services bulletin 
was relevant. The engineer said that if the fault had been present at the point of supply, the 
symptoms wouldve been apparent much sooner, given the 8000 miles covered by Miss G, 
and concluded that the engine noise developed after the point of supply.
Ive also considered the technical services bulletin provided by Miss G. This suggests that 
the origin of the known fault is the destruction of the timing belt. The independent inspection 
report identified that the timing belt had broken up and referenced the technical services 
bulletin.
A timing belt can reasonably be expected to last around 100,000 miles, so on any analysis, 
the timing belt has failed prematurely here, as Miss Gs car had only covered 60,000 miles 
when the car broke down. This calls into question the durability of the car, which is an aspect 
of satisfactory quality. I dont think that a reasonable person would expect a timing belt to fail 
at 60,000 miles. On balance, Im persuaded that the car wasnt sufficiently durable.
Further, Im persuaded that the technical services bulletin and the engineering evidence 
(including the independent inspection report) indicate that there is a known manufacturing 
fault with the car. The technical services bulletin states that the fault appears after the car 
has covered 20,000 km and manifests itself in the break up of the timing belt prematurely. 
This is consistent with what has happened to Miss Gs car.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, Im persuaded that there was an inherent 
fault with the car which led to the premature failure of the timing belt. This means that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Putting things right
Miss G has said that she wants to end the agreement. Under the relevant legislation, the 
business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the repair isnt successful, the 
consumer can reject the car. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to require 
SMF to allow a rejection and end the agreement. Instead, SMF should arrange for the car to 
be repaired at no cost to Miss G.
Im aware that Miss G hasnt been able to use the car since October 2021. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Miss G to pay for a car shes been unable to use. I think its fair to ask 
SMF to refund all payments made by Miss G since the car broke down.
Its clear that all of this has had an impact on Miss G. Being without a car has meant that she 
had to arrange alternative transport to get to her hospital appointments, which is of particular 
impact on her as she was pregnant at the time. I think its fair to ask SMF to pay 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Miss GPay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Refund all payments made by Miss G since October 2021 to the date when repairs are 
completed
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman