DRN-2216572
The complaint
Miss L says Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Ferratum provided to Miss L in January 2018. 
The loan was for £500 and was repaid over three monthly instalments of around £254. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint and thought Ferratums checks for the loans 
went far enough. Miss L disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Ferratums checks didnt 
go far enough and it should have been aware that she was struggling financially and had 
other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Ferratum has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss L about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £2,751. Ferratum says it also searched Miss Ls 
credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse 
entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan 
was taken out. So, there wasnt anything that ought to have prompted Ferratum to ask for 
further information or do more checks.
As this was the first loan Miss L had borrowed from Ferratum, she was very early on in her 
lending relationship with it. And even though she had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information she declared 
to Ferratum. And there wasnt anything in the information Miss L provided at the time which 
would have given Ferratum cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Ferratum to 
have relied on what Miss L gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Ferratum to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Ferratum did before lending the loan 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Miss L declared to Ferratum at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Ferratum was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Ferratum knew about 
Miss L, I wouldnt have expected Ferratum to verify the information Miss L gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Ferratum has done something wrong in lending Miss L 
these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Miss L, but I hope my explanation will 
help Miss L understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint and make no award against Ferratum UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman