DRN-2553962
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was misled by Santander UK Plc to believe that his mortgage was 
approved but later found out that it wasnt. Mr M went ahead with paying a non-refundable 
deposit for the property, arranged insurance and incurred legal fees.
What happened
Mr M started a new mortgage application with Santander on 25 May 2020. Mr M was 
intending buying a property and tracked the mortgage application online. Mr M understood 
his application was approved by the underwriters on 12 June 2020 and again on 17 June 
2020 when Mr M checked the application again. After seeing the decision from the 
underwriters Mr M paid a non-refundable deposit, arranged insurance and paid legal fees. 
But then on 25 June 2020, Mr M received a decision from Santander that his application had 
been declined.
Santander said that it hadnt indicated on its online tracking system that the application was 
accepted. Our investigators view was that he didnt believe that the information was 
presented by Santander in a way that suggested the overall application had been approved 
and so he didnt recommend that this complaint should be accepted. Mr M disagreed and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has an application process for mortgages with an online tracker that allows 
customers to see what stage their mortgage application is at. A mortgage application will 
lead either to a mortgage offer or a decline. If the lender issues a mortgage offer this will set 
out important details of the mortgage contract such as amount of loan, interest rate, time 
period, any fixed period and when it ends, amount payable over the length of the mortgage 
any ERC, how overpayments are dealt with etc. It also requires the borrower to accept the 
offer before the mortgage contract comes into effect. Its only at that stage when the 
mortgage offer is accepted that a borrower can safely proceed on the basis that he or she 
has got a mortgage.
Mr M never got a mortgage offer but acted on the basis that he believed he had such an 
offer and says that because of information on the mortgage tracker that it was reasonable for 
him to do so. The difficulty that Mr M faces is that on the tracker there is a is a stage 
Valuation received, and your offer has been issued which the online tracker never got to. In 
any case even if the mortgage offer issued, Mr M would have had to have read and 
accepted what was contained in the offer. So, I do dont consider it was reasonable for Mr M 
to assume that he had got a mortgage offer and to act on that basis.
Certainly, Mr Ms application seemed to be progressing satisfactorily along the stages, but 
the reality is that he didnt get a mortgage offer and on the online tracker it could be seen 
that no mortgage offer issued. I noted also that on 25 May at an early stage, Santander 
emailed with the Decision in Principle to say that the amount that Santander will be available 
to offer will be confirmed after Mr M completed the full mortgage application and as I say 
above, there was np mortgage offer confirming what Santander would lend. So, I dont 
consider that it was reasonable for Mr M to assume that he had a mortgage offer from 
Santander and could proceed to purchase the property without that confirmation. 
After our investigator issued his view Mr M responded and made a number of points which 
Ive also considered. Mr M says that the statement on the tracker Your mortgage decision is 
available and We confirm your application has been approved by our underwriters led him 
to believe that the whole application had been approved. But Ive seen no mortgage decision 
approving the mortgage in full and no mortgage offer. The underwriters approval was a 
stage and there were other stages to be reached before an offer issued. Moreover, the 
section which says Valuation received, and your offer has been issued never turned green 
indicating that the mortgage hadnt been fully approved. 
Mr M makes the point that hes not a solicitor nor a trained mortgage adviser and indeed that 
he reads the highlights of emails and not the emails fully. It seems to me in those 
circumstances that it would have been reasonable for him to have enquired directly from 
Santander as to whether the mortgage was approved before proceeding with the deposit but 
went ahead in any case.  I dont agree with him that I can blame that on Santander.
I note that Mr M puts emphasis on the portal message of 12 June 2020 and email of 17 June 
saying that the application had been approved by the underwriters. But thats not a mortgage 
offer. Mr M says he acted directly on that information paying the non-refundable deposit and 
legal fees. But that information only means that one part of the process - an important part I 
agree - approved the application but the email still talks of the progress of the application 
which on any reasonable reading confirms that the application process was continuing and 
hadnt concluded.
Unfortunately for Mr M, Santander didnt approve the application. Santander is a commercial 
entity and can decide whether it lends money or not and to whom it lends. We require it to 
consider the application fairly. I have no evidence that it did not do so. Mr M says in his email 
of 24 September that it was failed because of racial discrimination. I note that Mr M did not 
refer to that in his complaint form and didnt put that to Santander to allow them to 
investigate it. But although the decision process is confidential, I have had access to the 
grounds of Santanders refusal, and I am of the view that Mr M was not treated differently or 
worse because of his race. So, for the above reasons, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman