DRN-2722259
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 2001. 
I appreciate that when PPI was sold, Nationwide was trading as the Portman Building 
Society. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Nationwide in this decision because it is 
responsible for answering the complaint. 
What happened
I can see that Ms S originally complained to Nationwide about the PPI policy in 2012. 
Initially, Nationwide didnt agree this was a complaint we could consider because it was 
made too late. However, I can see from its correspondence with our adjudicator that it did 
subsequently consent to our consideration of the complaint. 
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint in the first instance, he thought it should be 
upheld. He said he didnt think Nationwide had done enough to make the 60-day waiting 
period clear to Ms S. He didnt think Ms S would have taken the cover out if she had known 
about that waiting period. He noted that Ms S had tried to make a claim after she had been 
made redundant in a subsequent job in 2004 and ran into difficulties during the 60-day 
waiting period. 
Nationwide disagreed with that view. It said the 60-day period was mentioned in its literature 
at the relevant time, which would have also been drawn to Ms Ss attention by its 
representative. It said it did not understand how Ms S had run into difficulties paying her 
mortgage because she had said in her PPI questionnaire that she had savings or insurance 
that could have covered her for more than 12 months. It noted that the PPI policy was still 
active and expected that she would have cancelled it if she had continued concerns about 
the cover it provided. 
Our adjudicator then reconsidered the matter and indicated to the parties that he didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. Ms S disagreed with that view. She said that PPI was 
presented to her as a means of ensuring she would be able to meet her mortgage 
repayments if she was made redundant. She had not been made aware of the 60-day 
waiting period and she would not have taken it out had that waiting time been made clear. 
Ms S stated that when she was made redundant in 2004, she found that she could not claim 
on the cover for 60-days. She was intensely worried about how she would meet her 
mortgage repayments and so had to take a more junior position than that which she was 
qualified for. She reiterated that she had critical illness cover as provided by her employer 
and had generous sick pay provision. She did not consider the PPI was fit for purpose 
because of the waiting period and it was not appropriate for her circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I am grateful to Ms S for the time she has taken to put her case and the cogency of her 
arguments. Her strength of feeling in this matter is clear. I have given her complaint careful 
and lengthy thought. I am sorry to disappoint Ms S, but Im afraid I havent upheld it. Ill 
explain why below. 
The parties agree that cover was sold to Ms S during a face to face meeting. So to help me 
decide what happened during that meeting, Ive looked at the documentary evidence thats 
available from the time and Ive also had careful regard to what the parties told us about it. 
I wish to make clear that where the facts of a matter are in dispute (as they are here), I have 
applied the balance of probabilities. That means I have considered what is most likely to 
have happened based upon the evidence before me. 
The first thing for me to establish is whether it would have been made clear to Ms S that PPI 
was optional and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Ms S says the PPI was 
presented to her as part of the mortgage and she was merely given a number of pre-
completed forms and told where she should sign. 
I dont doubt that what Ms S told us is what she honestly recalls about the PPI sale. But I 
also have to bear in mind that it is difficult to remember precisely what happened around 20 
years ago, which is when this cover was sold. However, I can see that she also said that PPI 
was presented to her as providing peace of mind if she could not work. If it was presented as 
part of a package, it is not immediately clear to me why the person selling the cover would 
have also undertaken a conversation in order to persuade Ms S the cover could have been 
useful. 
Ms S was sent a mortgage offer, which is an important document I think she would have 
read, and that document does not state PPI was a condition of the mortgage. Ive seen a 
copy of a letter that was sent out to Ms S shortly after the sale in which her premium was set 
out. It was also clear that the insurer was a separate business to Nationwide. I think if Ms S 
had thought the PPI was part of her mortgage, she would have raised questions about why 
she was receiving correspondence about what appeared to be a separate financial product. 
The evidence doesnt suggest she did. 
I think there was probably more of a conversation about PPI than Ms S recalls. I say this 
because from the mortgage form, Ms S would have to indicate the type of cover she wanted. 
There were two prominent boxes to complete  one to say she wanted a PPI policy and 
another to say she did not. The box indicating she wanted cover has been marked. I think its 
most likely that the person selling the cover followed what was written on the application 
form and gave Ms S a choice about whether she wanted a PPI policy. 
I havent treated this as an advised sale. I say this because there is a lot of documentary 
evidence from the point of sale and I havent seen anything to suggest that a document 
similar to a demands and needs questionnaire was completed.  I dont think Nationwide 
tailored its PPI recommendation to Ms Ss personal circumstances. 
What that means in practice is that Nationwide didnt have to check whether the cover was 
suitable for Ms S. But it did have to give her enough information about the policy so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
There has been some lengthy dispute about the information Nationwide provided. It is 
adamant that it told Ms S about the 60-day waiting period. Ms S is adamant it did not. I dont 
necessarily accept what Nationwide said on this point because I do not think it is sufficient 
for it to rely on information contained in a leaflet during a face to face sale. And it has 
effectively asked me to assume that its adviser would have told Ms S about the 60-day 
waiting period. I dont think it would be right for me to make that assumption and so I accept that it is possible Nationwide didnt tell Ms S everything it should have done at the point of 
sale. 
However, that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. Thats because I then 
have to go on and consider on effectively an objective basis what Ms S would have done if 
Nationwide had told her everything it should have done. I must consider what Ms S would 
have done in 2001 when the cover was sold and not what happened later when she tried to 
claim in 2004. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions about 
the relevant policy. And Ive also considered what Ms S told us about her personal 
circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, Ms Ss mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months 
subject to that 60-day waiting period. 
Ms S told us that she had been in her job at that point for five years and that she would have 
been entitled to less than three months sick pay. She said she had savings or insurance at 
that time worth more than her annual salary and as Ms S has given us some detail about her 
critical illness cover, it appears to me that it was this policy she was referring to. As Ms S 
had been employed for five years at that point, I think she would have been entitled to at 
least some statutory redundancy pay. 
I appreciate Ms S feels strongly that the critical illness cover means she didnt need PPI. 
However, in my view, critical illness cover would only pay out if Ms S suffered from one of a 
number of defined and very serious illnesses. There are numerous more common reasons 
why Ms S may have been off sick from work that did not amount to a critical illness and in 
such circumstances, Ms S had less than three months sick pay with which to pay her 
mortgage. I must stress that the mortgage was secured on her home, which could have 
been at risk if she fell into notable arrears.
As to redundancy, I appreciate that when Ms S tried to claim on the cover in 2004, she was 
in difficulty because of the waiting period. However, by this point, she had changed her job 
and may well have fallen out of the qualifying period for a redundancy payment. The 
situation was different in 2001 when the cover was sold and Ms S would have most likely 
been entitled to some redundancy pay. 
It seems to me most likely that the 60-day waiting period would have not been such an 
important consideration in 2001. Ms S would have expected some income during the 60-day 
qualification period at that time and could have relied on the PPI when her work benefits 
were exhausted.  
I understand Ms S was in good health when the cover was sold, so I dont think she would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances that would have stopped her 
from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
I appreciate Ms S is most likely to disagree but looking at this case in the round, 
reasonably, I dont think she would have acted differently in 2001 even if Nationwide had 
given her more or better information about the cover. 
I am very sorry to disappoint Ms S, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld her 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Nationwide Building Society is not required to take any 
further action in respect of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman