DRN-3211113
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr M stopped making repayments and fell into arrears on the loan shortly after the solar 
panels were installed. He asked for the loan to be cancelled and the solar panels to be 
removed. The debt was passed by Omni to a debt collection agency who contacted Mr M 
during the course of our investigation.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
seven-year term of the loan. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Omni made an offer of settlement which was not in line with what the adjudicator said. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
Mr M was glad that the adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld but would prefer 
the loan to be written off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Omnis offer of settlement is not in line with our usual approach in this type of case, and I do 
not think it represents a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, I think that Omni didnt treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Omni did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
I set out below how Omni should put things right. This will, in effect, make the solar panels 
self-funding in the way Mr M understood they would be. After the seven years, Mr M will 
keep the solar panels and any ongoing benefits they provide.
I did consider whether the loan was unaffordable and should be written off. But, I dont think 
that would be a fair and reasonable outcome. Based on the information provided to Omni 
when Mr M applied for the loan, I dont think it was reasonably foreseeable that Mr M would 
be unable to keep up with his repayments so soon afterwards. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Omni to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar panels 
over a seven-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Mr Ms system was not registered for the feed-in tariff (FIT) scheme, so he has not received 
any FIT payments. That scheme is now closed to new entrants so Mr M cannot register for it 
or receive FIT payments in the future. As such, and given I havent seen anything that shows 
Mr M was clearly told he had to register for the scheme, I dont think it would be fair for FIT 
payments to be taken into account when Omni calculates the benefits of the solar panels. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Omni needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Omni to 
restructure Mr Ms loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a seven-year period. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
I am aware that Mr M is in arrears on his loan so there may be few if any overpayments that 
were made. 
In this case, given that Mr M is in arrears and has been unable to make the contractual 
monthly repayments,  I think the fairest resolution would be for any overpayments to be used 
to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and for Mr M to pay a new contractual monthly 
repayment until the end of the loan term. This will ensure his contractual monthly repayment 
is at the lowest level possible.
In the even that Mr M is unable to make the new contractual monthly repayment he should 
inform Omni of this and work with them to find a way forward. 
Mr M may also want to consider obtaining free impartial debt advice from a charity such as 
Citizens Advice (0800 240 4420), National Debtline (0808 808 4000) or StepChange (0800 
138 1111).Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Omni that means the claim should have been upheld, and that further trouble and 
upset was caused to Mr M by being contacted by a debt collection agency during our 
investigation. So, I direct Omni to pay £250 compensation directly to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman