DRN-4457763
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with West Bay Insurance Plcs (West Bay) handling of a claim made under 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr S was involved in an accident and his car was damaged, so he made a 
claim to West Bay, his car insurance provider.
Mr S car was taken to an approved garage for repair in mid-January 2023. However, due to 
a delay in parts required for the repair, it took until mid-April for the repairs to be carried out. 
Mr S was without a vehicle for this time. And when his car was repaired and returned, it had 
a cracked windscreen, so a further repair was required.
A complaint was made to West Bay by Mr S. West Bay partially upheld the complaint. They 
said the parts delay wasnt their fault, and Mr S policy provided a courtesy car if available, 
but one wasnt. However, they accepted Mr S car was returned with a cracked windscreen 
which required a further repair, so they offered £100 compensation for this.
Mr S remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said that the £100 
compensation already offered was fair for the windscreen issue and for Mr S needing to 
keep contacting West Bay. But he said West Bay should have done more to arrange a 
temporary car to keep Mr S mobile whilst awaiting the parts, and around a month would 
have been a reasonable period for West Bay to have taken to do so. Therefore, he said 
West Bay should pay Mr S £10 per day for loss of use of his vehicle for the remaining 
two-month period it took for repairs to be completed. 
West Bay didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator.
It took from mid-January to mid-April for Mr S car to be repaired (before the windscreen 
issue). This is a significant amount of time for Mr S to be without his car - or any vehicle. As 
a result, he needed to use alternative public transport throughout this time to get to work, 
extending his journey from 20 minutes to one hour each way. This is clearly inconvenient for 
a prolonged period.
West Bay say the delay was outside their control as they were awaiting parts which were 
delayed abroad. And they say Mr S policy only provides a courtesy car where available, and 
they say one wasnt.
I acknowledge that West Bay cant control delays in parts abroad and I recognise Mr S 
policy only provides a courtesy car where available. West Bay also says one would only be 
provided in any event for the actual period of time when repairs are taking place. However, 
whilst taking into account the policy terms, my role is also to consider what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
The fact here is that Mr S was left without a vehicle for a significant amount of time whilst 
West Bay were waiting for parts to complete repairs. This may be reasonable for a short 
period, such as a couple of weeks. But if the time starts to become unreasonable, which is 
the case here, Id have expected West Bay to have considered other options to keep Mr S, 
as their customer and policyholder, mobile. Whether that is seeking alternative 
arrangements such as a hire car to keep their customer mobile in the interim, or sourcing 
alternative or bespoke parts. But West Bay didnt do anything further here, and as a result, 
Mr S was without a vehicle for a significant amount of time. 
I agree with our investigator that a couple of weeks may have been reasonable for West Bay 
to explore alternatives to keep Mr S mobile. And I also recognise Mr S didnt need a car for 
half-term. So, I think the period the investigator recommended for loss of use, two months 
(i.e. 60 days) is a reasonable time period for West Bay to pay £10 per day loss of use to 
Mr S. 
I also recognise Mr S had to make a number of calls to West Bay for updates, and his car 
was returned to him with a cracked windscreen which then needed replacing. But West Bay 
has offered £100 compensation, and I think thats already reasonable (separate to the loss 
of use payment), so I wont be directing them to increase this amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr S the £100 compensation already offered if they havent already done so
Pay Mr S £600 for loss of use of his vehicle, which is £10 per day for a 60-day period
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman