DRN-2573514
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that that they received a poor level of service from Hargreaves 
Lansdown Advisory Services Limited trading as Hargreaves Lansdown (Hargreaves). 
Mr and Mrs W are looking to be compensated for the time that they say they spent dealing 
with Hargreaves errors and a refund of charges incurred.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W met with an adviser from Hargreaves in 2013 to discuss their financial 
arrangements and were advised to open a Portfolio Management Service. 
Around May 2019, Mr and Mrs W complained to Hargreaves about the service that they had 
received, and Hargreaves replied on 6 June 2019 apologising and offered £150 for failures 
in the service. In summary, Mr and Mrs W said that Hargreaves had:
Provided them with an incorrect disposal schedule that showed only half the gains within 
their portfolio 
Failed to set up an automatic bed and ISA
Provided poor service from their adviser including late receipt of reports and poor 
presentation of information 
Miscommunicated charges within their accounts 
Stopped providing face to face meetings and had to rely on telephone meetings
Mr and Mrs W didnt think that Hargreaves had responded to several of the complaint points 
and listed them in a letter to Hargreaves on 11 November 2019. Hargreaves replied to the 
points raised by Mr and Mrs W and said that their offer of compensation was still open and 
provided Mr and Mrs W with a final response.
Unhappy with Hargreaves response, Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to the service 
and one of our investigators looked at the complaint. The investigator thought that 
Hargreaves had acted reasonably in trying to address Mr and Mrs Ws concerns and had 
offered compensation in line with what the service would recommend. The investigator did 
not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs W have asked for an ombudsman to look 
at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr and Mrs W feel strongly 
about their complaint so I will explain why I have arrived at my decision.
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about lack of service and errors made when providing the 
service. I have looked at the documentation available which describes the service that 
Hargreaves provided, and I have looked at the submissions sent by Mr and Mrs W following 
their request for an ombudsman to review.
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs W say that they were provided with an 
incomplete disposal schedule and had they relied on the content within the schedule, they 
would have been liable for several thousand pounds in capital gains tax. 
When investigating what has gone wrong, the service can only look at what happened and 
what the impact was.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs W that they had to go through the schedule in detail and make 
Hargreaves aware of what was required to correct the information but the role of the service 
is not to punish a business for doing something wrong but to put the consumer back into the 
position they should have been in had the error not occurred. Hargreaves issued a new 
schedule containing the information and this did not lead to Mr and Mrs incurring a tax 
liability based upon incorrect information. 
The service cant look at hypothetical situations and although I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs 
W had to notify Hargreaves that the information was wrong, the error did not lead to any 
financial loss or disadvantage. Hargreaves offered Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation which 
I think is fair.
Mr and Mrs W also say that Hargreaves did not automatically set up their Bed and ISA and 
they had to notify them to set this up. Mr and Mrs say that without their intervention, they 
would have lost their tax allowance for the year. Hargreaves apologised for the omission and 
offered £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused by their actions. As I have said 
above, the service cant award compensation for something that may have happened, and I 
think that the compensation offered by Hargreaves was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In their submission to the service, Hargreaves say that they acted following Mr and Mrs Ws 
concerns about their adviser and apologised for the delay in them receiving reports. 
Hargreaves say that Mr and Mrs W have been allocated a new adviser, so it looks that they 
have acknowledged the issue and acted to put it right.
Mr and Mrs W say that during a meeting with their adviser, he advised moving the joint 
portfolio into separate ISAs and that it would cause charges of less than 0.1%. As I wasnt at 
the meeting, I cant be certain what was said, and I have no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ws 
recollection.
I have looked at what was sent to Mr and Mrs W about charges and can see that charges 
ranged from 0.29% to 0.49%. Hargreaves have said that the overall effect of holding assets 
within the ISA wrapper would have been more beneficial to them. Its unclear whether the 
adviser was talking about an overall increase of 0.1% or a rate of 0.1%. In their submission 
to the service, Mr and Mrs W said that when they asked if there would be any additional 
cost, the adviser said no.
I have looked at what may have happened based on the balance of probability and think that 
Hargreaves disclosed the charges appropriately. I am persuaded by the evidence that I have 
seen on file that Mr and Mrs W were sent information on charges.Mr and Mrs W have asked that Hargreaves compensate them for the time that they have 
spent to follow up the errors and omissions. They have said that they have spent around 10 
hours and they have suggested compensation at £50 per hour.
Mr and Mrs W say that face to face meetings have been withdrawn. Hargreaves have said 
that this service is still available but may be subject to pandemic restrictions. 
I have looked at what Hargreaves have done to correct the issues that Mr and Mrs W 
experienced and I think that they have attempted to address all the points raised. 
Hargreaves have offered a total of £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and I think that this is fair and reasonable and in line with what the service would 
suggest.
Hargreaves have acted appropriately in sending new reports and have arranged a new 
adviser for Mr and Mrs W. Where possible, they have put Mr and Mrs W back into the 
position they should have been in had the errors not occurred.
I know that Mr and Mrs W feel that it was only their intervention that meant that matters did 
not get worse, but I think that Hargreaves have recognised this and offered compensation 
where the service had failed on occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman