DRN-4018185
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd handled his claim 
under his furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr H took out a warranty with Fortegra in December 2020 for his new dining table. Around 
eight months later he noticed a small chip in the surface, so he claimed under his policy. 
Fortegra sent a technician to inspect the damage and accepted the claim was for accidental 
damage.
The table wasn't made of the material Mr H thought it was so before progressing his claim 
he wanted to speak with the retailer. In October 2021, he asked Fortegra to go ahead with 
the claim.
Fortegra said it couldnt repair the damage so it would contact the retailer for replacement 
availability. In November, Fortegra offered Mr H a like-for-like replacement or a cash 
settlement to live with the damage. The offer was in line with the warranty terms and 
conditions. A month later, Mr H chose the replacement table and a few weeks after that 
Fortegra placed the order.
The estimated delivery date was set for May 2022.
Mr H contacted Fortegra when the delivery date had passed, and it confirmed that it was an 
estimate only. Delivery was confirmed for the following month.
Unfortunately, the replacement table was damaged on receipt, so Mr H contacted Fortegra 
again. Fortegra said the damage was the retailers responsibility, but it offered Mr H £50 
compensation for the delays and another cash settlement or replacement. But Mr H was 
unhappy with the compensation offer and the further delay for another replacement. He 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Fortegra had handled the claim in line with the terms of the policy, 
but he didnt think its offer of £50 compensation was enough in light of the delays evidenced. 
He proposed an additional £150, bringing the compensation to £200.
Fortegra agreed to this, but Mr H didnt think it was enough. He said hed been without use 
of a table for three months before the replacement, and he couldnt wait another three 
months for the second replacement. He said the situation had caused him and his young 
family distress, so he had to buy a replacement table. Mr H wanted a refund of the purchase 
price of his original table, and he asked for £615 compensation. 
Our investigator asked Fortegra whether it was prepared to increase its offer, but it declined 
because it had already issued a cash settlement to Mr H which included the original cost of 
his table. Fortegra also said Mr H still had use of his original table with the small surface 
chip, so any inconvenience was likely to be minimal. 
Our investigator considered the evidence again and recommended increasing the 
compensation by a further £150, bringing the total to £350. Fortegra didnt agree. It said the 
investigators first proposal was fair and it would still agree to that outcome.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint but with a different outcome to that proposed by our investigator. Heres what I 
said:
provisional findings
Theres no dispute that Mr H had a valid claim under his warranty. The issue is that he 
doesnt think Fortegra handled his claim within a reasonable timescale, and he experienced 
further problems after the claim shouldve been settled.
The period from Mr Hs claim to receipt of the first replacement table was around nine 
months. Looking at the timeline, two months of that was due to Mr H trying to resolve 
something with the retailer directly and his delay letting Fortegra know whether he wanted a 
replacement. I see Fortegra didnt place the order immediately, causing a few weeks delay. 
And then there was a further month delay from the estimated delivery date to the actual 
delivery. The time up to then was waiting for availability with the supplier. I cant fairly hold 
Fortegra responsible for the first four months waiting for the table to become available 
because Mr H accepted the waiting time when he agreed to the replacement option. But I 
agree that Fortegra did cause some delays over the whole process of around three months. 
Moving on to the second part of the claim, I accept that Mr H wouldve been frustrated at 
receiving a damaged replacement table. While I cant hold Fortegra directly responsible for 
the damage, it is responsible for settling the overall claim. Therefore, its reasonable that Mr 
H expected Fortegra to put matters right rather than be directed back to the supplier. 
Looking at the offers Fortegra made, Im satisfied that they remained in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. But Mr H no longer wanted a replacement table because of the further 
delays that would incur. I can understand he felt that way and that he just wanted the matter 
settled.
As it stands, Fortegra has paid Mr H a cash settlement of £599, which was the full value of 
his dining table as new. Fortegra has also agreed to pay £200 compensation for its part in 
the delays and inconvenience caused.
Ive thought about whether compensation of almost £800 is enough in light of the service 
shortfalls and inconvenience caused. During the claim period, Mr H hasnt been without use 
of a dining table for any great length of time, if at all. Thats because Fortegra didnt remove 
the chipped table until the day the replacement was delivered, so Mr H had full use of the 
table until the end of June. And I see he bought a new table at the end of July which was a 
week or so before the damaged replacement table was removed. Id expect Mr H to take 
reasonable steps to minimise the impact on him and his family while Fortegra handled his 
claim, so I dont think its a shortfall in service on Fortegras part that Mr H chose to buy a 
new table rather than wait for another replacement. And given his dissatisfaction with the 
material out of which his original table was made, I cant say that theres evidence of a loss 
there. 
So, I dont think the evidence shows any significant inconvenience or distress caused by 
Fortegra, or any significant avoidable delays. Therefore, I dont think its reasonable to 
increase the overall award to £949, nor is it reasonable to increase it to £1,214, which is 
what Mr H has asked for.I said I was planning to ask Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd to pay Mr H £200 
compensation in recognition of the avoidable delays and inconvenience caused during its 
handling of his claim. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fortegra had nothing further to add.
Mr H responded to say that consideration hadnt been given to Fortegras decision to refund 
the cost of the table only after he brought the complaint to this service. Mr H also said he 
paid for the replacement table on his credit card, and it was almost three months before 
Fortegra paid him under his policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint, but I wont be asking Fortegra to 
increase its compensation payment.
I looked again at the evidence to decide whether Mr Hs comments made a difference to the 
outcome. As I said in my provisional decision, Fortegra offered a second replacement table 
in line with the policy terms and conditions, and I cant hold it responsible for Mr Hs decision 
to buy a new table instead. 
While there was a small delay between Mr H buying the table and Fortegra issuing payment 
under the policy, thats not something I can address here. Thats because it was a matter 
settled after Mr H brought the complaint to our service and Fortegra hasnt had an 
opportunity to respond directly.
In summary, and for the reasons Ive already given, Im satisfied that £200 adequately 
addresses the avoidable delays and inconvenience caused during Fortegras handling of Mr 
Hs claim. Therefore, I wont be asking it to increase the payment.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd must:
pay Mr H £200 compensation in recognition of the avoidable delays and 
inconvenience caused during its handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman