DRN-2695353
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to make an offer to settle his on-going claim. 
What happened
Mr A has an on-going income protection claim with Unum where he receives a regular 
income because hes too unwell to work. Mr A said that Unum unfairly made an offer to 
settle his claim because the settlement value wasnt as much as he would have anticipated  
it was only around seven times his annual salary. Mr A highlighted that his policy could 
provide regular payments up until hes 65 years of age  meaning he could potentially 
receive benefit over the next 25 years. Mr A explained that his condition is degenerative and 
so its unlikely hell return to work as a result.
Mr A said that Unum simply tried to avoid its responsibilities by offering a settlement amount 
which was significantly less value than he expected. Mr A said that Unum wouldnt offer any 
explanation on how it reached that figure, nor would it offer any financial advice, or funding 
for advice, so that he could discuss this with a suitably qualified adviser. Mr A said that 
Unum had tried to conceal its reasons for doing this and that its behaved dishonestly.
Unum said that it made the offer to Mr As employer, which is the policy holder, and that this 
offer was made outside of the contract terms. It explained that its able to do this, provided 
the policy holder agrees. Unum said it made the offer because it was aware the on-going 
assessments, that determined whether Mr A continued to meet the policy terms, were 
causing him trouble and upset and so it wanted to provide an alternative solution  which 
was the settlement. It said there was no further obligation to give any financial advice, other 
than to suggest Mr A seek independent financial advice. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that Unum was entitled to make 
the offer to bring the claim to an end and that the reasons given were acceptable. He 
clarified the relationship between Mr A, being the beneficiary of his employers policy, and 
that his employer was the policy holder. He explained that this was important because it 
limited some of the complaint points he brought to this service. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view. Ive summarised the key arguments below.  
Within the pensions industry, theres an expectation on firms to offer financial advice 
when making decisions of this magnitude and whether to accept large amounts of 
money. He also made arguments about whether the insurer had a duty of care to 
provide funding so that he could discuss the settlement with an independent financial 
adviser;
Unum simply attempted to avoid its commitment of paying his on-going claim. He 
disagreed with the reasons given behind its decision and suggested its motive was to 
effectively pay him off. He highlighted the significant difference in the potential value 
of his claim and the settlement amount offered as evidence of this. 
Unum hasnt adequately explained how it calculated the offer, including what factors 
were considered and so he doesnt feel the offer was fairly considered;
Mr A would like Unum to apologise and pay him compensation for the way its handled this 
issue. He explained that this has impacted his health as hes felt extremely fatigued and 
suffered significant weakness since the stress of having to raise his concerns. There were 
also other arguments presented by Mr A, which Ive not listed, but have considered. I believe 
the above arguments to be central to the issues being complained about and so I wont go 
into any further detail on the other points raised. Its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already given by our investigator, but, in summary, I dont believe that Unum has made an 
error here, or treated Mr A unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Unum must handle claims promptly and fairly. And so, I think it worth highlighting that Mr As 
claim is on-going and that Unum has continued to make regular payment during this time. 
Unum, like other insurers, from time to time may review a claim and decide to make an offer 
to settle it. This is standard industry practice and so its not done anything wrong by doing 
this. Further, the contract of insurance is between Unum and Mr As employer, not Mr A 
directly. This is important because it adequately explains why Unum may not always engage 
with, or respond directly to Mr A. 
The offer was made to Mr As employer for the reason Ive just explained. Because it 
constituted a potential change in terms of the contract, Unum had to seek permission from 
its policy holder in order to do this. Its then for the policy holder to communicate this to Mr A. 
The settlement figure was shared with Mr A and although I accept his level of feeling toward 
this, theres no obligation on Unum to provide any further rationale or support beyond what 
was given. I note Mr As arguments about Unum making the offer unfairly, or that it wanted 
to effectively discharge its responsibilities and save vast amounts of money, but theres no 
evidence that persuades me thats the case here. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests that Unum wanted to make the offer to ease the stress of 
the regular reviews. Theres no other reason given for making the settlement. And so, I dont 
think its done anything wrong here. 
Mr As concerns about the value of the proposed settlement arent something I can comment 
on, for the same reasons already explained by the investigator. This offer was made outside 
of the policy terms and therefore Im satisfied it doesnt form part of the regulated agreement. 
I have, however, considered Unums conduct surrounding the offer and I didnt find any 
evidence of any wrong doing or unfair treatment. I say that because when the offer was 
made to the policy holder, there were no unfair terms, or pressure to accept the offer, and 
the regular payments afforded by the policy continued to be made. I should also say that Ive 
not seen any dialogue between Unum and the policy holder where further clarification of the 
settlement amount was discussed.
I wanted to acknowledge the arguments Mr A made about the industry rules surrounding 
pensions firms and the way those payments are planned for and made to consumers, 
however, its not relevant to the body of this decision. I say that because those rules are for 
pensions and whilst I understand the connection hes attempting to make here, this complaint is about income protection and so Im not going to comment any further on that 
point. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman