DRN-3662774
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC, (referred to as Barclays or the business) 
about his experience of the Smart Investor Platform.
In short, he says Barclays made an error that allowed him to trade when he shouldnt have 
been able to do so, and it failed to recognise the issue for six months which is unacceptable. 
It thereafter failed to take remedial action making matters worse.
Mr M would like Barclays to pay for the losses claimed as well as significant compensation 
for distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mr M has an investment ISA with Barclays  he generally day-trades in FTSE 100 
companies like BP and Glencore. He says he trades on a matched basis, buying a specific 
number of stock and later selling that specific number.  
In April 2021, Mr M says he bought Glencore shares to sell and make a profit, and an 
additional incentive was that the shares would provide a dividend income. When this was 
due, I understand that Barclays made a manual amendment to his account. In short this 
involved removing a ringfence, which enabled Mr M to make incorrect/unauthorised trades  
buy shares that he didnt have  as a consequence his account was left in an incorrect 
position. 
Barclays concedes that on 27 May 2021, its mistakenly allowed Mr M to sell 24,512 
Glencore shares he didnt have, but Mr M isnt persuaded that its correct  Mr M also points 
out that the same mistake was made again in May 2022 because the initial issue hadnt 
been remedied.  
On 10 November 2021, Mr Ms account balance reduced by £90,000. Mr M believes 
Barclays (erroneously) removed shares from his account to correct the previous error, 
resulting in a negative share balance and freezing his account. He believes Barclays 
effectively stole the shares from his account and failed to notify him of the negative account 
balance, even though it knew this before November 2021. His account was only unblocked 
after he bought shares and having done so he made a profit on the account. 
In any case, he feels strongly that the money taken should be returned. Despite complaining 
to Barclays, he still hasnt received a clear explanation of what happened, and hes left 
unsure of the correct position. Hes expecting Barclays to return 24,512 shares unless 
Barclays can prove it was his fault. 
Mr M maintains that hes been unable to trade since and hasnt been able to return to 
normal trading until January 2022, and hes managed himself out of the incorrect position 
as best as he can. Nevertheless, hes lost out financially as hes not been able to trade as 
normal. Mr M would like compensation for his losses claimed, as well as compensation for 
the significant distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Barclays definitely accepts that it got things wrong. It said Mr Ms trading pattern 
created problems calculating Glencore dividend  however, it didnt warn Mr M that 
his trading might cause problems. 
In his view, he hasnt looked at whether Barclays got anything wrong, because it 
accepts it has. Hes concentrated on the impact of Barclays mistake, and what it 
needs to do to put things right.  
At the close of trading on 26 May 2021, Mr M held 42,112 Glencore shares. On 27 
May 2021, he sold an additional 24,512 shares, leaving his account with a negative 
share balance. This is supported by Barclays internal screenshots for that day. 
Having cross-referenced this with Mr Ms quarterly account statement for 1 April 2021 
to 30 June 2021, he found the statement confirmed that on 27 May 2021, Mr Ms 
trading reduced his holdings of Glencore by 66,624 shares  this effectively matches 
what Barclays says. In other words, 42,112 shares minus 66,624 leaves -24,512 
shares. So, Barclays account is correct. 
Despite what Mr M says about not being able to sell shares he didnt have because 
of his matched trading system. He also said:
oWhen the market is very volatile, one tends to buy or sell without checking 
every penny and assuming that Barclays would stop me from buying if I did 
not have the cash; and I did not keep records of them for that period and I 
trusted Barclays. 
It seems Mr M placed the orders believing that the system would prevent any 
overselling. But as a result of the error by Barclays, overselling was permitted.  
On 10 November 2021, Mr Ms account balance suddenly decreased. Based on what 
he says, it seems his account balance showed around £310,000 at the start of the 
day, however when he logged back in later, the value had decreased by around 
£90,000. Mr M believes this was due to Barclays removing 24,512 Glencore shares 
from his account.  
Barclays says it didnt remove any shares/cash from Mr Ms account that day. 
Instead, it says that the account was previously showing an incorrect figure because 
the automated calculation of the overall balance isnt designed to reflect a negative 
position. 
Its understandable given the issues hes experienced, that Mr M doesnt accept 
Barclays statements or calculations as accurate for the relevant period. But on the 
face of the available evidence  between the screenshots, statements (going back to 
2019), and Barclays explanation  this creates a clear and cohesive picture of what 
happened. 
Based on the statements going back to 2019, tracking the balance over time, he cant 
see how an account balance of £310,000 couldve been correct. 
Barclays says that by overselling 24,512 shares on 27 May 2021, Mr M made an 
extra £5,394. He used this cash to continue buying Glencore shares, enabling him to 
make a profit. Barclays calculated the overall benefit to be between £51,000 and 
£59,000. 
Its likely Mr M wouldve traded differently, if hed been made aware of the error, but 
its difficult to know what he wouldve done. 
Mr M contributes £20,000 cash annually and doesnt take any regular withdrawals 
from the account. The overall picture suggests that in 2019, his account value 
increased by around £27,000 and in 2020 by around £15,000. In 2021, the account 
value increased by around £78,000. He understands that 2020 is likely to have been 
affected by Covid, and other issues effecting the market. However, the statement 
doesnt support Mr Ms claim that making £30,000 profit per quarter, particularly 
considering the annual cash contributions. The additional cash Mr M received in 2021 resulted in significant increased profit for 
him. Initially in the form of additional cash from the oversold shares, and later 
compounded gains from investing the cash. 
In terms of redress, Barclays has already made clear that it wont be asking for any 
additional profit back because of its mistake. It also confirmed that it overpaid Mr M a 
dividend of £4,571 which it also wont be asking him to pay back. 
Because Mr M isnt financially worse off as a result of the error. He wont be asking 
the business to pay any compensation for losses claimed. The gains are also greater 
than any payment hed be making for distress and inconvenience, so in the 
circumstances hes not going to award and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Moving forwards, it seems Mr M would like to transfer his account elsewhere but 
hasnt made an attempt to do so. In any case Barclays will provide a valuation if he 
decides to move.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
His firm belief is that the investigator hasnt read all the information. Especially the 
point about quote and deal, which Barclays said theyd leave with our service. 
Barclays should have to pay a penalty for what it has done. Its not appropriate to 
simply return him as the investor to the position he wouldve been in but for the error. 
He doesnt understand why our service has chosen to treat his complaints  the 
current complaint, and the quote and deal complaint  as separate complaints.  
In a nutshell, Barclays erroneously removed the ringfence allowing him to make 
incorrect trades  this is the key to the complaint - and he wasnt even aware/made 
aware that Barclays had made a manual amendment, that left his account in the 
incorrect position. 
In respect of the error, caused by inadequate systems, process and controls, 
Barclays was wrong and should be penalised and stopped from doing this again. If it 
hadnt been for Barclays error, he wouldnt be in this position at all.  
Because he managed to mitigate his loss by trading profitably, Barclays benefitted 
by not having to pay compensation. He questions what wouldve happened if hed 
lost thousands of pounds in the longer term. 
Barclays made an error in May 2021, which created negative shares on his account, 
which manifested itself as cash  in the sum of £60,000  from dividend income 
which subsequently enabled him to buy more shares than he shouldve been able to. 
The error took six months to notice and this was only by luck. 
In reference to his other (separate) complaint, its possible that the shares may have 
been less than 24,512 shares. 
In any case, Barclays has never explained why the error happened. He questions 
why Barclays  a regulated financial institution  hasnt been punished for such a 
major failing and discouraged from doing so again? 
He doesnt accept that he sold shares that he didnt have. He also doesnt accept 
Barclays calculation regarding loss. Its not what he expected from an institution like 
Barclays  it shouldve told him if his trading pattern was creating problems.  
In relation to 27 May 2021, Mr M thinks he may have had around 47,721 shares, 
including BP, and Rolls Royce, not just Glencore, but he cant be sure.
Barclays supporting screenshots are post-dated the incident  after its script fix  so 
its no surprise the data supports its case. The same applied to the quarterly account 
statements referred to by the investigator. But the Glencore share price increased 
several times  he sold shares throughout the day which was hectic and difficult to 
keep track of. Despite what the investigator says, his findings dont match 24,512 
shares sold on 10 November 2021.   With hindsight, he believes Barclays added a negative share balance to his account 
in error. He believes there were less than 24,512 shares, and Barclays assumed all 
the shares were Glencore, when they probably werent.  
He maintains it wouldve been impossible for him to sell shares he didnt have. 
He accepts that on 10 November 2021, his account balance suddenly decreased, by 
around £90,000 worth of shares  which hes had to replace at a higher price. He 
doesnt accept that the figure (of around £310,000) from earlier on in the day was an 
error. The statement referred to by the investigator is provided post the event. 
According to his trading sheet, Barclayss version of events is incorrect, as is the 
information provided by it. 
Whilst he wouldve suffered far greater losses had he not done anything hes not in 
agreement with the calculations carried out by the business because of the quote 
and deal complaint  which is a separate complaint.
Hes prepared to return the capital. Looking at his trading history for the past two 
years its possible to see that he had a different investment pattern. 
Him making a profit is simply down to sheer incompetence on the part of Barclays. 
He originally received extra cash (in the form of negative shares), purchased shares 
and sold the shares on a matching basis. His continued trading as before is 
irrelevant. 
Barclays not asking Mr M to return any profit should absolutely be the case  its 
money thats already his. Although he has no issue returning the original sum. 
Based on what the investigator says in terms of redress, it would seem according to 
our service Barclays has done nothing wrong and are a beacon for financial 
institutions to follow. 
Hed like to transfer his funds, and hed like Barclays to include the stolen shares  
the £90,000 discrepancy. Most firms accept a 10% tolerance, but this isnt the case 
here. Hes also considering just selling the shares to avoid the hassle altogether. 
Hell never use our service again and will never recommend us to anyone ever again 
either. 
Overall, this complaint has taken months to deal with and his complaint about May 
2022 hasnt even been addressed by the business. 
The £800 compensation offered by Barclays  in relation to the multiple errors (in 
relation to the other complaint), the impact on him and the time taking to deal with the 
complaint in relation to the other complaint  is derisory compared to everything that 
hes been through. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said: 
Its not for us to set aside our usual processes and make an award that punishes the 
business  thats the role of the industry regulator. 
As an alternative dispute resolution service, its not our role to punish a business or 
award punitive damages. Our role is to place the customer back in the position they 
wouldve been in had they not done anything wrong. 
Its obvious that Barclays got things wrong so its not something he needs to look 
into. Instead hes looked at how things went wrong and the impact this has had on 
him.   
The May 2022 complaint will be dealt with as a separate complaint once Mr M is 
ready to refer the complaint to this service.    
Mr M has subsequently provided a number of points, in addition to his previous submissions, 
that hed also like me to consider. As no agreement has been reached the matter has been 
passed to me for review.As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, and for much the same reasons 
Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
As Barclays has already upheld the complaint, the key issues for me to consider is redress, 
and whether or not its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, I think the overall 
redress is broadly fair and reasonable, therefore Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything 
further. 
In other words, I think Barclays allowing Mr M to keep the money that he received from the 
sale of the (non-existent) shares, because it removed the ringfence, as well as the profits he 
subsequently made from reinvesting that money, is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I also think the business allowing Mr M to keep the dividend payment is 
broadly fair and reasonable.  
The above notwithstanding, Im not persuaded that Barclays stole £90,000 worth of shares 
from Mr Ms account, which is separate to the above. Despite what Mr M might think, this 
wasnt the business taking back the value of the non-existent shares. 
On face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that the system 
was re-adjusting itself to display the correct figure, which was different to the one Mr M saw 
earlier that day  its possible that negative shares had an impact on the systems ability to 
display the correct figure at the outset. Im not persuaded that Barclays took out/sold any 
stock from Mr Ms account. Despite what Mr M says, him choosing to replace the missing 
shares, at a greater cost, is a matter for him. I dont think the business is responsible for his 
action. 
In this instance, and on balance, the benefit that the business has allowed Mr M to keep is 
reasonable, and over and above any compensation hes likely to receive for distress and 
inconvenience. 
 
In other words, in this instance, it doesnt seem fair to ask the business to pay additional 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, given its position overall with regards to the 
additional shares sold and subsequent money made. In my opinion it more than 
compensates him for the distress and inconvenience he wouldve suffered as a result of the 
mistake of the business. If Mr M had been made to return the shares and/or cash, I wouldve 
decided differently. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Its not my role to punish a business; 
thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Im aware that theres a separate complaint thats been dealt with by the investigator that Ill 
consider in due course. But its not necessary for me to comment upon it in reaching a 
decision in this case. Im also aware of the May 2022 issue that Mr M refers to, and possibly 
not yet dealt with by the business. I understand the investigator has told him to refer the 
matter separately if he still wishes to pursue it, which Mr M is yet to do. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that this whole situation arose as 
a result of Barclays (erroneously) removing the ring fence from Mr Ms account, allowing him 
to sell (additional) shares that he shouldnt have been able to. 
I note Barclays quite rightly concedes its responsible for this error in which it carried out Mr 
Ms instructions to sell shares he didnt have without realising  I dont think theres any 
argument that Barclays failed to be more cautious. Whilst I agree with the investigator that 
Mr M placed the order, believing that the system would prevent any overselling, its not 
entirely clear why he thought he could sell shares that he didnt have.  
I note based on Mr Ms quarterly account statement for 1 April 2021 to 30 June 2021, on 27 
May 2021 his trading reduced his holdings of Glencore shares by 66,624 shares in line with 
what Barclays says. In other words, 42,112 shares minus 66,624 leaves -24,512 shares. I 
know Mr M says this couldnt have happened if he didnt have the shares, but on the face of 
the evidence Im satisfied it did. 
On balance, Im also satisfied that Mr M had 42,112 shares in his account at the time. I 
appreciate he says he thinks he had more (but cant be sure as it was a long time ago) but in 
the circumstances, and on balance, I think its unlikely that he did. 
Despite what Mr M says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays added a negative 
balance to his account in error, or that there were less than 24,512 additional shares sold, or 
that Barclays (wrongly) assumed all the shares were Glencore when they werent. Despite 
what Mr M says, Ive seen no evidence that it has done anything wrong other than selling 
(additional) shares that he didnt have.
Im aware that matters were made worse, as neither party was aware of the mistake for 
nearly six months, and Mr M continued trading until the error came to light. But this of itself 
doesnt mean that the whole system isnt fit for purpose. Im aware that Barclays was having 
some difficulty dealing with Mr Ms trading style, and in the circumstances, I think it couldve 
done more to let him know/manage his expectations about what it could and couldnt do 
comfortably.  
The above notwithstanding, I dont think Barclays knew that there was an issue with the 
account in terms of the negative shares and therefore couldnt have told him before the 
matter came to light. Any suggestion that Barclays knew of this issue, but deliberately didnt 
tell Mr M is not a conclusion that I can reach in this instance.  
I appreciate that on 10 November 2021, the account balance suddenly decreased. But I 
dont this this was done in error. I think its more likely than not Barclays was fixing the 
mistaken value Mr M had seen earlier on. On balance Im satisfied this didnt involve 
Barclays selling any shares, rather it was simply a case of the system adjusting itself in order to display the correct figure. I note Barclays maintains that automated calculation of the 
overall balance isnt designed to reflect a negative position.
I note that on 1 October 2021, the statement for that quarter showed a total value of 
£210,585 and on 31 December 2021, the statement showed a value of £234,676. There was 
no transaction for 10 November 2021 or 11 November 2021 which would justify Mr Ms 
complaint. I appreciate Mr M says, this is a statement provided post the event, but I can only 
go on the evidence provided, and Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays has doctored the 
statement by taking out transactions that happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not the figure of 
£310,000 that Mr M saw was incorrect. But unlike Mr M, Im persuaded by Barclays 
explanation of whats likely to have happened. I dont agree with Mr M that the evidence from 
Barclays is incorrect or unreliable  Ive seen nothing to suggest that it is. 
Despite what Mr M says, I cant say that he hasnt been treated fairly by the business after 
the errors were found out. Also, just because it may have had difficulty managing his style of 
trading doesnt mean that this complaint should be upheld. 
Despite what Mr M says, I dont think Barclays benefitted from him mitigating his losses  I 
note it has effectively relinquished all rights over the additional shares he sold that he 
shouldnt have been able to sell, and the subsequent profits made  which is mainly why I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
In this instance it seems Mr M benefitted from the error  and he hasnt suffered additional 
losses that he couldve, albeit owing mainly to his sensible trading. Barclays doesnt have to 
pay him for losses that he hasnt suffered. 
Im mindful of what Mr M says about his trading, but this is an execution only platform and 
its arguable that he couldve traded in any way he liked. Despite what he says, I cant ignore 
that he made some significant profits.  
In the circumstances and on balance, Im not surprised that Mr M remains unconvinced and 
dissatisfied with Barclayss response, but I dont think its explanation is unreasonable. I note 
hes raised issues  drawing parallels between the two complaints  but I think the issues 
are separate and have quite rightly been dealt with as such.   
Despite what Mr M says, I cant safely say that Barclays made a mistake and then took steps 
to cover its tracks  which included stealing shares from his account  so that it didnt have 
to pay him any compensation. Despite what he says, on the face of the evidence, thats not 
a conclusion that I can reach. 
I note Mr M is very unhappy that Barclays hasnt provide a better explanation as to why it 
made the error in the first place. But just because it hasnt been able to provide an 
explanation thats satisfactory to Mr M, doesnt mean that it hasnt provided an explanation 
or that the complaint should be upheld. The above notwithstanding, Im very sorry for the 
time it has taken to deal with this complaint.  
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think the redress paid by 
Barclays is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman