DRN-3878540
The complaint
Mr T complains about the handling of his claim and poor service provided by Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here again 
in detail. In summary, in March 2022 Mr T was involved in a road traffic accident. Following 
communication with the third-party insurer Mr T reported the claim to Advantage a few days 
later. Mr T told Advantage the third party had been following closely and hadnt kept the 
correct distance behind is vehicle. Mr Ts vehicle was hit from behind, and he felt the third 
party was liable for causing the accident.
Mr T says Advantage failed to appropriately respond to his claim and took too long. He was 
also unhappy that Advantage had renewed his policy with no warning and is now chasing 
him for payment following the cancellation of the policy. He also says Advantage increased 
his premiums at the renewal of his policy even though he had a protected no claims bonus.
Mr T didnt receive a response to his complaints from Advantage so referred the complaint to 
our service. Advantage responded to us and said it hadnt acted unfairly in dealing with the 
claim or the service it provided in regard to the renewal of the policy and subsequent 
requests for payment of the outstanding arrears on the account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Advantage hadnt acted unreasonably 
in the way it had handled the claim and the time taken. She also felt the policy was correctly 
renewed and Advantage had acted fairly in chasing the payment of the outstanding 
premiums. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr T feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Mr T has the following main complaint points:
The time taken by Advantage to deal with the claim, 
The renewal of his policy without his knowledge, 
The increase in his premiums even though he had a protected no claims bonus, and
Chasing him for the outstanding premiums
Claim handling 
Mr T says as his vehicle was struck from behind the third party should have been held liable 
and his vehicle should have been repaired sooner, and he shouldnt have to pay an excess. 
This service doesnt decide liability for an accident; thats a matter for the courts. But we do 
consider whether an insurer, Advantage in this case, acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and made a fair decision. Mr Ts policy says that Advantage is entitled to take over 
and deal with a claim on his behalf. Its a common term in motor insurance policies. And 
wed expect it to be applied fairly.
So, Ive considered whether Advantage has treated Mr T fairly and reasonably when dealing 
with the claim. To be clear I havent considered Advantages final decision on liability or how 
it has decided to settle the claim. Thats because it seems Advantage only made that 
decision after Mr T had referred this complaint to our service and so any complaint about the 
final settlement or liability decision reached by Advantage doesnt form part of this complaint. 
What I am considering here is if Advantage acted reasonably in the action and time it took so 
far to investigate the claim and liability. 
Mr T provided Advantage with his version of events and why he felt the third party was at 
fault for the accident. But Advantage was given a differing version of events by the third-
party insurer. As the versions varied considerably Advantage instructed its solicitors to 
investigate the incident. Advantage told Mr T who it had appointed to deal with the claim. 
During the process of the investigations the solicitors obtained evidence from three 
independent witnesses and also CCTV footage of the accident. This was considered 
alongside the version of events put forward by both parties. The solicitors werent convinced 
Mr T was completely blameless in regard to causing the accident and thought he may have 
caused it by braking unexpectedly. The solicitors advised Advantage not to provide a repair 
service for Mr Ts car because they felt he may have been negligent in inducing the accident. 
Advantage went on to consider this information and I understand that the claim has now 
been settled. Im satisfied that in coming to its decision Advantage would have needed to 
consider the differing version of events, the independent witness evidence, and the CCTV 
footage. So this wouldnt have been a straightforward claim for it to consider. It was 
ultimately for Advantage to decide on the likely liability of Mr T or the third party, in line with 
the terms and conditions, so it needed to ensure it had adequately considered all the 
information before deciding on the claim and liability. 
In the circumstances I dont think Advantage acted unreasonably in the time it took to come 
to a decision on the claim or taking the time it did to decide on the liability. 
Renewal of the policy and seeking payment for outstanding premiums   
Mr T told us he wasnt provided a copy of his renewal and Advantage shouldnt have 
renewed the policy without notifying him. Advantage has provided us with a copy of its 
internal records  these show that the renewal proposal was sent to Mr T on 16 April 2022. 
The internal records also show the policy was renewed on 15 May 2022 and subsequently 
cancelled on 12 June 2022.  
Advantage have sent us a copy of the renewal letter sent to Mr T, it confirms the renewal 
date and that the policy would automatically renew. It also says if Mr T doesnt want to 
automatically renew or wanted to discuss the renewal, he should contact Advantage. Im satisfied that Advantage took reasonable steps to notify Mr T of his renewal because this 
information was sent to his email address and the letters provided are also correctly 
addressed to him. And so, it follows that I dont think it acted unfairly in renewing the policy 
when Mr T didnt contact Advantage. 
The policy was cancelled on 12 June 2022, almost a month after it was renewed. As Mr T 
was on cover with Advantage during this time, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to ask 
Mr T for the premiums for this period or for it to chase him for them when they werent paid. I 
can see Advantage contacted Mr T on a number of occasions to resolve the issues, but it 
hasnt been able to come to a resolution with him. 
So again, Im satisfied that Advantage didnt act unfairly in referring the outstanding debt to 
its debt collection agency because the payment remained outstanding. 
Increased premiums
I think itll help to explain that insurers base the cost of their policies on many different 
factors  one of which will include the claims history of the policyholder.
The reason for the increase in premium would have been because Mr T had an accident in 
the year prior to the renewal. At the time of renewal, the fault of the claim hadnt been 
decided so this is likely to have been noted against his policy  this isnt unreasonable in the 
circumstances and is common practice in most policies of this type. I do think Advantage 
have acted fairly in charging the extra premium. Id expect any claim to potentially affect the 
cost of future premiums. 
Ive seen Mr T says because hes got a protected no claims bonus, he shouldnt be charged 
anything extra. But the protected no claims bonus simply means his no claims bonus hasnt 
been affected by the claim hes had to make. He has though still had to make a claim  
which is a separate factor in the premium pricing. So overall I think its likely the increase in 
premiums would have been carried out fairly.
I understand Mr T feels very strongly about this and he will be disappointed with this 
outcome. I know he believes the third party to be at fault for what happened. But, as Ive 
explained, itd be for a court of law to decide liability. What Ive looked at is whether 
Advantage acted fairly in the approach and time it took to handle the claim and policy 
renewal. And if it has followed the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. And Im 
satisfied it has. So, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything further in relation to this 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman