DRN-3194114
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Miss M says AXA France IARD mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA France made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the store card application form 
that Miss M filled in. The form had a separate section for PPI with yes and no boxes 
that had to be ticked to either request or decline the policy. Miss M has ticked the yes 
box to confirm that she wanted PPI.
Miss M says that AXA France advised her to buy the PPI. However, the policy was sold 
to her by staff in the shop and I find it unlikely that the sales assistant would have 
provided personalised financial advice. As AXA France didnt recommend the PPI to 
Miss M, it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to 
give Miss M enough clear and timely information so she could decide for herself if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss M. Miss M has 
confirmed that she was in continuous employment for more than six months prior to the 
sale, so she was eligible for the policy. Although Miss M says she had a medical 
condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information 
about the existing medical condition exclusion would have caused her to change her 
mind about taking out the policy. I say this because Miss M had an operation in January 
1995 that fully resolved her issues and she has confirmed that she had fully recovered 
by the time she took out the PPI in August 1995. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Miss M would have declined the cover had AXA France done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA France should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA France doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman