DRN-2375326
The complaint
Ms M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account. The account was sold in January 2000.
Ms M says it was mis-sold, as she says she was led to believe she had to agree to the 
account to increase her credit score which would enable her to get credit so she could buy a 
car. Ms M says that none of the benefits had been explained to her and she was not made 
aware of the exclusions that applied to those benefits either.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Advantage gold account 
(which was later rebranded to a Select Platinum account in July 2015) was mis-sold. Ms M 
disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ms complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think the Advantage Gold packaged account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ms M has said that she was mis-sold the Advantage Gold account as she was told itd 
improve her chance of obtaining credit. Ms M says that she was looking to buy a car at the 
time, so securing credit to buy the car was important to her at the time. 
Unfortunately, as the event that Ms M has complained about happened over twenty years 
ago, there is only limited information available from the time of the sale. However, from what 
I do know about the Advantage Gold account at the time, I understand it cost £6 per month 
and provided several benefits, such as reduced interest rates on personal loans and 
overdrafts. 
Its clear that Ms M was intending to borrow money when she agreed to the Advantage Gold 
account. And given that the Advantage Gold account provided discounts on loans and 
overdrafts, I think its just as likely, if not more so, that Ms M agreed to the account so that 
she could secure a lower rate of interest on any borrowing. And I can see that when Ms M 
did go on to apply for loans, albeit a few years later in 2003, she did receive a lower rate of 
interest on her loan than if she didnt have the Advantage Gold account.
Ms M says she only agreed to the Advantage Gold account because she was told that it 
would improve her credit score. But I can see that prior to agreeing to the account, she had a 
£100 overdraft facility on a fee-free account. Ms M was able to increase the limit to £500 in 
June 1999 i.e. whilst it was still a fee-free account. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Ms M had been declined for credit prior to applying for the Advantage Gold account. So 
I think Ms M was generally aware that she could obtain credit without needing to have an 
Advantage Gold account. So I dont see why she would believe that she needed her credit to 
improve.
Furthermore, as Ms M had increased her overdraft limit a few months before and again after 
agreeing to the Advantage Gold account, this suggests she was regularly using an overdraft 
around the time she agreed to the Advantage Gold account. And by having the Advantage 
Gold account, this meant that Ms M would not have to pay a monthly overdraft usage fee 
that was applicable to fee-free accounts at the time. It also meant shed pay less in overdraft 
interest too.
So taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that Ms M agreed to the 
Advantage Gold account because of the banking benefits it provided, rather than because 
she thought she had to have it to improve her credit score. 
I can see that Ms M did apply for a Gold credit card shortly after she took out the Advantage 
Gold account. Its not clear if this was only available to Advantage Gold account holders. 
Although I can see that prior to 2000, having the Advantage Gold account meant that a Gold 
credit card automatically included a £3,000 limit. Again I dont know if a similar benefit still 
existed in 2000. But even if it didnt, it looks like Ms M was still able to benefit from the 
banking benefits that were available on the account at the time.
Ive not seen anything to suggest the account was sold on an advised basis. This meant that 
NatWest didnt have to check whether the account would be right for Ms M. But it did still 
have to give her all of the important information about the account, so she could decide for 
herself whether it was worth having.
As Ive mentioned above, there is very little information about what was discussed during the 
sale, given how long ago it took place. But from what Ms M has said, it seems likely that she 
was at least given some information about the banking benefits provided by the account and 
the monthly fee for the account. I accept NatWest may not have given her all of the 
information it shouldve. But, as I think its likely Ms M agreed to the account for the banking 
benefits, I think its unlikely Ms M wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account had 
she been given more information about the other features it offered.
Ms M has said she was not made aware of the other features provided by the account when 
it was sold to her. However in 2000, the account provided very few insurance benefits, 
compared to what were added as benefits over the years she held it. For example, it did not 
provide breakdown cover until 2008 and mobile phone insurance was not added as a benefit 
until 2006. And at the time it was sold, it only provided travel insurance if Ms M booked a trip 
with a Gold credit card. 
So it seems that many of the benefits that Ms M says she was not made aware of, were not 
actually benefits at the time. I think this may explain why she does not recall being told much 
about the insurance benefits of the account. I understand the account did provide benefits 
such as extended warranty, card protection and purchase protection. And I accept that Ms M 
may not have had much need for these benefits. But as the account was sold as a package, 
Ms M was not able to pick and choose what it came with.I can see that Ms M has responded to the adjudicators assessment and insists she has not 
used the benefits provided by the account. And I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, 
she may feel that the account has been poor value for money, having been paying for it for a 
considerable number of years. But that does not mean that it was mis-sold, or that NatWest 
was wrong to have sold the account to her when it did. And although Ms M says that 
NatWest shouldve been checking if she still needed the account, it was not required to do 
that. 
What it was required to do was, from 2014, send her annual reminders of the insurance 
benefits and the eligibility requirements that applied to those products - so she could check 
that she was still eligible for the benefits. And NatWest has provided evidence to show that it 
was sending these reminders to Ms M and has done since January 2014. So I think NatWest 
was doing what it needed to, in terms of reminding Ms M about her account features, so she 
could decide for herself whether the account was still worth having.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think the Advantage Gold account was mis-
sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman