DRN-2959816
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that esure Insurance Limited avoided their motor insurance policies 
and refused to pay their claims.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out two motor insurance policies with esure to cover their two cars. And 
when their cars were stolen, they tried to make a claim on their policies. 
esure said they had not disclosed four fixed penalty notices for speeding when they came to 
renew their policies. It said, had they done so, due to its underwriting criteria, it would not 
have offered a renewal quote. It considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid their policies, decline their claims and return the 
premiums Mr and Mrs G had paid since renewing the policies.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us via a representative. Our investigator thought it 
should not be upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and 
agreed it was careless, and esure were entitled to avoid the policies and decline the claims.
Mr and Mrs G dont agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision for the following reasons: 
They accept it was an error on their part but say it was a genuine oversight. They 
said their premiums had increase each year which led them to assume that esure 
were aware of the speeding offences. 
Mr and Mrs G also say that the risk which materialised and resulted in the claims was 
not affected by the non-disclosure of their convictions, as such they think its unfair to 
avoid the policies entirely. 
They think a proportionate response would be for esure to accept the claim and 
deduct the additional premiums it would have charged had it been aware of the 
convictions when the policies were renewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive considered both policies in this decision as the key issues involved are the 
same. Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
esure thinks Mr and Mrs G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
because they didnt disclose that they had fixed penalty notices at the time of their renewals. 
Ive looked at the policy documents Mr and Mrs G were sent when each of their policies 
became due for renewal. I find their insurance schedules clearly set out that there were no 
fixed penalty notices disclosed. The documents also instructed them to check the 
information carefully and let esure know if anything was wrong. As such, I dont think Mr and 
Mrs G took reasonable care not to misrepresent information.
esure has provided its underwriting criteria which shows that if Mr and Mrs G had told it 
about their motoring convictions, it would not have been able to continue offering them 
insurance. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. As such 
we must consider whether it was deliberate, reckless or careless.
esure has said Mr and Mrs Gs misrepresentation was not deliberate or reckless, but it was 
careless. As I said, Im satisfied the policy documents clearly showed the information 
regarding their penalty notices was incorrect. Mr and Mrs G say it was a genuine error, they 
explained that they assumed esure was aware of their penalty notices. While I accept        
Mr and Mrs Gs explanation, they had a responsibility to check the renewal documents and 
ensure the information esure held was correct, but they didnt. So, I must agree that Mr and 
Mrs Gs misrepresentation was careless.
As Im satisfied their misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions esure can take in accordance with CIDRA. If having the correct information would 
have meant cover wouldnt have been provided, its entitled to treat a policy as though it 
never existed from the point of avoidance, not deal with any claim and to return any unused 
premiums paid.  
Mr and Mrs G say the risks the claims relate to arent impacted by the non-disclosure of the 
motoring convictions. While I appreciate their reasoning, esure has shown that it wouldnt 
have covered Mr and Mrs G in the first place. So, Im satisfied it was entitled to avoid their 
policies. And, as this means that, in effect, it can treat their policies as never existing, esure 
does not have to deal with their claims. And for the same reason, it doesnt need to consider 
charging an additional premium.
Considering all this, I find esures actions were in line with the remedies detailed in CIDRA, 
and its decision to avoid Mr and Mrs Gs policies and decline their claims was reasonable. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, but I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld and I wont ask esure to do anything differently. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman