DRN-3066951
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Lex Autolease Ltd, trading as 
Lex Autolease (Lex).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W acquired his van under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr W responsible for keeping the van in 
good repair and condition and explained that he would be responsible for any 
damage or deterioration of the vehicle beyond fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report. The BVRLA guidance says that scratches are acceptable if they are less than 
25mm and if the primer or bare metal is not showing. I think the scratches are all in 
excess of that standard and primer is visible. So, I think Lex have been reasonable 
levying charges for the scratches to the van. The guidance also says that dents are 
acceptable as long as they are less than 15mm in diameter and do not penetrate to 
the primer. I can see primer in the photograph of the dent on the tailgate and I 
therefore think Lex have been fair when making a charge for refurbishment of it.
Mr W has provided some photographs of the van before it was collected. He says the 
damage isnt evident although he accepts there is evidence of some limited damage 
to the tailgate. Id agree that the damage to the tailgate that is shown in the 
inspectors photographs is evidenced in Mr Ws photographs. It looks similar to that 
shown in the inspectors report and Im still persuaded its beyond what would be 
considered fair wear and tear. Mr Ws photographs dont unfortunately enable me to 
consider the other areas of damage in sufficient detail. So, Im not persuaded there is 
enough evidence in Mr Ws photographs that the damage wasnt present when the 
van was collected. I think its likely it was.
Mr W says he should have been allowed to carry out his own inspection to confirm or 
dispute the inspectors findings. But the BVRLA guidance doesnt expect businesses 
to allow that and I dont therefore think Lex have been unreasonable.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman