DRN-2727910
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from RCI Financial Services Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
RCIFS.
Mr M experienced issues with the car burning lots of oil. He reported his concerns to the 
supplying dealer in August 2019. The supplying dealer checked the car and said the amount 
of oil used fell inside the manufacturers guidelines of half a litre usage every 600 miles. 
Between the point of supply and the supplying dealer checking the car, Mr M had covered 
around 2500 miles. The supplying dealer checked for oil leaks but found nothing.
Mr M continued to experience excessive oil consumption and contacted the supplying dealer 
again. In September 2019 the supplying dealer tested the car by driving it for 600 miles over 
5 days. No leaks were found, and the supplying dealer said that oil usage was improved.
Mr M continued to experience issues with oil consumption. The car went back to the 
supplying dealer for a third time in January 2020. The supplying dealer drove the car for 200 
miles but found no faults. 
Mr M continued to experience the oil light illuminating and finding that the oil was empty. He 
had to call out a motor rescue organisation more than once.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, RCIFS said that the supplying dealer had tested the car 
and had found that the oil used was within the manufacturers guidelines. It declined Mr Ms 
request to reject the car.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think it was reasonable to expect to have to 
refill the oil so often and said that because of this the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The 
investigator said that Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
RCIFS didnt agree. It said the car was 5 years old with no history of oil issues. It didnt 
agree that there was a fault with the car and said the manufacturers handbook advised that it 
was normal to top up oil in between services, and that the car was operating as it should.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because RCIFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for purpose, 
safety and durability.
I would expect a second-hand car, such as that supplied to Mr M, to have a degree of wear 
and tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there is an 
inherent fault with the car, as opposed to an issue caused by general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months of the point 
of supply, its presumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to 
repair the car. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months 
the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Mr M and RCIFS disagree about whether the car has a fault which makes it of unsatisfactory 
quality. In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all of the available evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probability, whether the car is of satisfactory quality.
I can see that Mr M reported the issue with the oil consumption within the first 6 months. The 
car has been returned to the supplying dealer more than once. The information Ive seen 
suggest that on the second occasion that the car was returned to the supplying dealer in 
September 2020, the supplying dealer sough advice from the manufacturers technical 
department and applied a software update to the fuel injection system to assist with oil 
consumption. Having tested the car for around 600 miles following this repair, the supplying 
dealer advised Mr M that it had found no faults.
Ive looked at the information provided by Mr M. This includes photos of the oil light 
illuminated on the dashboard and an RAC breakdown report dated May 2020 which states 
that there was no oil in the car and that the coolant level should be checked.
Ive also taken into account Mr Ms testimony, which has been consistent throughout in 
relation to his repeated experience of having to top up the oil every 2 to 3 weeks.
The car hasnt been independent inspected. RCIFS has said that it hasnt been able to find 
an independent engineer who is willing to take the car on, given the amount of mileage 
required to establish the amount of oil being used. RCIFS has expressed disappointment 
that Mr M hasnt had the car fully assessed but given the circumstances, I dont think this is 
fair. The issue arose in the first 6 months and I wouldve expected RCIFS to have arranged 
an independent inspection.
RCIFS rely on the manufacturers handbook for the car, which says that its normal for a car 
to use oil and to require topping up in between oil changes. It also says to contact the dealer 
if more than 0.5 litres of oil is being consumed every 600 miles.
Ive looked at the internal invoice from the supplying dealer dated 3 September 2019. This 
shows that the car required 2.8 litres of oil because the oil was low. The recorded mileage on 
the invoice is 31,893, meaning that Mr M had covered around 2500 miles in the first 4 
months of ownership of the car. I wouldve expected the oil to have been checked and filled 
at the point of supply. So, it looks as if the car has consumed at least 2.8 litres of oil over a 
distance of 2500 miles. 
I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car to consumer this amount of oil. Based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car is consuming an excessive amount of oil. I dont 
think its reasonable to expect to have to fill the oil every 2 to 3 weeks as Mr M has had to do. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr M is covering excessive distances in the car. the mileage bears this out. On balance, I think its more likely than not that theres a fault with the car 
which is causing it to consume excessive oil.
Putting things right
The car has already been returned to the supplying dealer more than once and repairs were 
attempted in September 2020 when the update to the fuel injection system was carried out. 
This repair hasnt been successful because Mr M is still having to top up the oil regularly. 
Under the relevant legislation, Mr M doesnt have to accept further repairs and should be 
allowed to reject the car.
Its clear that Mr M has been caused significant inconvenience as a result of this. Hes had to 
buy oil regularly and theres been more than one occasion when the car has broken down 
with the oil light illuminated and a motor rescue organisation has attended. I think its fair to 
ask RCIFS to compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused as a 
result of having been supplied with a  car which isnt of satisfactory quality.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. RCI Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr M
Refund the deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay compensation of £375 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman