The complaint
Mr J complains that Rowan Dartington & Co Ltd caused him to lose out financially in the way 
it handled his online transaction to make a cash movement from his investment partner 
account, back to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) plan provider. 
Mr J is also complaining about the actions of his SIPP provider. Although the events are 
linked, as his other complaint is about a different business, it has been dealt with separately.
What happened
On 19 February 2019, Mr J submitted an online instruction to make a cash movement away 
from Rowan Dartington, the investment partner for his SIPP account. This was because he 
wanted to change the investment partner he was using for his AJ Bell SIPP.
Rowan Dartington received the request from AJ Bell on 20 February 2019, however, the 
amount of the cash movement requested was higher than the current value of his account. 
The instruction received by Rowan Dartington asked it to transfer £398,541.48. Mr J only 
had £397,810.49 in his account; a shortfall of £730.99. So Rowan Dartington contacted    AJ 
Bell for confirmation of the amount that should be moved. 
Rowan Dartington received a response from AJ Bell on 26 February 2019, to confirm that 
the value requested should be sent as soon as possible, as Mr J now had this amount in his 
account (due to market fluctuations). AJ Bell said that the transaction was not a full 
encashment. Where a client was changing investment manager, AJ Bell had a particular 
form it required the client to complete. At the time, it had not received this form from Mr J or 
his IFA, so had not been informed that Mr J wanted to close his Rowan Dartington account.
Mr J's independent financial adviser (IFA) contacted Rowan Dartington on 26 February 
2019, to confirm that this transaction was full encashment.
After speaking to Mr J's adviser  on 26 February 2019, and establishing this was full  
encashment, Rowan Dartington arranged for the closure of the account to be actioned 
that same day.
Mr J is unhappy that Rowan Dartington didnt action his request on 20 February 2019, and 
said that this has caused him financial loss. Mr J complained through his IFA to Rowan 
Dartington. It did not uphold his complaint and so he complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator took the view that Mr Js complaint should not be upheld against Rowan 
Dartington. She concluded, in summary, that Rowan Dartington had not been the cause of 
any unnecessary delays when processing his cash movement. She concluded that given the 
amount in  Mr Js fund was less than the amount hed asked to be transferred, she didnt 
DRN-1850573think it was inappropriate for Rowan Dartington to clarify this instruction. She noted that 
Rowan Dartington had asked for clarification the same day as it received the original 
instruction, and had used the correct contact details when seeking clarification.
She noted that Rowan Dartington didn't receive a response until 26 February 2019, when Mr 
Js adviser contacted it to say it was full closure. Rowan Dartington then instructed the sale 
of the unit trusts the next work day, as per the terms and conditions, as the instruction was 
not received before 9.30am. The encashment value was based on the next working days 
value (27 February 2019), which was £393,782.15. She didnt consider Rowan Dartington 
could reasonably be held responsible for the loss Mr J claims, when they did not receive 
clarification until 26 February 2019. 
Mr J didn't accept our adjudicator's view and so his complaint has been referred to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our adjudicator, and for much the same reasons. Ill briefly explain 
why.
On 20 February 2019, Rowan Dartington received an instruction which it was not able to act 
upon. There was not enough money in Mr Js account to carry out that instruction. The same 
day it asked AJ Bell, Mr Js SIPP provider, how to proceed. It e-mailed the SIPP provider, 
using the correct contact details, and as expected when clarification was required. 
It did not receive a response until 26 February 2019. Upon receiving the response, it acted 
upon those instructions and the next day carried out the cash movement instruction, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions that applied. The encashment value paid was 
valued as at 27 February 2019.
Taking all of this into account, I cannot see that Rowan Dartington did anything wrong in the 
way it handled Mr Js cash movement. It acted in a timely and appropriate way.  So, I cant 
reasonably require it to pay Mr J any redress. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint against Rowan Dartington & Co 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman