DRN-3831444
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy following a flood. 
For ease I will refer to Mrs W as the lead complainant in my decision. 
All reference to the insurer AXA in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs Ws home was damaged by flood. They immediately had to stay in 
a hotel. 
AXA instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to deal with their claim on AXAs behalf.
In September 2021 Mrs W complained to AXA about a number of issues. They said they felt 
they had been left to fend for themselves. They had no choice but to pay on a credit card for 
hotel accommodation which they arranged as they received no support from AXA or their 
agents. They had to move hotels frequently during this time due to availability. 
They said it was taking too long to reimburse them for payments for hotel stays and other 
expenses. They said AXA caused delays in arranging alternative accommodation (AA) and 
what it had offered was unsuitable. When given the option to look for AA themselves, Mrs W 
was able to find a property immediately which was more suitable in a nearby location for 
much less than AXAs agent had offered. 
Mrs W said they were unable to speak to AXAs agent to chase progress on their claim and 
when they did, they were unhelpful. Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the daily allowance of 
£10 per person. They thought it should be more. Mrs W said she lost her job and car, having 
previously worked from home, due to having to live in hotels and the delays caused by AXA. 
In November 2021 AXA upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in part. It had increased the daily 
allowance to £15 per person per day. It agreed to pay the deposit for the AA - it said it would 
deduct the deposit from future reimbursements. 
AXA said that with a claim of this type, it is likely to take longer to deal with. But it accepted it 
should have better explained the claims process to Mr and Mrs W to manage their 
expectations. And it said it had caused some delays during the claim and in reimbursing Mr 
and Mrs W for hotel stays and their daily allowance. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, AXA paid Mr and Mrs W £500 compensation. It 
also paid £25 for its delay dealing with their complaint. 
In April 2022 Mrs W asked us to look at their complaint. Shes raised further complaints with 
AXA about ongoing issues related to the claim. 
AXA agreed we could consider a further complaint Mr and Mrs W raised in June 2022 which 
it hadnt responded to. Another complaint raised was resolved and so it doesnt form part of 
my decision. 
In June 2022 Mr and Mrs W complained that due to the length of time the claim was taking, 
their garden wasnt being maintained, and they couldnt access it to maintain it. 
AXA agreed to meet the costs to maintain the garden in line with an estimate provided by 
Mrs W. 
Our Investigator recommended their complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA should 
have been more proactive in arranging AA sooner and in reimbursing Mr and Mrs W for the 
hotel costs they had to pay from 27 July 2021 to 13 September 2021. He thought the 
increase to the daily allowance was fair. 
The Investigator recommended AXA increase the compensation it paid by a further £500, 
making a total of £1,000 for issues up to and including November 2021. He found that Mr 
and Mrs W had to move hotels three times and there wasnt evidence to show AXAs agents 
had provided support.
He thought AXA should pay interest on the sums Mr and Mrs W had paid on their credit 
card.
AXA accepted the Investigators view. 
In response, Mrs W provided further details of the number of times they had to move hotels 
before moving into their AA. 
The Investigator issued a second view - in light of the additional moves Mr and Mrs W had to 
make between hotels - and recommended AXA pay a total compensation sum of £1,750. So 
£1,250 in addition to the £500 it had already paid. His position on paying interest on the 
amounts Mr and Mrs W paid on their credit card remained the same. 
In response, AXA provided a timeline of events. On 16 August 2021 AXAs agent offered 
options for AA to Mr and Mrs W. Some of the delay was due to their rejection of the offers. 
On 24/08/21 it suggested to Mrs W she could look for suitable alternative AA, which when 
found, AXA approved on 6 September 2021. 
AXA said it agreed to take over the costs of the hotel bills from 25 August 2021. 
It said there were some delays with reimbursement. But it went over and above the policy 
limit by increasing the daily allowance - and it reiterated that it paid the deposit for the AA 
upfront. 
AXA agrees it wasnt ideal to have to move between hotels - but it was at one of the busiest 
times of the year as it was during school summer holidays. So it was always going to be 
more difficult to find accommodation. 
AXA agreed to pay interest on the credit card sums - but it said it believed the compensation 
of £500 it had already paid was sufficient.
As AXA didnt agree with the Investigators second view, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing with any claim, particularly a fire or flood damage claim will inevitably cause 
disruption and inconvenience. Unfortunately this is unavoidable. Ive no doubt that having to 
live in these circumstances can cause considerable upheaval and distress. 
My role is to consider whether AXA as the insurer caused distress and inconvenience over 
and above what would be reasonably expected in these circumstances. Although it isnt a complete record, Mrs W has been able to provide - with a copy of her 
credit card statements - a list of the hotels and the number of times she and Mr W moved 
from 27 July 2021 to 13 September 2021. There were at least eight times when Mr and Mrs 
W had to change hotels due to availability. 
I understand it was a busy period - being the school summer holidays - and so availability 
was likely to be more difficult. But AXA was aware that Mr and Mrs Ws home was flood 
damaged and uninhabitable from 28 July 2021. It has provided limited information to show 
what proactive steps were taken to arrange AA for Mr and Mrs W before 16 August 2021, 
almost three weeks later. Mrs W explained that the accommodation offered included a 
bedsit, and a two and three bedroom apartment which she said didnt provide secure parking 
and she didnt feel was in a safe area. 
Having then been given the option to locate AA herself, Mrs W was able to find a suitable 
property within a week and in a nearer location for a lower cost. Mrs W said the first 
reimbursement they received for hotel costs and food wasnt paid until October 2021. This is 
unreasonable. 
So I dont think AXA has done enough to put things right. Mr and Mrs W put a considerable 
amount of money on their credit card and received little support from AXA and its agents 
during an extremely difficult and stressful time. They made their own arrangements for 
several weeks to ensure they had somewhere to stay at night, while dealing with daily life 
and the impact of having a flooded home. Email exchanges between Mrs W and the LA in 
September 2021 show that Mrs W had to chase for specific information, particularly around a 
date for when the AA would be available, and received general answers which were 
unhelpful. 
AXA, as the insurer experienced in handling claims, should have provided better support and 
- particularly in light of the time of year - taken more proactive steps to find suitable AA 
sooner. Had it done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have incurred the level of upheaval 
and worry and costs that they did. 
I think it would be very difficult to accurately calculate the equivalent interest reimbursement 
by transaction date from Mr and Mrs Ws credit card statements in this case. I think a fairer 
outcome in this case is for AXA to increase the compensation it pays to a total of £1,750 as 
reasonable compensation to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr 
and Mrs W £1,250 in addition to the £500 its already paid for the distress and inconvenience 
its poor service and delays caused. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple 
rate of 8% a year.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman