DRN-4215385
The complaint
Mr S complains through a representative that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans 
(Shelby) provided him with loans without carrying out sufficient affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr S was granted two loans and a summary of his borrowing can be found in the table 
below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentsmonthly 
repayment
1 £100.00 18/09/2021 29/12/2021 3 £52.80
2 £500.00 31/12/2021 21/07/2022 9 £108.77
Shelby considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans based on proportionate checks. Unhappy with this response, Mr Ss 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. He said, Shelby had 
carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved which demonstrated Mr S 
could potentially afford his repayments and there wasnt anything to suggest that the loans 
would be unsustainable for Mr S. 
Mr Ss representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision. As no agreement has been 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
applied in Mr Ss complaint due to there being only two loans and I agree. 
 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint. Having reviewed everything, Shelby 
carried out the same sort of checks before each loan was advanced and in my view these 
checks were proportionate and showed it that Mr S could afford his repayments. Ive 
explained why Ive come to this conclusion below. 
Before each loan was approved, Shelby asked for details of Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
Mr Ss income was declared as being £2,255 per month for both loans.  Shelby also says 
this amount was electronically verified with a credit reference agency to verify its accuracy. 
And having carried out this check, it decreased Mr Ss income figure for its affordability 
assessment for both loans to £1,738.
Mr S also declared monthly outgoings of £1,325 for loan one and £900 for loan two.  As part 
of the application process Shelby compared what Mr S had declared about his expenditure 
with data from Office of National Statistics (ONS) as well as information from Mr Ss credit 
search (which Ill go into in more detail below). Having done so, Shelby didnt consider that it 
needed to make any adjustments to the figures provided to it by Mr S for loan one but for 
loan two it increased his monthly outgoings to £1,229.  And so, based solely, on the income 
and expenditure information Shelby used for its affordability assessment the loans looked 
affordable. 
Before each loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Shelby carried out credit searches there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, my view is there isnt anything in any of the results 
that wouldve indicated that Mr S was having financial difficulties at the time of the 
applications, for example it knew there were no insolvency markers, defaults within the 12 
months preceding each loan or any County Court Judgements. 
There also wasnt anything within the results that indicated Mr S was reliant on these sorts of 
high-cost credit loans and I say this because no such loans had been opened within the 
preceding six months. 
Overall, and taking account of all of the information, there wasnt enough to have led Shelby 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information it received. So, while Mr Ss representative has provided copy bank statements it wouldve 
been, in my view, disproportionate for Shelby to have considered them at this point in the 
lending relationship. 
Given the evidence provided, I think the checks Shelby carried out before each loan were 
proportionate which showed it that Mr S would be potentially able to afford the repayments, 
he was committed to making. There also wasnt anything else in the information Shelby 
gathered to suggest that Mr S was having financial difficulties or that these loans would be 
unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman