DRN-2733222
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have a travel insurance policy as part of a packaged bank account. 
On 20 January 2020, Mr and Mrs T booked their accommodation to Spain through a 
travel agent (for ease, Ill refer to them as A). Their intended travel date was to be
28 April 2020. 
On 18 February, they paid the full balance for their accommodation.
On 14 March, the Spanish government announced a nationwide lockdown.
On 17 March, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) also advised against 
all but essential travel. 
At first, A gave Mr and Mrs T the option to rearrange their booking, but Mr and Mrs T 
didnt want to take this option due to all the uncertainty at the time. However, on 
26 March, A confirmed it couldnt rearrange the trip or refund Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T submitted a claim to UKI for the unused accommodation on their 
policy. Separately, they made a claim to the airline for the flights theyd booked.
UKI declined the claim. It said Mr and Mrs T were given the option to rearrange the 
trip which they didnt take. It confirmed that the cost was recoverable elsewhere and 
therefore, Mr and Mrs T should make a claim on their credit card. UKI said in the 
event this was unsuccessful, Mr and Mrs T could contact its legal assistance team 
who may be able to assist them to get a refund.
UKI accepted that the service it provided could have been better and paid £50 
compensation in recognition of this.
Unhappy with UKI, Mr and Mrs T brought the complaint to our service. They wanted 
the claim settled.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was 
reasonable for UKI to decline the claim on the basis of Mr and Mrs T making a claim 
with their credit card provider. She therefore recommended UKI pay the claim and 
add 8% simple interest. She also thought £50 was fair compensation for the poor 
service they received from UKI. 
UKI disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me. 
UKI say:
oWhile Mr and Mrs T arent contractually obliged to claim through their credit 
card provider, they do need to show they arent covered elsewhere. The 
policy has a specific exclusion which states there is no cover for any 
expenses that can be claimed elsewhere.
oIts right to decline the claim until the consumer can confirm this. It has 
referred to exclusions from the policy document where it believes this applies.
oRecent guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) states 
insurers are entitled to ask consumers to attempt to make a recovery from 
their credit card provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking 
into account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant regulators 
rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down 
claims unreasonably. 
Firstly, I note UKI has referred to another case this service has considered to support its 
position on this case. While I appreciate this, I confirm that we consider each case on its 
individual circumstances and I therefore cant specifically comment on what exactly 
happened on that case. 
The key issue I have to decide on this case is whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined 
Mr and Mrs Ts claim. I dont think it did. Ill explain below why. But I do think UKI paid 
reasonable compensation for the service it provided to Mr and Mrs T.
Ive thought carefully about, amongst other things, the terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy, and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether UKI handled it 
fairly.
The cancellation section of the policy says Mr and Mrs T are covered for certain expenses in 
the event of: 
FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your 
(bank account) or booked your trip whichever is later.
Mr and Mrs T booked their accommodation in January 2020. The FCO advised, on 17 March 
2020, against all but essential travel. Mr and Mrs Ts holiday was due to start on 28 April 
2020. 
So based on the above, as the advice came into force after Mr and Mrs T booked their trip, 
their cancelled accommodation would be covered under this section of the policy. My 
understanding is that this issue isnt in dispute.  
The issue in dispute is that UKI has declined the claim by referring to a specific exclusion from the cancellation section of the policy document. Under the Cancelling Your Trip 
section, it says, UKI wont pay for:
.
12.
Recoverable costs
And, on page 18, of the policy document, theres a list of specific exclusions. This says any 
costs that can be recovered elsewhere are specifically excluded. So UKI has said Mr and 
Mrs T are obliged to make a claim through their credit card provider before it considers the 
claim
I acknowledge UKIs comments. But my remit allows me to consider whether this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So, while Ive considered the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy, Ive also carefully considered what this means in their 
individual circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T confirmed their claim is for the cost of the accommodation they had to cancel 
and havent received a refund for. They made a separate claim directly to the airline for the 
flights they booked. They provided an invoice showing the accommodation was booked 
separately. Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest The Package Travel and Linked 
Travel Arrangements Regulations (PTR) 2018 apply in this case as Mr and Mrs T booked 
their accommodation separate to their flights and with separate providers. They didnt 
therefore book a packaged holiday. And, that Mr and Mrs T submitted a claim to UKI, doesnt 
therefore seem unreasonable. 
Ive considered also that although A initially said the trip could be rearranged, it then 
confirmed to them, it couldnt rearrange or provide a refund to Mr and Mrs T. From the 
information available, it seems A has also filed for liquidation. Based on this, Mr and Mrs T 
are unable to recover their costs from A, even if they wanted to. Theres also no evidence 
that A was a member of any other trade association or body where Mr and Mrs T could seek 
to recover their costs from. Im satisfied therefore that Mr and Mrs T have taken reasonable 
steps to show their costs arent recoverable.
I refer to the October 2020 FCA guidance which UKI has commented on. The guidance was 
issued to insurers dealing with policyholders who havent been able to obtain a refund from 
their travel provider. UKI say Mr and Mrs T should contact their credit card provider to seek a 
refund before making a claim though the UKI travel policy. 
Ive considered UKIs comments alongside the FCA guidance in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The guidance is called Finalised guidance: Cancellations and refunds: helping 
consumers with rights and routes to refunds. It was effective until April 2021. The FCA has 
since issued a consultation on extending this guidance, to take effect from April 2021 and to 
remain in place during the exceptional circumstances arising out of Covid-19, until varied or 
revoked. The FCA guidance acknowledges that insurance claims are governed by the policy 
terms and then goes on to provide an indication of how the FCA expects the terms of travel 
insurance policies to be interpreted by insurers. 
Theres guidance relating to the interpretation of policy terms which say that any potential 
claim on an insurance policy will depend on the terms of the policy. However, where an 
insurance provider requires policyholders to demonstrate or take reasonable steps to 
mitigate a financial loss under the terms of the policy, consumers should not have to go to 
unreasonable lengths to do this. So, in other words, the FCA has given a clear indication that insurers shouldnt require 
policyholders to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their losses. As Ive explained above, 
I think the FCAs guidance makes it clear that it would generally consider this approach 
(making a claim through their credit card provider) to be unreasonable. I say this in the 
context of whats happened in Mr and Mrs Ts case. I dont think, in considering, it would be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs T to take such a step to obtain a refund which would 
otherwise be covered by the policy terms. 
By its own admission, UKI has said Mr and Mrs T are under no contractual obligation to 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and if they are unsuccessful, they 
have a valid claim and the cancellation cost would be covered. 
Additionally, while Mr and Mrs T paid for the accommodation using their credit card, the 
relevant policy exclusion doesnt specify that they have to attempt to recover the costs 
through a section 75 claim. It simply says any costs that can be recovered elsewhere wont 
be covered under the policy. So, I agree theres no contractual obligation on Mr and Mrs T to 
recover their loss through a section 75 claim. As such, I dont think its reasonable for UKI to 
reject the claim on that basis. 
Im not persuaded that UKI declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim fairly. Im also not persuaded they 
should approach their credit card provider to recover their costs. The FCA guidance supports 
its consumer protection objective and was designed to reduce consumer confusion and 
frustration by setting out more information to insurers and to make the consumer journey 
easier. It was also not designed to set out the order in which consumers should make claims 
but to ensure policyholders should not go to unreasonable lengths to demonstrate or 
mitigate financial loss. Mr and Mrs T have shown that they pursued the claim and that its 
highly unlikely a refund would be forthcoming as A has filed for liquidation. This gives rise to 
sufficient uncertainty on their part and I think its unreasonable to expect them to do more. 
And generally, it would be unreasonable to expect consumers to have to recover their losses 
through the court.
Overall, taking everything into account on this complaint and having carefully considered the 
policy terms and conditions, the FCA guidance and Mr and Mrs Ts individual circumstances, 
Im not satisfied that UKI has declined the claim fairly. The fair and reasonable outcome is 
for UKI to pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, minus the policy 
excess, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
I note, UKI paid Mr and Mrs T £50 compensation for the poor service they received. Having 
looked at what happened, I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, UKI should settle the claim in line with the policy terms, minus 
the policy excess. It should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date the claim was 
submitted to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 06 November 2021.
 Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman