DRN-3428512
The complaint
Miss H complains that Studio Retail Limited is charging her for a TV that has been collected 
from her.
What happened
Miss H used her credit account with Studio Retail to order a TV in February 2021. She tried 
to cancel the order but the TV was delivered to her. She says that she arranged with Studio 
Retail for the TV to be collected but it wasnt collected so the collection was rearranged. She 
says that the TV was collected from her but shes still being charged for it. 
She complained to Studio Retail but it said the collection agent attempted to contact Miss H 
but was unsuccessful so no collection was made and another collection was booked in June 
2021 but, when the collection agent attended to collect the TV, Miss H wasnt at home and 
no collection took place. It said that it had been unable to identify any failings with the 
provision of its services due to having no evidence that the TV was returned. Miss H wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said that Studio 
Retails system notes show that the TV was collected in April 2021. He recommended that it 
should give a full refund of the TV and a refund of interest and charges on the TV since the 
date of purchase.
Studio Retail has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
theres no supporting evidence to show that the TV was collected and the evidence that it 
has supplied contradicts that it was collected. It says that its system notes do appear to 
corroborate Miss Hs testimony but those notes are incorrect as the collection agent requires 
a signature when an item is collected but it couldnt contact Miss H to perform the collection. 
It also says that its terms and conditions say that a receipt should be obtained to prevent 
situations such as this and that Miss H should have received several e-mails from the 
collection agent regarding the collection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld for these 
reasons:
Miss H had ordered a TV from Studio Retail but she says that she cancelled the 
order the same day and that Studio Retail said that it wouldnt be sent to her  but 
the TV was then delivered to her;
she contacted Studio Retail and it arranged for the TV to be collected from her but 
the collection didnt take place;
she says that she contacted Studio Retail again and the TV was collected from her 
which I understand to have been in about April 2021;
the charge for the TV wasnt removed from Miss Hs account so she contacted Studio 
Retail again and it agreed to refund the charges and interest for the TV;
Miss H completed a declaration about the returned TV but Studio Retail then 
arranged another collection of the TV in June 2021  the collection agent provided a 
photo showing that it had attended to collect the TV but there had been no answer so 
the TV wasnt collected  but that was two months after Miss H says that the TV had 
been collected from her;
Studio Retail then said that the TV hadnt been collected from Miss H so the charge 
for it remained on her account;
Miss H has been unable to provide any documentary evidence to show that the TV 
was collected from her  but she has provided an e-mail from Studio Retail from 
March 2021 in which it says that it has  arranged a collection for your item and this 
will be collected within 14 working days   which is consistent with what she says 
about the TV being collected from her in about April 2020;
Studio Retail has provided evidence from the failed collections in February and June 
2021 and says that the evidence that it has supplied contradicts that the TV was 
collected from Miss H  but it hasnt provided any evidence of the collection that it 
arranged in March 2021;
in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
I consider it to be clear that Miss H didnt want the TV, she cancelled the order before 
the TV was delivered, she then twice contacted Studio Retail to arrange for it to be 
collected from her and she completed a declaration that the TV had been returned; 
and
I consider it to be more likely than not that the TV was collected from Miss H so I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Studio Retail 
to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Studio Retail to rework Miss Hs credit account 
as if the TV hadnt been ordered in February 2021 and to take the other actions described 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and I order Studio Retail Limited to:
1. Rework Miss Hs credit account as if the order for the TV hadnt been made and, if 
that puts the account into credit, to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the 
credit balance for the periods that the account was in credit - it should also refund the 
credit balance to Miss H.
2. If Miss H has made any payments to it for the TV, but doesnt have a credit balance, 
to pay interest on the amount that shes repaid at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to deduct tax from any of those interest 
payments. Studio Retail must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if 
she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman