DRN-3786818
The complaint
G has complained that Society of Lloyds unfairly turned down a claim on its contingency 
non-appearance insurance policy after the performance of an event it was involved in 
was cancelled due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr C has brought the complaint on Gs behalf.
G has also been helped in bringing this complaint by a representative. For ease of reading,
Ill refer to the representatives actions and comments as being those of G.
What happened
G held a contingency non-appearance insurance policy with Society of Lloyds. It claimed
on its policy after one of its events was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments
response to the pandemic.
Society of Lloyds turned down Gs claim as it said G didnt have cover for the losses it
was claiming for.
Unhappy with Society of Lloyds response, G brought its complaint to us. It thought its
claim should be covered under the Communicable Disease extension of the policy.
Broadly, and in summary, it said:
The extension covers Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or atypical
pneumonia.
A reasonable reader of a policy (including the extension) would consider Covid-19 to
fall within the umbrella of either SARS or atypical pneumonia.
Other insurers have paid out claims on identical terms.
Our Investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt
think the policy provided cover. G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
In September 2022, I issued a provisional decision to both parties in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to depart from the investigators findings and uphold Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Policy Terms
The starting point is the policy terms. They cover Gs net losses, as defined by the policy, 
should any insured performance or events be necessarily cancelled as the sole and direct 
result of a cause not otherwise excluded, which occurs during the period of insurance and 
is beyond the control of G and the participant defined within the policy. The insurance also 
covers proven additional costs or charges reasonably and necessarily paid by G to avoid 
or diminish a loss payable under the policy, provided those charges dont exceed the value 
of the loss avoided or diminished.
Extension 7.15 of the policy covers Communicable Diseases, as defined. It says:
Notwithstanding anything stated to the contrary, this insurance is extended to indemnify 
the Insured in the event that the Event is cancelled in its entirety as a sole and direct result 
of an Outbreak of the following diseases only
(1.1.1) Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS); or
(1.1.2) atypical pneumonia; or 
(1.1.3) bird flu (Avian Flu); or 
(1.1.4) swine flu; and/or
(1.1.5) any other influenza variant deemed either an epidemic or pandemic by the 
World Health Organisation.
Which results in:
a. The imposition of quarantine or restriction in movement of people or animals by 
any national or international body or agency; and or,
b. Any travel advisory or warning being issued by a national or international body 
or agency,
Subject otherwise to the terms Condition and Exclusions of the policy.
The policy excludes:
any loss directly or indirectly arising out of, contributed to by, or resulting from:

7.15. any Communicable Disease or fear or threat thereof, unless:
7.15.1 such Communicable Disease infects an Insured Person and such infection of an 
Insured Person is the sole and direct cause of the necessary Cancellation, 
Abandonment, Postponement, Interruption, Curtailment or Relocation of any Insured 
Event; or
7.5.2 the Venue is closed by or under the order of any government or public or 
local authority as a sole and direct result of a Communicable Disease which 
originates and manifests itself within the confines of the Venue.
The policy states Communicable Disease means any disease capable of being 
transmitted from an infected person or species to a susceptible host, either directly or 
indirectly.
The issue for me to decide is whether the facts of this complaint trigger the application of 
the
Communicable Disease on its true construction.Interpretation of Insurance
The approach to contractual interpretation is set out in the Supreme Courts judgment in 
response to the FCA Business Interruption Test Case. Paragraph 47 of that judgement 
says an insurance policy, like any other contract, must be interpreted objectively by 
asking what a reasonable person, with all the background knowledge which would 
reasonably have been available to the parties when they entered into the contract, would 
have understood the language of the contract to mean. Evidence about what the parties 
subjectively intended or understood the contract to mean is not relevant to the courts 
task.
At paragraph 77 The Supreme Court also commented that the overriding question is 
how the words of the contract would be understood by a reasonable person. In the case of 
an insurance policy of the present kind, sold principally to SMEs, the person to whom the 
document should be taken to be addressed is not a pedantic lawyer who will subject the 
entire policy wording to a minute textual analysis (cf Jumbo King Ltd v Faithful Properties 
Ltd (1999) 2 HKCFAR 279, para 59). It is an ordinary policyholder who, on entering into 
the contract, is taken to have read through the policy conscientiously in order to 
understand what cover they were getting.
It was noted in Corbin & King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK PLC [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) 
(quoting from an arbitration award issued by Lord Mance in The Policyholders Specified 
in Schedule 1 to the Arbitration Agreement v China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd) that 
this does not mention the insurer or any broker. Cockerill J therefore said that  on this 
basis, we approach the Policy on its words, as if we are a small businessman, albeit with 
a broker to assist us. (paragraph 180).
There has been considerable discussion around the interpretation of the contract 
between the parties on whether the Communicable Disease extension can be interpreted 
to cover Covid-19. The key point however is that the contract must not be interpreted with 
hindsight. Rather the question is how the words would have been understood by the 
reasonable small business owner, assisted by a broker, with all the background 
knowledge which would have been reasonably available at the time the parties entered 
into the contract.
The insurance was entered into in November 2019, so the question for me is what, in 
November 2019, a reasonable person would have understood SARS and atypical 
pneumonia to mean. At that point, Covid-19 had not been identified. As a result, my view 
is that the two expert reports the parties have provided are of limited value because 
information such as the World Health Organisations naming conventions is not 
knowledge which would have been reasonably available to the parties. This is in line with 
the Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Company Limited [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm) 
decision, where Cockerill J decided that the legislative history of the life of notifiable 
diseases was not information which would have been reasonably available to the parties.
Ive considered what this approach, in my view, means for both SARS and 
atypical pneumonia below.
SARS
SARS is a viral respiratory illness caused by the SARS-associated coronavirus, SARS-
CoV. Both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses. I think the reference to 
SARS in the policy is likely to be interpreted as referring to the SARS disease which broke 
out in China and Hong Kong (and other locations) in 2002-2003. This is consistent with 
general knowledge of SARS and the UKs notifiable diseases list, which lists SARS 
separately.And I think that the interpretation is unlikely to cover SARS variants for three reasons: 
first, the SARS outbreak was major news at the time so I think this is what a reasonable 
small business owner would take it to mean. Secondly, its named in capital letters, unlike 
atypical pneumonia, bird flu, swine flu and any other influenza variant, which implies it 
is a specific disease. Finally, paragraph 1.1.5 specifically refers to any other influenza 
variant. This implies that if variants are not mentioned, they are not covered.
Variants of bird flu and swine flu are however likely to be covered, but that is because, 
given the periodic outbreaks, I think its likely the reasonable person would regard it as a 
type of flu which originates in birds and pigs and jumps to humans, rather than regarding it 
as a specific type (unlike SARS).
Atypical pneumonia
The reference to atypical pneumonia is not defined. In line with paragraph 56 of Rockliffe 
Hall, my view is that what is meant here is that the cause of the cancellation needs to be 
the disease or condition of atypical pneumonia as a thing with which an individual might 
be diagnosed.
As at November 2019, I think the natural meaning of atypical pneumonia is likely to be 
an unusual form of pneumonia. Based on the NHS website, pneumonia is inflammation 
of the lungs and can be caused by either a virus or bacteria. The Oxford English 
Dictionary describes it as a lung infection in which the air saves fill with pus.
The coverage here is for something which is sufficiently serious and communicable 
(because if it wasnt infectious it would fall outside the scope of the exclusion in 7.15 and 
so be covered as a Peril) that it could result in a quarantine, restrictions on movement or a 
travel advisory. It also has to be atypical, which isnt defined but appears to refer to it 
being uncommon in ordinary terms.
Society of Lloyds position is that atypical pneumonia is primarily the result of bacterial 
infection. I havent found any reasonably available information to support this. The British 
Medical Journal describes atypical bacterial pneumonia as caused by atypical organisms 
not detectable on Gram stain and which cannot be cultured using standard methods, such 
as Chlamydophia species.1 But I dont think this would qualify as information reasonably 
available to the policyholder or broker for the purposes of contractual interpretation.
I appreciate that Society of Lloyds may feel that Covid-19 is a disease in its own right and 
therefore cannot be interpreted as atypical pneumonia. However, I think the key here is 
whether a reasonable person in November 2019 would have thought that atypical 
pneumonia covered a new infectious disease which caused pneumonia, I think the answer 
would, on balance, be yes. This is consistent with Rockliffe Hall because it is still treating 
pneumonia as a condition, rather than a general description.
Overall, I consider that Gs claim does fall within cover a reasonable interpretation of 
atypical pneumonia in November 2019 because it is a general condition, rather than a 
disease in its own right.
1 1 https://bestpractice.bmj.com/topics/en- 
gb/18#:~:text=Atypical%20bacterial%20pneumonia%20is%20caused,Chlamydophila%20pneumoni
ae%2C%20and%20Legionella%20pneumophila.Good industry practice and other issues
As I understand it, other insurers have paid out claims on identical policy terms. This 
would, in itself, indicate good industry practice which Id urge Society of Lloyds to consider 
in this case and before I issue my final decision.
Both parties responded to my provisional findings. G has accepted what Ive said. Society of 
Lloyds have also responded. They disagree with the outcome Ive reached. Ive summarised 
their points theyve made below:
Covid-19 is a separate virus in accordance with guidance from the World Health 
Organisation. 
 Typical and atypical pneumonia differ; With atypical pneumonia unlikely to hospitalise, 
and a person is unlikely to be significantly ill  this not necessarily the case with Covid-
19. Theyve provided links to various online resources about these illnesses.
While it is accepted that pneumonia can be a complication of Covid-19, the catalyst of 
insurance losses were the governmental closures brought about by the Covid-19 
outbreak, and the preventative measures to prevent its spread, not latter complications. 
Covid-19 is a Coronavirus, with pneumonia being the result of a bacterial infection.
Having considered everything available online, they accept that whilst Covid-19 can lead 
to pneumonia, it is not the same as pneumonia. They are separate diseases. Not all 
those who get Covid-19 will get pneumonia. 
The policy wording explains that   the Event is cancelled in its entirety as a sole and 
direct result of an Outbreak of the following diseases. As such, they dont believe it 
responds as the catalyst of this insurance loss was the governmental closures brought 
about by the Covid-19 outbreak, and the preventative measures to prevent its spread, 
not latter complications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the same 
reasons set out within my provisional decision and with the same remedy. This is 
because Lloyds havent provided me with anything that persuades me that a 
reasonable person - in November 2019 - wouldnt have thought that atypical 
pneumonia covered a new infection disease which caused pneumonia. 
So, whilst I agree that Covid-19 is a disease in its own right, I also think that a 
reasonable person in November 2019 wouldve taken the view that it fell within the 
general condition of atypical pneumonia. 
When reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account the references that Lloyds have 
made to several online resources, but having reviewed them, Im not persuaded they 
change the position. In my view, a reading of those resources dont make clear that 
atypical i.e. unusual pneumonia (defined on the NHS website as inflammation of the 
lungs, which can be caused by either a virus or bacteria - not solely bacteria as Lloyds 
say) isnt something that would have been caused by Covid-19. 
And whilst I appreciate that cover extends to the cancellation being the direct result of an 
outbreak of listed diseases, I dont think this excludes Gs claim. Ive already explained 
why I think cover extends in this case to atypical pneumonia. And that cover applies 
where theres an imposition of quarantine or restriction in movement of people or animals 
by any national or international body or agency resulting from the disease. The insurance loss was caused by governmental closures and the preventative measures to stop the 
spread of Covid-19, but for the reasons Ive already set out, I think this would extend to a 
reasonable person in November 2019 thinking that cover was in place for the condition 
based on all the background knowledge which would have been reasonably available at 
the time.
Putting things right
In light of my findings above, Lloyds should reconsider Gs claim under the remaining policy 
terms.
If Society of Lloyds makes a payment to G in respect of that claim, they should add 
interest of 8% per year simple to run two months from the date of the claim, until it is paid.
Our Award Limits
G should note that for complaints referred after 1 April 2020 for acts or omissions by a 
business on or after 1 April 2019, our maximum financial award limit is £355,000. Where I 
uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business up to 
this amount plus interest. If I think that fair compensation is more than £355,000, I may 
recommend that Society of Lloyds pays the balance.
I note Gs policy limit is up to £400,000. I dont know whether its claim, once assessed, is 
likely to amount to more than £355,000. If so, I can only direct that Society of Lloyds pays 
up to this limit with a recommendation that they pay any balance. The recommendation is 
not part of my determination or award. Society of Lloyds doesnt have to do what I 
recommend. Its unlikely that G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. G may want to get independent legal advice before deciding to accept my findings 
or indeed any final decisions I might make in respect of them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Gs complaint against Society of Lloyds and direct 
them to put things right in accordance with what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman