DRN-3555780
The complaint
Mr T complains that a trike motorcycle that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes being helped with his 
complaint by a friend.
What happened
A new trike motorcycle was supplied to Mr T under a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse that he electronically signed in July 2018. The price of the trike was £24,245, he paid 
a deposit of £10,675.98 and he agreed to make 36 monthly payments of £109.49 and there 
was a final repayment of £13,579.02.
He says that there were some issues with the trikes gears and clutch and that he then 
received a recall notice from the manufacturer about a clutch issue in February 2019. He 
says that the recall notice said that the trike wouldnt be safe to drive so he stopped using it. 
He took the trike to two manufacturers dealers but the recall repair wasnt carried out so he 
complained to the manufacturer and then he complained to Black Horse in April 2021. It said 
that hed not made any allegation of any fault with the trike, only that a recall had been 
issued and there had been a delay in carrying out the work required. It said that it was Mr Ts 
responsibility to contact the manufacturer or dealer. Mr T wasnt satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that it was 
clear that the trike wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and that there had been a 
significant delay in reaching an outcome. He didnt think that Black Horses offer to arrange 
for the trike to be repaired was the correct remedy in the circumstances. He recommended 
that Black Horse should allow Mr T to reject the trike and should: collect it from him; refund 
his deposit, rental payments since February 2019 and the cost of the diagnostics reports, all 
with interest; pay £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused; and remove any adverse 
information from Mr Ts credit file in relation to the agreement.
Black Horse has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that it 
should be allowed an opportunity to repair the trike.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Black Horse, as the supplier of the trike, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T - whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including its age and mileage 
and the price that was paid for it;
the trike that was supplied to Mr T was new, with a price of £24,245, and I consider 
that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the trike must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how 
long that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the trike was supplied to Mr T in July or August 2018 and he says that there were 
some issues with its gears and clutch and that he then received a recall notice from 
the manufacturer about a clutch issue in February 2019;
he says that he took the trike to two manufacturers dealers but the recall repair 
wasnt carried out  hes not provided any documentary evidence to show that the 
trike was taken to two manufacturers dealers for the recall repair but hes provided a 
handwritten note of all of the payments that hes made for the bike including two 
substantial payments that he made for work on the trike after he was sent the recall 
notice;
Mr T paid £60 for an independent specialist to inspect the trike in September 2021 
and it said that it suspected that there was a secondary activation cylinder issue;
he paid £100 for the specialist to inspect the trike again in October 2021 and it said 
that  a fault was found with the secondary clutch activation cylinder and fluid was 
by-passing the piston reducing the efficiency of the cylinder;
it also said: Suspect the gear change issue  has been apparent since [Mr T] took 
ownership ;
the trikes mileage was recorded on the October 2021 inspection report as 1,340 
miles and Mr T says that the recall notice said that the trike wouldnt be safe to drive 
so he stopped using it in February 2019;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was a fault with the trike when it was 
supplied to Mr T which caused it not to have been of satisfactory quality at that time;
Black Horse says that it should be allowed an opportunity to repair the trike but it 
didnt offer to repair the trike when Mr T complained to it, Mr T says that he hasnt 
used the trike since he received the recall notice and I dont consider that it would 
now be fair or reasonable for the trike to be repaired; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Black Horse 
Limited to allow Mr T to reject the trike.
Putting things right
I find that Black Horse should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the trike to 
be collected from Mr T both at no cost to him. The hire purchase agreement shows that 
Mr T paid a deposit of £10,675.98 for the trike. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Black Horse to refund to him the deposit that he paid for the trike, with interest. I find that it 
should also remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file.
Mr T says that he stopped using the trike after he received the recall notice and the mileage 
recorded on the October 2021 inspection report shows that he only had limited use of the 
trike. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Black Horse to refund to Mr T the monthly 
payments that hes made under the agreement for the period since he received the recall 
notice, with interest. I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the payments that 
he made before then as payment for the use that hes had from the trike. Mr T paid £160 for the inspection reports in September and October 2021. I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Black Horse to reimburse those amounts to him, with interest.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr T. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Black Horse to pay him £200 to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order Black Horse Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the trike to be collected from 
Mr T  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr T the deposit that he paid for the trike.
3. Refund to Mr T the monthly payments that hes made under the hire purchase 
agreement for the period since he received the recall notice in February 2019.
4. Pay a total of £160 to reimburse Mr T for the cost of the two inspection reports.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file.
7. Pay £200 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Black Horse to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Black Horse must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman