DRN-3497503
The complaint
Mr D complains BUPA Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim for hospital benefit when 
he underwent cancer treatment via the NHS.
What happened
Mr D holds a private medical insurance policy underwritten by BUPA. He underwent cancer 
treatment in an NHS hospital, and made a claim against his policy under the NHS cancer 
cash benefit cover. 
BUPA declined the claim. Mr D said the reasons for this were not made clear to him and he 
was not told what he would need to provide, in order for his claim to be paid. Subsequently 
he arranged for a consultant to write to BUPA to provide details of the treatment. And he 
said BUPA failed to inform him of the outcome after receiving the consultants letter. Mr D 
also said he thinks the terms of the policy are unclear and BUPA hasnt fulfilled its cancer 
promise. 
BUPA said it declined the claim due to an exclusion in the policy cover, related to 
experimental treatment. The exclusion it relied on is as follows. 
Exclusion 16 Experimental drugs and treatment
We do not pay for treatment or procedures which, in our reasonable opinion, are 
experimental or unproved based on established medical practice in the United Kingdom, 
such as drugs outside the terms of their licence or procedures which have not been 
satisfactorily reviewed by NICE (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence).
Exception: We pay for experimental drug treatment for cancer subject to the following 
criteria []
when your consultant provides us with one of the following:
-evidence that the drug treatment has been found to have likely benefit on your 
condition through a predictive genetic test where appropriate/available, or
-evidence there is a European Medicines Agency (EMA) licence for the drug 
used to treat your condition and the drug is used within its licensed protocol, 
or
-evidence that at least one NHS/National Comprehensive Cancer Network 
(NCCN)/European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) protocol exists, 
other than as part of research/clinical trials protocol, for your exact condition 
(ie the specific indication including tumour type, staging and phase of 
treatment if relevant), or
-a published positive opinion on the Orphan Drug EMA Register for your 
exact condition (ie the specific indication including tumour type, staging and 
phase of treatment if relevant), or
-Phase III clinical trial results showing clinical efficacy and safety for the 
drug treatment published in a peer-reviewed journal.
Before starting this type of treatment you must have our confirmation that the above 
criteria have been met and we need full clinical details from your consultant before we 
can determine this.
Mr D complained to BUPA. BUPA said the treatment Mr D had undergone was not covered. 
It said the treatment was still in a trial stage, so it was considered experimental and was 
therefore excluded from cover. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and ultimately said they thought BUPA hadnt declined 
the claim unfairly, as they werent persuaded the evidence showed the treatment met the 
terms and conditions for cover. However they thought BUPA had caused unnecessary 
delays and said it should pay £100 in compensation for the poor service. 
BUPA accepted the investigators view. However, Mr D disagreed. In summary he said the 
relevant trial for his treatment had been in the third phase since 2018. And he thought BUPA 
was trying to avoid paying the claim. He said he had been treated poorly and wanted BUPA 
to be challenged on the clarity of the terms and conditions. 
As Mr D disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say BUPA has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Having considered the evidence in this case, I dont think BUPA declined Mr Ds claim 
unfairly, and Ill explain why.
Ive carefully reviewed the terms of the policy, in particular exclusion 16. The exclusion 
states experimental treatment will be covered when a consultant provides one item from a 
list of several options. And I think this clearly sets out the evidence BUPA will require for a 
valid claim in the circumstances of experimental treatment. 
BUPA is entitled to decide what it wants to cover under the policy when setting the terms. As 
Ive said, I think the terms of the exclusion are clear. And Ive found no reason to say BUPA 
has applied this exclusion unfairly in Mr Ds case. 
Whilst I appreciate the trial Mr Ds specific treatment was a part of was in phase three for 
some time, the terms also require that the results had been published in a peer-reviewed 
journal. The evidence provided related to a published report on a different combination of 
drugs from those being used for Mr Ds treatment. And the terms specifically state clinical 
efficacy and safety for the drug treatment, so I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to say this 
report was insufficient to support the claim, due to the drugs used being different. Although letters were provided from a consultant directly involved with the trial, commenting 
on its success, this evidence has not persuaded me that the trial and specific drugs used for 
Mr Ds treatment, had phase three clinical trial results published in a peer-reviewed journal, 
at the time BUPA declined the claim. And thats what is required by the terms of Mr Ds 
cover. So it follows that I dont think BUPA declined the claim unfairly. 
Mr D also complained about delays by BUPA and poor service. Having reviewed the 
correspondence and timelines, Ive noted BUPA failed to respond to some of Mr Ds 
communications. And I think it should also have communicated with Mr D directly when 
writing back to the consultant in response to his letter in support of the claim. The 
investigator recommended BUPA should pay Mr D £100 in compensation. And I think that 
amount accurately reflects the impact to Mr D of having to chase BUPA for responses in 
these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. And I 
direct BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Mr D £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
BUPA Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman