DRN-4314124
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Santander will not refund the money he lost as the result of a purchase
scam.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will not repeat them here in full. In
summary, Mr J paid three cheques totalling £8,285 for solar panels and windows in October
2022. But when he tried to cancel his order during the contractual cooling off period the
company failed to respond to his request and the sales representative hed met
disappeared.
Mr J raised a fraud claim with Santander on 1 December 2022. It rejected it saying he had
authorised the payments. It did try to recover any funds from the beneficiarys account but no 
money remained by then.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Js complaint. She found any intervention from the bank
would not have prevented the fraud as at the time the cheques were presented there was no
indication that this was a scam. And the bank had done what we would expect to try to
recover the money once Mr J reported the fraud.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr J asked for an ombudsmans review. I reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator but as I made an additional finding I issued a provisional 
decision to allow both parties to submit any new information. An extract follows and forms 
part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
The first question I need to consider in any case involving a purchase scam is to
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been
scammed, rather than it being a civil dispute about the goods or services ordered. This is
important because banks (and other payment service providers) only have a duty to protect
customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered
where payments are made to purchase goods or services that are say a bad bargain,
defective in some way or not received.
Ive carefully considered the available information about the company Mr J contracted with.
And I think it is more likely than not that Mr J was scammed and that the contractors he hired
had a planned intention to scam him. But that doesnt mean that Mr Js automatically entitled
to a refund.
A cheque is a written order from a customer (the drawer), instructing their bank to pay a
specified sum of money to a named beneficiary (the payee). Cheques arent legal tender but
are legal documents and their use is governed by the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 and the
Cheques Acts of 1957 and 1992. They arent considered a payment service under the
previous or present Payment Services Regulations (PSR), so the provisions of those
regulations dont apply to this type of payment instrument. And nor do the principles of the
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code.
A banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the terms and
conditions of the account (and of course the customers ancillary contract with the third-party
payee, e.g., a retailer, creditor, supplier, etc.). This position has long been recognised in
common law. So, if a bank fails to comply with a validly executed payment order, it could be
held liable for damages  as could the drawer  where the payment method used is a
cheque.
What that means is the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and
withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a
cheque drawn in accordance with the terms of the account, a bank must honour the payment
unless there are legal, regulatory or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional
circumstances, allow refusal of a payment instruction.
Here, it is accepted that the payment mandates were validly executed (authorised) as Mr J
signed and issued the cheques to the named payee. At the time, he intended to pay the
company and there was no mistake made in the execution of the payments. So, under the
terms and conditions of the account, Mr J is presumed liable for the losses in the first
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider good industry practice at the time, I consider that Santander
ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having systems in place to
identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer was at risk of fraud; and, in
some situations, making additional checks before processing payments or declining them
altogether to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud. And Ive seen
nothing to persuade me that a bank should be less vigilant, or fail to carry out due diligence,
just because the payment is by cheque.
That said, unlike electronic payments (including plastic card transactions), a cheque cant be
screened at the point of payment (which happens at the time of the writing and issuing of the
cheque). A drawers bank (in this case Santander) would only become aware of the request
for payment once the cheques are paid in by the payee and sent for clearing by the receiving
bank. The cheques issued by Mr J would have been cleared through the Image Clearing
System (ICS).
Under this new system, instead of sending the paper cheque, the payees bank sends a
digital image of the cheque to the drawers bank. This allows cheques to clear in two working
days instead of six. So, theres a limited window of opportunity for a bank to interrupt and
investigate a potentially fraudulent cheque payment.
The investigator did not make a finding about whether or not Santander ought to have
identified the payments as out of character. I intend to and to do so Ive considered the
operation of Mr Js account in the seven months leading up to the three cheque payments in
question. I cant see any other cheque payments from the account during that period. In my
view, this change in typical payment method represented unusual spending activity on the
account. I consider that Santander ought reasonably to have had cause for concern and I
think it could and should have carried out a few more checks to satisfy itself that everything
was okay.
But that isnt the end of the matter. Causation is a critical determinative factor in every scam
case. It isnt enough that a bank failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions
must be the immediate and effective cause of losses that were reasonably foreseeable at
the time of the breach.And I agree with the investigators view that had Santander intervened effectively with a
proportionate level of questioning about the payments it would not have prevented the scam.
I say this as at the time the cheques were paid in and sent for clearing I cannot see there
there would have been any identifiable concerns. The company was a legitimate listed
company. Mr J had paid an initial deposit and then further payments after a surveyor had
visited his home. He had a contract that detailed the work that was to be done and it seems
there was no publicly available adverse information about the company at that time. And
Mr Js order was not generated from a cold call or an unsolicited home visit, he had been
proactively looking for a supplier. So I dont think the answers Mr J would have given would
have indicated to Santander that he was at risk of financial harm and led it to provide a fraud
warning or to stop the payments altogether.
It follows I cant fairly hold Santander liable for Mr Js losses.
Ive then considered whether Santander did enough to recover Mr Js funds once it he raised
a fraud claim in December 2022. Banks are expected to assist their customers
in recovering misappropriated or misdirected funds when put on notice. I can see Santander
contact the beneficiary bank around 75 minutes after Mr J reported the fraud. The
beneficiary bank later confirmed no funds remained, but I find Santander acted as we would
expect.
Im sorry Mr J lost a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont
think Santander, who had no involvement in the scam itself, can be fairly held liable for his
losses.
Both parties responded with further comments. 
In summary, Mr J asked if we have found the payments were out of character why didnt the 
bank? He said it seems Santander investigated the scam in isolation and impeded the 
overall investigation by thwarting attempts to discover the recipients bank details. He asked 
for guidance on the next steps he can take to reclaim his losses. 
Santander set out its role in processing the cheques, explaining there was no opportunity for 
it to have intervened. And it said that any intervention would not have prevented the scam as 
at the time Mr J believed he was paying a genuine company. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed the additional comments from both parties but they do not change 
my conclusion and I am not upholding Mr Js complaint. I will explain why.
Mr J said the bank should have identified the payments as out of character. And I set out in 
my provisional decision why I thought it ought to have. The bank replied explaining why it 
had limited opportunity due to the payment processing for cheques. I acknowledge the 
differences in cheque processing to, say, faster payments. But as I noted in my provisional 
decision, this doesnt change the banks obligation to, in some situations, make additional 
checks before processing payments or declining them altogether to protect its customer from 
possible financial harm from fraud. Theres nothing to persuade me that a bank should be 
less vigilant, or fail to carry out due diligence, just because the payment is by cheque. 
However I need not comment further on this point as I am still of the view that had Santander carried out further and proportionate checks it would not have prevented the scam. 
As I explained in the provisional decision this is because I cannot see there would have been 
any identifiable concerns. The company was a legitimate listed company. Mr J had paid an 
initial deposit and then further payments after a surveyor had visited his home. He had a 
contract that detailed the work that was to be done and it seems there was no publicly 
available adverse information about the company at that time. And Mr Js order was not 
generated from a cold call or an unsolicited home visit, he had been proactively looking for a 
supplier. So I dont think the answers Mr J would have given would have indicated to 
Santander that he was at risk of financial harm. So even if it had identified the payments as 
unusual, the subsequent intervention would most likely not have prevented the scam.
Mr J also raised that Santander did not do enough to assist him afterwards. But from the 
evidence I have seen it contacted the beneficiary bank around 75 minutes after he reported 
the scam. So I find it acted as we would expect in trying to recover the money. I note Mr J 
feels Santander investigated the scam in isolation and did not share details with the 
beneficiary bank, but my interpretation of the response letter from the third party was that it 
was unable to share information about the beneficiary with Mr J due to data protection, and 
that would be the same if there was a fraud investigation. I have seen no evidence 
Santander withheld information from the recipients bank that prevented the recovery of the 
money.
Mr J asked for guidance on what more he can do to try and recover his losses. I can only 
comment here on the merits of his complaint against Santander. But he might be able to 
pursue his complaint through the courts if he does not accept my decision. 
As I said previously, Im sorry Mr J lost a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Santander, who had no involvement in the scam itself, can be 
fairly held liable for his losses.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman