DRN-3234661
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains about what happened when it paid a cheque written in
euros into its account with National Westminster Bank Plc.
Mr L brings this complaint on behalf of C.
  
What happened
Mr L told us that he paid a cheque into NatWest for C, and NatWest lost it. He said no one
had explained what had happened, or why his calls werent returned.
NatWest said that it hadnt lost Cs cheque, but it had given him wrong advice, and it caused
a delay in the cheque being cashed. NatWest said it was also sorry that it hadnt called Mr L
back when it said it would.
NatWest said it had made a payment to cover the expenses Mr L incurred in resolving this
issue, made up of £31.50 for travel costs, £22.50 for mileage, and £3 for parking, into Cs
account. It would also like to offer £250 in compensation.
Mr L didnt think NatWests offer was enough. He said hed been unable to do this job before
he received the payment, and told us how unhappy his customer was. He set out the time
hed spent trying to resolve this. He said that the outcome was that this customer, his first
overseas customer since Brexit, had cancelled their next order. And Mr L said that a
personal loan and his staff werent paid when the money from the cheque wasnt available.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr L was initially told that
Cs cheque hadnt been received by the processing department. Mr L went into a branch,
and NatWest couldnt tell him where the cheque was. Mr L complained.
Two weeks after the cheque was first deposited, NatWest confirmed the cheque had been
returned from the processing centre. It couldnt be paid, because the words on the cheque
didnt match the amount. Mr L arranged for a new cheque on the same day, and this was
paid into Cs account on 9 June.
Our investigator said that considering the impact on C, he thought NatWest should increase
its compensation offer to £350.
Mr L accepted this offer on behalf of C. But NatWest didnt reply  it says that emails were
sent indicating that the person our service was contacting was out of the office, but our
service doesnt appear to have received these. Frustrated by this further delay, Mr L said
that he wanted this case to be considered by an ombudsman. So the case was passed to
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
NatWest said to Mr L that it had only done a limited investigation into what went 
wrong, because it was sure this was its fault, not Cs or Mr Ls. But it is apparent from 
its internal notes that the cheque was seen by a central processing team, and that 
team decided it couldnt be cashed, because the amount written on the cheque in 
words wasnt the same as the amount written in numbers.
I dont think C would ever have had its money quite as early as Mr L hoped, because 
there was a problem with the cheque that Mr Ls customer sent. So I think there 
would always have been a small delay, while Mr L sorted this out, and got a new 
cheque.
But I wouldnt have expected this delay to be two weeks. It doesnt look like Mr L was 
initially told about the problem with the cheque  just that NatWest didnt know where 
it was.
Although NatWest is adamant that this cheque wasnt in fact lost, it was certainly 
misplaced, because for some time no one at NatWest knew where it was. And at the 
same time, Mr L wasnt aware that even if this cheque was found, it wouldnt be 
possible to cash it. When Mr L rang NatWest to see what had happened, it didnt tell 
him about the problem with the cheque, so he wasnt able to start the process of 
replacing it. And instead of being able to clear up a simple oversight with his new 
customer, he had to deal with an irate customer who understood that his payment 
had been lost by Cs bank.
Mr L accepted an offer of £350, on behalf of C, to settle this complaint. He then 
changed his mind because he thought that NatWest had also delayed in paying this 
money. I cant be sure that what went wrong then was NatWests fault. And I dont 
think that the rules of our service which cover how compensation is calculated for 
small businesses like C would allow me to increase compensation for this reason.
But I do think NatWest should pay C more compensation than our investigator 
suggested, because I dont think that the amount he recommended compensates C 
for its losses from what has happened here. C lost a new customer, and the future 
income stream from that customer. I think that, given what Mr L has told us about 
how irate this customer was at the problems he faced, its likely that what went wrong 
here played a significant part in that. C has also suffered reputational damage from 
not being able to pay its staff.
For these reasons, I think NatWest should pay C £500 in compensation, in addition 
to the amount it has already paid for Mr Ls expenses.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr L didnt reply on Cs behalf. NatWest simply accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank PLC must pay C £500 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman