DRN-4298633
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (trading as Link 
Financial) handled the collection of a debt in his name. 
What happened
In 2021, Link Financial started to manage the collection of a debt in the name of Mr M. He 
says that Link Financial ignored his attempts to make contact about the debt and proceeded 
to take legal action against him. 
Mr M says he received a letter from Link Financial on 17 September 2022 in which it said it 
would refer his account to solicitors if he didnt make contact within 14 days. Mr M says that 
he emailed Link Financial within the 14 day period with details of his budget. Mr M then sent 
an offer to Link Financial on 25 September 2022 but didnt receive a response. Mr M says he 
contacted Link Financial several times and asked that due to his personal circumstances, it 
should communicate solely by email. 
Mr M is unhappy that Link Financial proceeded to obtain a County Court judgment (CCJ) 
against him. Mr M points out that Link Financial upheld his complaint about the level of 
customer service he received. Mr M wants Link Financial to refund money and pay 
compensation for the impact on his mental health.
Our investigator explained to Mr M that this service could only consider his complaint as it 
related to any poor service leading up to legal action. Although he thought Link Financial 
could have provided better customer service, our investigator didnt recommend that it take 
further action. 
Mr M is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says Link Financial didnt tell him that it 
hadnt accepted his offer. So, he continued to follow up and wait for a response. 
Mr M also thinks it was unfair of Link Financial to move ahead with legal action before the 14 
day period had expired without first checking whether he had responded.
Our investigator thought that even if Link Financial didnt contact Mr M to reject his offer, the 
rejection was implied. And our investigator noted that there wasnt any evidence that Mr M 
had followed up the offer.
Our investigator accepted that Mr M responded within the 14 day period but thought that as 
his email was received on day 13, it was possible the reply hadnt been reviewed before the 
time expired. Our investigator said he considered this in the wider picture of there not being 
a guarantee that Link Financial would accept a reduced settlement. 
Although Mr M said he would respond fully to our investigator, we havent received any 
further information to consider, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained to Mr M, we can only consider his complaint as it relates to the 
actions of Link Financial before it obtained the CCJ. This is because once the CCJ was 
issued, the original credit agreement fell away and the balance was then owed under the 
CCJ not the original credit agreement. Debts owed because of a CCJ arent regulated 
agreements so there was no longer any regulated activity for our service to have jurisdiction 
over. This means I cant look at anything related to the CCJ itself. 
When Link Financial wrote to Mr M in September 2022, it gave him 14 days from the date of 
the letter to respond. As the letter was dated 7 September, the deadline ended on 21 
September 2022. 
Mr M emailed Link Financial on 20 September 2022 to provide a budget and to say that he 
hoped to be able to make an offer by the end of the week. The email doesnt reference Link 
Financials letter of 7 September 2022. Given the fact that the deadline for responding 
expired the next day  I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Mr M to reference this in 
some way. I cant see anything in Mr Ms email which shouldve reasonably prevented Link 
Financial from continuing to pass the file to its solicitor for further legal action. Particularly as 
Mr M didnt make the settlement offer until a few days later  by which time the solicitor was 
already involved. 
I also agree with the investigator that while email was one way to respond to Link Financials 
letter of 7 September 2022, it did say to make contact as a matter of urgency and gave the 
number to call. Given the fact that the deadline expired the next day, I think it would have 
been fair to expect Mr M to call Link Financial rather than relying on an email which may not 
be actioned the same day that it is received.
Im satisfied that Link Financial forwarded Mr Ms settlement offer email to the solicitor and 
that Mr M received the solicitors response. The situation wasnt helped by the fact that 
instead of responding to the solicitor, Mr M continued to email Link Financial. I agree that it 
would have been preferable for Link Financial to remind Mr M to contact the solicitor direct 
but if Mr M was struggling to hear back from Link Financial, I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect him to contact the solicitor as directed in its response to the offer that 
hed made. 
Although Mr M says Link Financials poor service denied him the chance to sort out the debt 
before legal action, there was never any guarantee that Link Financial would accept the offer 
he made  particularly as it would have involved taking on extra debt, which I agree didnt 
appear a sustainable option. Link Financial had also previously rejected a similar offer. So, 
Im struggling to find that legal action would have been avoidable, even if Mr M had 
responded to Link Financial sooner than he did. I also take account of the fact that Mr M had 
the option to work with the solicitor instead of continuing to contact Link Financial.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but although I agree that Link Financials customer service 
could have been better in places, for the reasons outlined above, I dont require it to take any 
action in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman