DRN-3812730
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited didnt offer it the best pricing 
available and provided poor service.
What happened
C had a merchant services account. In November 2021 it explains it contacted WorldPay 
about the fees and charges. A rate review was undertaken, and it was offered different rates. 
C was unhappy with this and made arrangements to move to a different provider. But before 
it could a member of the sales team contacted it and offered a significant reduction in the 
monthly charge. And when it decided to close its account WorldPay wanted a months 
notice.
WorldPay said it hadnt made a mistake. It had notified C of an increase in pricing in October 
2020, and these had applied from 1 January 2021. The rate review in November 2021 was it 
stated to C specific to the account, the products it utilises and the historic transactional data 
and the historical transactional data associated with that account. The prices offered to you 
by the Sales Team are based on estimated information provided by the business. C was on 
a rolling contract and required to provide notice. It accepted that it had dealt badly with a call 
from C and not ensured it was dealing with the correct team. And so, it paid C £27.50 
towards call costs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that WorldPay had 
acted in line with the terms and conditions. And it hadnt overcharged C.
C didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It was unhappy at the way small 
businesses were treated. It had no idea what WorldPay had put forward but didnt see how 
we could think that C hadnt been overcharged and not denied fair pricing.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, and we dont have a role in setting business processes or 
pricing.
WorldPay has provided information to this service to show that it followed its processes. It 
gave a required two months notice of an increase in pricing for C that applied from January 
2021. It undertook a rate review, and it has told this service that the monthly gateway 
charge then of £100 wasnt negotiable. WorldPay offered C different rates which it didnt take 
up. 
C says it was separately contacted by the sales team and offered a tariff with a monthly 
gateway payment of only £21. WorldPay has explained that this isnt for the same product 
that C had and that there were different features. It refers for example to settlement for this 
product being in batch rather than daily and different support provided. C didnt accept that 
offer of a different product having as I understand it already integrated a new provider to its 
website. C said it wanted to close its account and the terms and conditions do set out that a 
months notice is required.
As far as the pricing applied is concerned I make the following comments based on the 
information. A change in pricing was communicated to C in line with the agreement terms. C 
didnt object to that at the time and these fees and charges were applied. Ive no evidence 
that any mistake in applying that pricing was made. C didnt accept the outcome of a rate 
review. That pricing review was at the commercial discretion of WorldPay.
The key issue here is whether WorldPay should have offered a different product any earlier 
and specifically in response to Cs contact. I fully understand Cs point about this. But 
unfortunately, I dont see a specific requirement for WorldPay to do so. The review it 
undertook in November 2021 was limited by it in scope to the existing product. The sales 
review was about a different product. It may be that unless C had indicated it might be 
leaving then WorldPay wouldnt offer a product with different features and with different 
pricing. And that would reasonably be a matter for its sales team and again its commercial 
discretion.
I can see why C thinks that WorldPay ought to have acted differently. But Im afraid I dont 
have a basis to find it made a mistake about pricing and in applying the terms of its 
agreement. It paid Cs call costs reflecting poor service, and Im not going to be requiring it to 
anything further. I can appreciate why the director of C will be disappointed at this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman