DRN-4297845
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a personal loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He 
says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
L2G provided Mr S with a loan for £2,000.00 in May 2021. This loan had an APR of 277.9% 
and a term of 104 weeks. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £5,791.76, 
including interest, fees and charges of £3,791.76, was due to be repaid in 104 weekly 
instalments of £55.69. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr S complaint and that thought that it didnt do anything 
wrong when providing Mr S with his loan. So she didnt recommend that Mr S complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 7 August 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 7 August 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mr S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr S complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I was concerned that L2Gs own checks showed that Mr S income was significantly less 
than half than the £2,500.00 he declared. Furthermore, the amount being advanced was 
almost twice Mr S monthly income and the payments for this agreement alone would be 
taking up close to 20% of Mr S income.
 
The credit search carried out also appeared to show that Mr S had had difficulties paying his 
utilities too. He had one account that was more than six months in arrears and another that 
had been in a similar position but had since been brought up to date. Bearing all of this in 
mind, I was satisfied that L2G needed to find out more about Mr S actual monthly 
expenditure before concluding that the payments to this loan were affordable for him.
Mr S had provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
his loan. I accepted that different checks might show different things. And just because 
something showed up in the information Mr S provided, it didnt mean it would have shown 
up in any checks L2G might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from L2G showing what this information would have 
shown, I thought that it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on what this information said as an indication of what Mr S financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I thought that it was also important to note that L2G was required to establish whether Mr S 
could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might have been an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. 
But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, I thought that it followed that a lender should 
realise, or that it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wouldnt be 
able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
I carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.
The information provided showed that the reason for Mr S indebtedness and apparent 
inability to manage his money. Given what I was, it was apparent to me that Mr S was 
unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
As this was the case, I do think that Mr S existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr S. As L2G 
provided Mr S with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. And I concluded by setting out that it was therefore 
my intention to uphold this complaint. 
I then set out a method of putting things right which I thought addressed L2Gs failings and 
Mr S resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S confirmed that he agreed with my provisional decision and that he had nothing further 
to add.
L2G also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It also confirmed that it agreed with 
my provisional decision and that it had nothing further to add. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr S complaint in my provisional decision 
of 7 August 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to consider, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mr S complaint about 
and I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that L2G should put things right for Mr S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr S made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,000.00 originally lent. If Mr S has 
already repaid more than £2,000.00 then L2G should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give           
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 7 August 2023, Im 
upholding Mr S complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman