DRN-3966113
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader, trading as D. Hes unhappy with what Covea Insurance plc did after he 
made a claim on his Tradesman and Contractor Insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2012 Mr H entered into a construction contract to build two properties. In February 2016 
he contacted Covea about damp in the basement of one of the properties. Investigations at 
that time suggested the cause was a leak from a water softener which had been installed by 
a different contractor. Coveas loss adjusters didnt think this was something Mr H was 
responsible for. Covea denied liability to the claimants on that basis. 
In January 2019 Mr H contacted Covea again because hed received a letter from solicitors 
acting for the claimants which alleged work hed carried out had led to water entering the 
basement. Covea said the policy didnt cover defective work but Mr H argued the work hed 
carried out wasnt defective. Covea again appointed loss adjusters but turned down the 
claim in October 2019 on the basis the policy didnt cover damage to contract works or 
making good alleged defects. 
Mr H had further discussions with Covea in December 2019 following the receipt of draft 
proceedings against him. He maintained the issue didnt relate to defective workmanship. 
Covea agreed to instruct an expert to review the updated evidence and received reports 
from them in January and April 2020. 
In December 2020 Covea said it wouldnt be covering the claim because it thought the 
damage had occurred prior to the commencement of its policy. And it thought the claim 
wouldnt be covered in any event because of the exclusions in the policy relating to contract 
works or making good alleged defects.  However, it accepted it could have explained that to 
Mr H earlier and letters could have been emailed rather than being posted to him. It offered 
to pay £200 in recognition of the inconvenience that caused. 
Our investigator didnt think Covea was right about the start date of Mr Hs policy. So she 
didnt think it had correctly turned down the claim on the basis damage occurred prior to this 
starting. But she agreed the policy didnt cover contract works and Covea was therefore right 
to have declined cover on that basis. However, she thought it should have been apparent to 
Covea from May 2018 this wasnt a public liability claim and that should have been made 
clear to Mr H then. She thought Covea should pay him £500 because that wasnt explained 
at an earlier stage. 
Covea didnt agree. It accepted there were some customer service failings but said it did 
respond to Mr Hs claim in October 2019. It thought there had been a delay of around four 
months here and didnt think further compensation beyond the £200 it had already offered 
was warranted. Mr H said Covea had accepted his claim and should be responsible for 
settling it. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. The public liability section does 
provide cover for sums you become legally liable to pay as Compensation and Costs and 
Expenses as a result ofdamage to material property. So that could potentially cover the 
issues that have arisen in this case. 
However, that section goes on to explain damage is only covered where it occurs during the 
Period of Insurance. And Covea says when it received details of the claim against Mr H in 
January 2019 that indicated the damage dated from October 2014 which was before his 
policy was first taken out. But I dont think Covea are correct in relation to the policy start 
date. Mr H has provided a policy schedule which shows he had cover with Covea from 
January 2014. So I dont think Covea were right to use that as a ground to turn down the 
claim. 
However, I think the more important issue here is the claim made against Mr H is excluded 
by the terms of his policy. The public liability section says it doesnt cover any liability forming 
part of the Contract Works. The definition of contract works includes temporary or 
permanent works completed or to be completed as part of any contract. The policy also 
excludes costs arising from the need to repair or rectify Contract Works or defective work. 
And the policy only covers public and employers liability and commercial legal expenses; it 
doesnt include cover for contract works. 
In this case there was some discussion between Mr H and Covea over whether the claim 
against him related to defective work. That led to Covea carrying out further investigations. 
But regardless of that the claim does in any case appear to relate to works completed or to 
be completed as part of any contract. That isnt something covered under Mr Hs policy. 
I appreciate that some of these issues may have arisen after practical completion of the work 
and could arguably fall outside of the contract works exclusion. But even if that is the case I 
think the claim would still be caught by the exclusion relating to costs arising from the need 
to repair or rectify contract works. So I think it was fair of Covea to turn down the claim Mr H 
made. 
Mr H has said Covea accepted his claim and should therefore be responsible for settling it. 
Ive reviewed the information hes provided in support of this. But while I appreciate there are 
references to Covea carrying out further investigation into whats happened I dont think it 
made any definitive commitment to accept the claim in full or make payment in respect of it. 
However, I do think Covea should have identified at an earlier point the exclusions it 
subsequently relied on to turn down the claim. I accept when Mr H first contacted it in 
February 2016 it reasonably needed to carry out further investigation to establish whether 
the claim was covered by his policy. And given the evidence suggested Mr H wasnt liable 
for the damage caused I understand why it responded on that basis. But I think Covea could also have made clear to Mr H at that time the policy exclusions as 
they relate to contract works. Mr H said in an email to its loss adjusters in June 2016 that the 
entire build and fit out of the property formed part of the original contract works and the 
suggested repairs related to those works. So Covea was clearly aware of the connection 
between the claim and the contract works from that date and could have highlighted the 
policy exclusions to Mr H at that time. 
Alternatively, and as our investigator said, it appears Covea was advised in May 2018 by the 
loss adjuster this might not amount to a public liability claim. So there was an opportunity at 
that point for Covea to have reviewed matters and advised Mr H in relation to policy 
coverage. In fact it doesnt appear Mr H was told until February 2019 that his policy might 
not cover this claim (when issues relating to the exclusion for defective works were 
discussed with him). And a claim decline letter Covea subsequently issued wrongly 
suggested Mr H only had cover from 2015 when its clear this was in place from 2014. 
Covea has also accepted letters should have been emailed to Mr H and there was a delay in 
matters being progressed prior to a decline letter being issued. I think all that will have 
caused Mr H inconvenience at what was a difficult time with the threat of legal action against 
him. I think £500 is appropriate to recognise the impact on him of what Covea got wrong. 
Mr H says because Covea didnt make clear to him this policy wouldnt cover his claim it 
prejudiced his position in pursuing the claim with another insurer. But I dont think that is the 
case; Mr H says he contacted his broker to make a claim on the other policy in 2017. I 
appreciate the advice he received at the time indicated that policy wouldnt cover him but the 
allegations made against him in January 2019 were different and he was aware from 
February 2019 that Covea had concerns as to whether its policy would cover the claim he 
was then making. His complaint about the decision the other insurer subsequently made is 
something Ive considered in a separate decision against that insurer.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance plc will need to put things right by 
paying Mr H £500. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman