DRN-3400878
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the service shes received from Capital One (Europe) plc surrounding 
an application she made for a credit account.
What happened
In November 2021, Ms S applied online to Capital One for a new credit account. Following 
this application, Capital One asked Ms S to provide proof of her address to enable her 
application to proceed. Ms S sent proof of her address to Capital One by email and then 
contacted them in early December 2021 to check it had been received. Ms S was then told 
that the proof of address needed to be sent via post, and Ms S sent a letter to Capital One 
with the correct documents in early January 2022.
However, when Ms S then contacted Capital One, to check whether the documents had 
been received by them in the post, she was told that her credit account application had been 
cancelled because the proof of address hadnt been received in time. Mr S wasnt happy 
about this, or that Capital One wouldnt remove the hard search that had been incurred 
during the application from her credit file, so she raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Ms Ss complaint. They felt that theyd given Ms S sufficient time to 
provide the proof of address to them and didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Ms S 
by cancelling the account application when they did. Capital One also noted that they had an 
obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, and because they had 
undertaken a search of Ms Ss credit file for the application, they didnt feel that Ms Ss credit 
file should be amended to remove that search.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that Capital 
One had acted unfairly towards Ms S in how theyd managed this situation, and so they 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Ms S might be unhappy that Capital One cancelled her credit account 
application, especially as they did so after she had sent the proof of identity documents to 
them in the post. 
However, its notable that Capital One first requested the proof of identity documents from 
Ms S by letter immediately following Ms S submitting the account application in November 
2020. As such, Im satisfied that Capital One did provide Ms S with ample time and 
opportunity to provide the requested documents before finally cancelling the application 
when the documents still hadnt been received by them approximately six weeks later, in 
early January 2021.
Capital One have been able to demonstrate that they sent letters to Ms S requesting the 
proof of address documents dated 24 November, 27 November, 29 November, and 1 
December 2021. Following the sending of these letters, Ms S sent what she considered to 
be a proof of address document to Capital One on 3 December 2021. But this document 
didnt meet the criteria required by Capital One, and so couldnt be accepted by them. 
Ms S then spoke with Capital One on 6 December 2021 to confirm whether Capital One had 
received the proof of address that shed sent. At that time, Ms S was told that the document 
shed provided wasnt sufficient and was told what documents were required. And it was also 
explained to Ms S that the documents would need to be original documents sent in the post. 
Capital One also sent Ms S a follow up letter after this conversation dated 7 December 2021 
which confirmed what documents were acceptable and reiterating that they needed to be 
posted - and providing a freepost envelope for Ms S to do so. This letter also confirmed that 
these documents needed to be received by Capital One within the next ten days.
But Ms S didnt post the required documents to Capital One within the required timeframe 
and has confirmed that she only posted the documents to Capital One on 2 January 2022. 
Postal service delays meant that this document wasnt received by Capita One until 7 
January, which was a day after theyd cancelled the account application on 6 January 
because the proof of address documents hadnt been received.
I can appreciate how it would be frustrating for Ms S to have learnt that Capital One 
cancelled the application the day before the documents were received by them, especially 
as post delays impacted the receipt date of the documents by Capital One. But I dont feel 
that its the case that the documents were received a day too late here. Rather, Im satisfied 
that Capital One kept the application open well past the given deadline of ten days after 7 
December 2021, and that Ms S didnt post the documents to Capital One until nearly 
approximately two weeks after that given deadline had passed.
Accordingly, I dont feel that Capital One have acted unfairly towards Ms S by cancelling the 
application when they did here, and neither do I feel that Capital One should be instructed to 
reopen that application as Ms S would like.
Finally, while I can understand how Ms S would like Capital One to amend her credit file to 
remove the search they performed as part of the application process before it was cancelled, 
Im satisfied that that search was legitimately performed as part of a valid application 
process. As such, the presence of that search on Ms Ss credit file provides an accurate 
report of what actually took place. 
Given that credit providers such as Capital One have an obligation to make accurate reports 
to the credit reference agencies  and given that Im satisfied that Capital One didnt act 
unfairly towards Ms S by cancelling the application when they did (as explained above)  it 
follows that I wont be instructing them to remove that search from Ms Ss credit file as she 
would like.
All of which means that I dont feel that Capital One have acted unreasonably or unfairly 
towards Ms S here, and consequently I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Capital One to take any further action at this time. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Ms S was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman