DRN-3141004
The complaint
Mr O complains about delays caused by Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) when 
dealing with his buildings and contents insurance claim.  
All references I make to Fairmead include agents appointed to act on Fairmeads behalf.
  
What happened
Mr Os house had a burst pipe which he reported to his insurance broker (broker). The 
broker then notified Fairmead and said an escape of water from the upstairs toilet had 
caused damage in the house. Fairmead then appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the 
damage to Mr Os house. Mr O felt Fairmead were taking too long to deal with the claim so 
he complained. Mr O said there was a lack of communication and Fairmead werent 
responding to emails and phone calls made by the broker. 
Fairmead responded to the complaint and set out the steps they and the loss adjuster had 
taken in relation to the claim. They said, following the loss adjusters visit to Mr Os house, 
policy liability had been agreed and cash settlement offers had been sent to the broker for 
reinstatement works. They said a second visit was being arranged as further reported 
damage needed to be verified as well as damage to contents Mr O was claiming for. In 
relation to Mr Os complaint about a lack of communication, Fairmead said both they and the 
loss adjuster had been in constant contact with the broker with updates.       
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr O and Fairmead on 4 October 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ill start off by saying, this has clearly been a long-running event with negotiations 
continuing between the parties while our service has been looking into the complaint. 
Some issues have been resolved so Ive focussed my decision on what I think are 
the outstanding areas of dispute. 
I understand Fairmead have made two payments. One payment of £6,239 is for 
reconstruction costs and another payment of £10,833.80 which is the balance of all 
other losses. Mr O says the only outstanding invoices relate to the VAT for electricity, 
plaster work and floor restoration. This is in line with what Fairmead have confirmed. 
They say they are awaiting final VAT invoices for trades used but theres no other 
payments in dispute. So, I wont be looking into any of these losses as Mr O has 
received the payments claimed. 
Mr O says the payment of £6,239 was made on 30 November 2020 even though 
evidence of this loss was presented to the broker in June 2020. And, the payment of 
£10,833.80 was made on 15 June 2021 which is a year after the loss was registered 
and presented to Fairmead. So, Ive looked into the timeframe over which Fairmead 
have handled the claim.  
I can see the broker notifies Fairmead of the claim on 15 June 2020. Fairmead 
contact Mr O a few days later and their notes say Mr O told them only one room was 
affected and the ceiling in the utility room had collapsed. The notes says a dryer 
might be required and Mr O has someone arriving later in the day to clear up and do 
an estimate. There is a note which says a contractor has installed drying equipment 
and Fairmead confirm this is ok as its safeguarding the property but once Mr O gets 
costs then Fairmead will need to appoint a loss adjuster. 
The broker sends an estimate for redecoration and contents to Fairmead and theres 
a note which says correspondence has been received from Mr O which says that, at 
first notification stage, the damage was described as minimal but Mr O wasnt aware 
of contents damage. The note says theres a contents claim at over £8,000 and 
buildings damage over £2,000. An email is sent to the broker the same day letting 
them know that, due to the costs involved, Fairmead have appointed a loss adjuster 
 which they do at the end of July. 
Then in early August the broker sends all information from their file to Fairmead. The 
loss adjuster attends Mr Os property on 7 August. Over the next few weeks the 
broker chases the loss adjuster for an update. Initially, and despite assurances they 
will get a call back, the broker doesnt hear back from the loss adjuster. The loss 
adjuster then says they need to return to Fairmead for instructions as it appears strip 
out works were arranged by Mr O without authority from Fairmead. All documents are 
again sent to Fairmead at the end of August. Theres further chasers to Fairmead 
over the next two weeks and they confirm the costs they are able to agree. Then in 
mid-September, the broker provides Fairmead with the quote for the electrical works 
and further details relating to the contents claim. 
The quote for the electrical work and plasterwork is then agreed by Fairmead and a 
quote for the plumbing work and decorative works is sent to them. Fairmead raise 
queries about some items under the contents claim and then in early October the 
broker sends the information requested which includes replacement costs for 
contents which Mr O has sourced online. I can see from 22 October to 3 November 
Fairmead try to call Mr O and the broker to arrange a second visit for the loss 
adjuster to inspect the damaged contents but the calls arent answered. Fairmead 
also send text messages and emails to Mr O asking him to contact them. Over the 
next week, a quote is provided for the plasterwork as well as clarity on the electrical 
works quote. 
Fairmead email the broker on 22 November and say they have raised payments for 
the flooring, decorative work, plastering, electrical works and strip out work. Fairmead 
also confirm approval for a number of contents which they list. Mr O then receives 
payment for the repair works at the end of November.   
The broker sends a link to a video to Fairmead in early December  theres a note 
beside the link which says its only available until 8 January 2021. The broker then 
provides further information relating to the contents claim on 7 January 2021, in 
particular, items which werent included in Fairmeads list of approved items. Looking 
at this information, it appears the broker had already supplied evidence for a number 
of these items. For example, photos of the log baskets and sun umbrella had already 
been sent but they were missed off Fairmeads list. So, Mr O had to refer to the fact 
that photos had already been provided. 
I can see, at the point our investigator shares her view in February, there are a 
number of outstanding issues. This includes not agreeing to pay for all of the 
redecoration works. Fairmead also, at this point, have already agreed to pay for 
some of the contents but not all. And, in respect of the items not agreed, the broker has sent photos, a video and a detailed description of these items together with 
replacement estimates from websites. But, I cant see Fairmead have given reasons 
for why they arent satisfied with the information provided about these items. And, Mr 
O has already paid an invoice for restoration work to a damaged painting and 
provides photos and a video showing this and has also explained to Fairmead that 
they can contact the company who carried out the restorative works. I cant see 
Fairmead contact this company or provide reasons why they wont consider this loss. 
Fairmead say the loss adjuster confirms they have considered the photos and video 
but they dont show the damage sustained to a lot of the contents being claimed for. 
They say, in order for the claim to reach conclusion, Mr Os co-operation is required 
to validate the outstanding items. Following this, I can see Fairmead request an 
updated link to the video as it has expired. The broker asks Mr O to resend this. This 
is resent and Fairmead then say theyve watched the video and feel there isnt 
enough evidence to demonstrate the contents were damaged beyond repair by the 
escape of water. They say the video is only a couple of minutes long and only shows 
a couple of rooms. They say the video shows the contents in the utility room but 
theres not enough to show the contents were damaged beyond repair. They say the 
items are dirty but theres no evidence this was caused by the escape of water or that 
they could not have been restored. Fairmead also say the furniture in the utility room 
looks very old and the damage looks to be caused by wear and tear rather than 
escape of water. Mr O says at this point, he still hasnt received payment for the 
contents which have already been agreed and no payment for redecoration costs 
which have been agreed.  
Then in early May the broker asks Fairmead for an update on the position with the 
contents agreed and whether an interim payment can be made. Fairmead respond 
and say they havent agreed any interim payments for the contents as they are still 
validating it. The broker queries this and refers to Fairmeads email in November 
2020 agreeing to a list of contents. Fairmead respond and say this must have been 
an error on their part as expensive items like a washing machine require verification 
from a trusted third party such as a restoration company or a loss adjuster. They say 
the position is that they dont have sufficient evidence to validate the claim for 
contents so are unable to make any payments. 
Mr O raises a complaint about receiving conflicting information and Fairmead reply 
and apologise for the misinformation. They confirm they dont have enough evidence 
to validate any of the contents and, as the contents were disposed of before the loss 
adjusters visit, they are unable to send out anyone to validate them. Fairmead ask 
for any further evidence to support of any of the damaged contents, such as more 
pictures or a report on testing of the electrical items by the contractors who disposed 
of them. I understand all claims are then settled by Fairmead in June and this 
includes the claim for damaged contents.        
Having considered all information in the matter, I dont think the service has been 
reasonable here and theres a number of areas where I think the service has fallen 
short and had an impact on Mr O and the progress of his claim. 
I can see information relating to the claim is sent to Fairmead between June to 
October 2020. The majority of the claim for repairs works is then settled in 
November. 
I can see Fairmead respond to the investigators view and say theyre waiting for 
acceptance of the contents offer made or further substantiation for items that had not 
been approved. I cant however see what specific information they require that hasnt 
already been sent by Mr O and the broker. And, if the information provided up to that point wasnt sufficient, I cant see Fairmead provide reasons why they arent satisfied 
with the evidence already provided. 
Fairmead say that Mr O wouldnt permit a second visit from the loss adjuster so this 
prejudiced Fairmeads position. I can see Fairmead do try to arrange a second visit at 
the end of October 2020 but Mr O feels his expenses should be paid for travelling to 
his house. This is a second home for Mr O and he says hell now need to travel there 
specifically for a second visit by the loss adjuster but doesnt understand why the 
contents couldnt have been inspected by them during the first visit. 
Its clear from the information Ive seen and the timeline of events, that Fairmead 
were made aware, prior to the loss adjusters visit, that Mr O was also claiming for 
damage to contents. The loss adjusters report says In terms of any contents 
damaged, these have all been disposed off [sic] by the customers builders Mr O 
says this is incorrect and the majority of contents were left in their original place in 
the house  the only contents removed were those items which had the potential to 
cause further damage. And he removed these items following approval from 
Fairmead. I can see from the loss adjusters report, theyve included photos of a 
number of items still in place in the house. So, it shouldve been clear that Mr O 
hadnt disposed of all contents. So, its not clear why all items that were in the house 
couldnt have been inspected by the loss adjuster during the visit in August. This led 
to a disagreement between the parties with Mr O, understandably, concerned about 
why he should be expected to travel to his second home to enable the loss adjuster 
to carry out an inspection which couldve taken place during the first visit. 
I think its also important to point out that, while Fairmead are asking for further 
information beyond the photos and video, and insisting on a second visit by a loss 
adjuster, they end up settling the claim in June 2021 without either of these. In May 
2021, Fairmead are still claiming they dont have sufficient information to validate the 
contents claim, but I cant see Mr O or the broker send any further material 
information which then leads to Fairmead settling the claim. So, I think its fair to 
conclude Fairmead based their decision to settle on the information they already had 
 and this being the information sent to them many months before. So, I havent been 
provided with any reasonable explanation for why Fairmead couldnt have settled the 
contents claim sooner. 
I can also see there have been occasions where the broker has had to resend 
information already sent to Fairmead and had to chase for updates. This meant that 
the claim took longer than it shouldve to resolve. And, while Mr O wanted to arrange 
the repair works for September 2020, the delay meant this had to be arranged for 
January 2021. An example of this is the video. This was sent to Fairmead in 
December with details of when the link would expire. Fairmead ask for further 
information and Mr O does, quite rightly, point out that the video provides evidence of 
the further information being requested. I dont think Fairmead had, at that point, 
considered the video given the further information they request. And, my view is 
further supported by the fact that Fairmead again request this video in March 2021 as 
the previous link has expired. This shows Fairmead hadnt considered all relevant 
information prior to making requests for further evidence. And, it shows Mr O had to 
resend information already provided.            
Taking this all into account, I think Fairmead should pay compensation to Mr O. I 
think the claim has taken longer than it shouldve to settle and, along the way, Mr O 
and the broker have had to chase for updates. Theyve also had to resend 
information already provided and not received clear and specific details on why the 
information sent in support of the claim wasnt sufficient. Its clear Mr O is becoming increasingly frustrated at the delays and the incorrect information he receives about 
items forming part of his contents claim. And, he understandably becomes further 
frustrated when Fairmead say they will settle some of his contents claim in 
November, only to then change their mind six months later. So, I think Fairmead 
should pay compensation of £300 to Mr O for the frustration caused.    
So, subject to any further comments from Mr O or Fairmead, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require Fairmead to pay compensation of 
£300 to Mr O. 
Following my provisional decision, Mr O responded and said he agrees almost entirely with 
the findings but doesnt feel the compensation reflects the financial loss, the irritation and the 
professional time he has had to spend dealing with this matter. Mr O feels the award should 
represent 15% of the total claim. Mr O says, even this figure doesnt represent the time hes 
had to spend and his resulting loss of income, but he feels it would act as a lesson to 
Fairmead to look after their customers. Mr O also feels any settlement should include an 
interest charge. 
Mr O also says he has spoken with his solicitor and they feel the compensation isnt 
reasonable considering the work was rescheduled three times over an eight-month period. 
Mr O says his house was unusable during this period. Mr O says he, and his family, were 
effectively camping in the house for nearly a year. Mr O says had he known Fairmead would 
take this long, he wouldve rented a similar property in the area and charged this to 
Fairmead.   
Fairmead have responded and say they disagree with the findings. They say the offers made 
in relation to the contents were made in error by the loss adjuster, however they stood over 
these offers despite there being no relevant validation of this claim. Fairmead also refer to 
emails sent to our service in March 2021 which they ask to be taken into consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
In relation to Mr Os comments, I dont doubt this has caused inconvenience over a longer 
period than it shouldve done. Im not persuaded though the award of compensation should 
represent 15% of the total claim. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, its not clear what the 
15% represents and we generally base compensation on the impact an event has had on a 
customer rather than it being a percentage of the claim. Secondly, 15% of the total claim 
works out to around £2,500, and I dont think the impact here justifies an award at this level. I 
do accept Mr O has been caused trouble and inconvenience but I think its important to take 
into account a number of factors. 
Ive looked at Mr Os policy documents for the house which was subject of the claim and its 
described, and insured as, a Holiday/Secondary home. In the Statement of Fact Mr O 
confirms the house isnt his primary residence and its left regularly unattended. And, it also 
gives a separate address as Mr Os correspondence address. So, its clear from this, the 
house wasnt Mr Os primary residence so I cant say the delays caused by Fairmead have 
had a daily impact on Mr Os living arrangements. I agree it meant the house couldnt be used as a holiday home during the period Fairmead delayed in settling the claim but Mr O 
and his family were able to reside in their primary residence. So, while there has been an 
impact, I feel this was limited. 
Ive also considered Mr Os point about the professional time he has had to spend dealing 
with the matter and loss of income. But, when we consider awards for trouble and 
inconvenience, we generally wont apply a customers hourly rate and multiply this by the 
number of hours they say they have spent dealing with the matter. We look at the impact 
overall and the consequences which are directly attributable to the error caused by the 
business. So, taking this all into account, I remain of the view compensation of £300 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Mr O feels Fairmead should pay interest 
on the settlement. To compensate a customer for being deprived of money  that is, not 
having it available to use  we can tell a business to pay interest on top of the money award, 
for the period their customer was out of pocket. In this case, I cant see Mr O was out of 
pocket in relation to the claim for the reconstruction work as the information shows he sent 
Fairmead estimates and not receipted invoices  this suggests he wasnt seeking 
reimbursement of costs he himself had already paid out. 
In relation to the contents claim, I cant see Fairmead have at any point declined the claim. 
There have been delays but I cant say Fairmead have been wholly unreasonable in asking 
for further information to prove Mr Os claim. I think the loss adjuster couldve carried out an 
inspection of the contents during their first visit but after that Mr O couldve made 
arrangements to allow the loss adjuster to visit again as this mightve moved things forward 
quicker. Things then took longer with Fairmead asking for further information but this could 
all have been resolved by a second visit. So, while I do think Fairmead are partly responsible 
for this claim taking longer than it shouldve, I cant say they were wholly unreasonable in 
asking for further information. So, I wont be asking Fairmead to pay any interest on the 
settlement.   
I note Fairmeads point about the contents claim not being properly validated but I cant take 
that into account when it comes to an award of compensation. Fairmead have had an 
opportunity to consider the contents claim and, even if, as they say, an error has been made 
by their loss adjuster, that doesnt change my position on the reasonableness of a 
compensation award. Ive also looked again at the emails sent by Fairmead to our service in 
March 2021 and this sets out a timeline of events. Ive looked at the entire timeline from 
information provided by both parties and remain of the view things took longer than they 
shouldve  and this was partly down to Fairmead. 
I have already acknowledged that the loss adjuster tried to arrange a second visit and I do 
understand their reasons for wanting to undertake this. This led to a dispute, with Mr O 
pointing out why he should be inconvenienced in having to make a trip to his holiday home 
specifically for the loss adjuster to carry out a further inspection. I think its important for 
customers to co-operate with an insurer when theyre investigating a claim, but I can, in this 
case, understand Mr Os frustration.  
As Ive already pointed out, its clear Fairmead were made aware, prior to the loss adjusters 
visit, that Mr O was also claiming for damage to contents. And, the report shows the loss 
adjuster took photos of the contents during the visit. 
This did lead to a dispute and delay which I think couldve been avoided if the loss adjuster 
had carried out an inspection of those contents during the visit. Ive not been provided with 
any reasonable explanation for why the loss adjuster didnt do this at the time. So, I think 
Fairmead do have some responsibility for the issues which followed. I acknowledge 
Fairmeads point about requiring a second inspection but this position changes with 
Fairmead then asking for photos, a video and details of replacement costs which Mr O 
sources online. The contents claim is ultimately settled without a second inspection and, while I 
acknowledge Fairmeads point that the offer was made in error by the loss adjuster, it 
doesnt change the fact that its understandably a source of frustration for Mr O to see his 
claim being settled on the basis of information he had provided many months before. Ive set 
out in detail, in my provisional decision, why I think compensation should be paid to Mr O 
and, having carefully considered the information provided by Fairmead, I remain of that view.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that there have been errors in the service Fairmead have provided to    
Mr O. So, Fairmead should pay compensation to Mr O. I feel £300 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the frustration caused to Mr O. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay 
compensation of £300 to Mr O. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman