DRN-4020281
The complaint
Ms T complains Monzo Bank Limited (Monzo) requested unreasonable identification 
information to allow her to access and close her bank account with them.
What happened
Ms T says she contacted Monzo in September 2022 as her banking app wasnt recognising 
her mobile phone number. Ms T says Monzo then informed her she needed to identify 
herself by way of a selfie photo and separate identification by email, before it could look into 
the issue. Ms T then says she asked Monzo to close her bank account, but it refused to do 
so unless the selfie photo was provided along with a copy of acceptable identification. 
Ms T feels Monzo are being unreasonable asking for such identification and doesnt feel its 
secure and additionally its changing the terms to which the account operates, as she could 
previously conduct matters over the phone. Ms T feels Monzo havent made suitable 
adjustments for her given her health issues and difficulties reading correspondence. 
Ms T wants Monzo to close her account and compensate her for the time she has spent 
dealing with the matter. 
Monzo says as part of its identification process and procedures Ms T would have needed on 
opening the app-based bank account, to provide a video picture of herself and a form of 
identification and this is due to the fact as an app-based bank, its the most secure and safe 
way to identify its customers going forward. Monzo says because the details it held 
regarding Ms Ts telephone number didnt match, it needed a selfie along with suitable 
identification to ensure it was dealing with Ms T  but Ms T refused to provide this and as a 
result it couldnt help with her access to the banking app or close her bank account. 
Ms T wasnt happy with Monzos response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Monzo acted reasonably when it requested for Ms Ts identification by way 
of selfie and other identification, to look into her app issues or to close the bank account, as 
this was part of its process to identify her against the original selfie video it held, when she 
originally opened the app-based bank account. 
The investigator felt Monzo had also acted fairly when it offered £25 for the fact it had asked 
Ms T again for the same email details it already held. 
Ms T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I was sorry to hear of Ms Ts health and other issues and this must be a worry to her. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if Monzo acted reasonably when it asked for 
identification to be provided by way of a selfie and documented identification by email, 
before it could look into her banking app issues and ultimately close her bank account with 
them. 
The first thing to say here is Monzo offers app-based bank accounts and has no branches, 
so it would need different processes and procedures in order to identify its customers and 
meet the strict know your customer (KYC) requirements set by the regulatory authorities.
Here from the information provided to this service, Monzo informed Ms T the reasons she 
couldnt access her banking app in September 2022 was due to the fact the mobile phone 
number it held on her app wasnt valid. So Monzo asked Ms T to provide a selfie photo along 
with a suitable identification document so it could cross reference this with what it held on file 
when she opened the bank account. From the information I have seen, Monzo had 
previously sent Ms T messages in 2020 and 2021 prompting her to update her phone 
contact details  but these seemed to have been ignored by Ms T, that said its not possible 
for me to know whether or not Ms T ever read or received these messages or not, but I cant 
hold Monzo responsible for that. So here, there was clearly an issue over this matter for 
some time, so its not unreasonable for Monzo to ensure it held the correct telephone details 
on file. 
While Ms T doesnt feel its reasonable or secure for Monzo to request for this matter to be 
addressed by providing a selfie and other identification, given the nature of this business 
being app based, I cant see its unreasonable for it to request this information this way, as it 
did when the account was originally opened, after all it has no branch network for Ms T to 
visit to provide the information it was asking for to ensure it was talking to the account 
holder. 
Its not for me to tell Monzo how it must identify its customers when trying to ensure its 
speaking to the account holder, given its attempting to protect its customers personal details 
in line with its regulatory obligations to prevent, amongst other things, bank account fraud. 
Its also not my role, nor would it be fair for this service, to tell Monzo to specifically change 
its set customer identification processes and procedures to meet individual preferences. 
Ms T has suggested she has taken advice elsewhere and Monzo are in breach of its terms 
and conditions, but Im not able to comment on that advice as its not possible to know what 
information was provided or discussed. Additionally, I cant see any evidence to suggest Ms 
Ts bank account telephone details were altered by Monzo as she suggests, or by a third 
party in any way, its reasonable to assume these telephone details would have been 
provided by Ms T when she originally opened the app- based bank account. In addition, this 
matter was highlighted by Monzo back in 2020, even if Ms T has no recollection of ever 
receiving such messages regarding this, so this isnt a recent issue. 
So, on balance I am satisfied Monzo have acted reasonably in asking Ms T to provide 
identification in a similar way she was asked to when opening the account, in order to 
correctly identify her as the account holder here. It follows it would also require that same 
form of identification to close the bank account or to provide the Data Subject Access 
Request, I understand she has requested. I understand Ms T may not agree with my decision here and to help matters I will ask the 
investigator to ask Monzo for a contact name and telephone number for her to speak with, to 
make the process of providing the identification it needs as simple as possible. 
With that in mind I wont be asking anymore of Monzo here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman