DRN-2136765
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Leeds Building Society (LBS) transferred her fixed rate cash ISA 
before the maturity date and deducted an interest penalty. She would like the penalty repaid 
and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs L had a two-year fixed rate ISA with LBS. Around two weeks before the maturity date 
LBS wrote to Mrs L. She says the letter asked her to give instructions about the account 
before the maturity date. 
Mrs L found a better rate with another bank, Ill call P. She completed a transfer application 
with P and sent her account passbook to LBS to be updated. On 23 April 2020, a week 
before maturity, LBS wrote to her confirming it had received the transfer request from P and 
would arrange this as soon as possible. 
Mrs L says her passbook wasnt returned until around 21 May 2020. She says spurious 
entries had been made crediting then debiting interest. She queried this at her branch and 
says she was told everything was in order. But when she accessed her online account with 
P, she saw that the amount transferred by LBS had been reduced by around £135  the 
debit shown in the passbook.
Mrs L contacted LBS. It confirmed the debit was a 150-day loss of interest penalty as the 
transfer had been made before maturity. Mrs L complained and says there were several 
phone calls between her, her husband and LBS about the issue. LBS said it wrote on 27 
April 2020 confirming the amount transferred to P. Mrs L says this wasnt received, but as 
LBS still had her passbook, she wouldnt have known whether the amount transferred was 
subject to a penalty or not.
LBS didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had acted on the transfer instructions it received 
from P, which was to send the funds immediately. It said it was normal practice to update 
interest in passbooks a few days early. If funds were moved from the account before the 
interest was due then an adjustment was made, which is what had happened in this case.
Mrs L said she hadnt wanted to transfer before maturity. LBS said if P returned the funds, it 
would recredit the penalty and could keep the account open until 10 June 2020 to do this. 
Mrs L said she shouldnt need to ask P to send the money back and LBS should just 
reimburse her directly. LBS said this wasnt possible. Mrs L referred her complaint to our 
service. She said she hadnt treated her fairly as it should have queried the request to 
transfer before maturity and the penalty was disproportionate.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said LBS hadnt made an error or treated 
her unfairly. The instruction LBS had received from P confirmed that early closure was 
required. LBS had processed this promptly as it was required to. She said the interest 
penalty was clearly set out in the T&Cs. She said LBS didnt have to repay the penalty and 
by offering to do so it had done more than it needed to.
Mrs L replied in detail. She said our investigator hadnt considered everything. Or addressed 
her concerns about LBS not treating her fairly, as required by Financial Conduct Authority 
regulations. This included her key assertion that the interest penalty was disproportionately 
high at around 40% of the annual interest payable on the account for it being transferred 
only six days before the maturity date.
Mrs L said sending the transfer request early was an accident. She said the interest rate with 
P was lower than the fixed rate with LBS, which showed she wouldnt have wanted to 
transfer before maturity. But this was irrelevant as LBS had served her notice on the account 
by asking for maturity instructions, which she had provided. 
Our investigator didnt change her view. She said LBS hadnt made an error and had offered 
more than was required under the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) of the account to help Mrs 
L. She said our service couldnt tell LBS to change its procedures for processing business 
actions.
Mrs L said calls hadnt been listened to where LBS told her it would only refund the interest 
penalty if P paid it first, which showed the offer wasnt genuine. Our investigator confirmed 
with LBS that it had only been able to locate one call recording, concerning entries in the 
passbook. 
 
As Mrs L doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do not uphold the complaint.
I know Mrs L feels strongly about this and she has made many points about what has 
happened. I understand her frustration that only one call recording could be found, and Ive 
taken all her comments into account in coming to my decision. Having done so, I dont think 
LBS has made an error or treated Mrs L unreasonably. So, I think it made a fair offer to solve 
the issue when Mrs L told it what happened. 
The transfer request and communication
Mrs L accepts she submitted a request to transfer the ISA before the maturity date by 
accident. Ps instruction to LBS was that the transfer was to be done immediately. The T&Cs 
(set out in the Keyfacts document provided when Mrs L opened the account) set out 
timescales for transfers to be processed. Which was within five working days of being 
requested, in what is a largely automated system between ISA providers. LBS appears to 
have followed this process.
I dont think its reasonable to expect LBS to second guess the instruction and query it before 
actioning as it wasnt providing Mrs L with advice on her financial affairs. It received an 
instruction and acted on that in good faith. Mrs L says LBS failed to keep her informed, but it 
did write confirming it would process the transfer as soon as possible rather than at the 
maturity date. This might reasonably have prompted Mrs L to query what was being done. 
I can understand Mrs Ls frustration at not receiving the second letter which confirmed the 
transfer had been made and the amount sent. This was unfortunate as most post is 
successfully delivered. But as Mrs L has said this letter still wouldnt have provided all the 
necessary information to have alerted her to the issue any sooner.Whether LBS gave notice on the account
Mrs L says by writing to ask what she wanted to do, LBS had given her notice on the fixed 
rate as the letter required her to give instructions before maturity. LBS has provided a 
sample of the maturity letter that is sent to customers. It confirms the maturity date, the 
options available and what happens if alternative instructions arent provided. This being a 
default ISA account, if a transfer is required it says to contact the new provider.
In a separate section the letter does suggest that if a different account (with LBS) or a 
withdrawal is required that it is best to let us know before (before being a few days before 
the maturity date) and ideally that this should done through its online system.
Based on the sample maturity letter provided, I think its clear that this doesnt give notice on 
the fixed rate or waive any penalty for early withdrawal. It also doesnt require that 
instructions to be given early or otherwise, it just requests them. It clearly states the account 
doesnt mature until the specified date.
The passbook entries
I dont think there is anything suspicious about the entries or unreasonable about the 
explanation LBS has given about the corrections made. LBS has explained passbooks are 
often updated in advance of the actual maturity date. This doesnt seem unreasonable given 
the manual process involved in doing so. With the transfer being made before maturity an 
adjustment was made to deduct the penalty. This explanation seems to tally with entries 
made, and I havent seen anything to make me doubt this or think otherwise. 
The solution offered
Once Mrs L let LBS know it hadnt been her intention to transfer early, I think it acted 
reasonably in offering a solution. Mrs L says this wasnt a genuine offer and the missing calls 
would show that in fact LBS required P to pay the penalty. Its unfortunate that these calls 
arent available. But LBS does set out its offer in the final response letter:
As previously advised, in order for us to reimburse the penalty interest, we would be 
obliged if you could contact  P  and ask them to return the funds. We have 
temporarily opened your ISA Account to allow this to happen but if we do not hear 
from you, this will be closed on 10 June 2020 and we will not be able to accept the 
funds after this date.
There isnt any stipulation here that P makes good the penalty itself. 
The letter does suggest that Mrs L could ask P to cover the penalty. This was on the basis 
that Mrs L maintained she hadnt agreed to any penalty, but by requesting early encashment 
P had incurred one. If this wasnt what Mrs L had instructed P to do, I think the suggestion 
that she could ask P was reasonable. And it was only an alternative suggestion to the 
solution already prosed. 
Mrs L said she didnt want to ask P to send the funds back to LBS as the rate of interest with 
it was lower and she would have lost a two-year fixed rate deal with P. She says LBS should 
have just reimbursed her directly rather than requiring P to send the funds back. But LBS 
hadnt made an error and reimbursing the penalty was more than it needed to do, so I dont 
think asking for this to be done in line with its own processes was unreasonable. 
The interest rate penaltyMrs L says this is disproportionate and unfair as the funds were transferred only a few days 
before the maturity. But the loss of interest penalty was clearly and prominently set out in the 
Keyfacts document. Such penalties are also very common features of fixed term accounts 
when funds are withdrawn early. 
As the potential penalty was clearly disclosed, I cant reasonably say it was disproportionate 
or unreasonably applied. Mrs L had a choice between easy access and lower rates of 
interest or a higher rate with restrictions and I think she was made aware of the conditions 
and consequences of early withdrawal from the LBS account 
So, whilst it is unfortunate Mrs L suffered the interest penalty, I think LBS was acting on Mrs 
Ls instructions in keeping with the T&Cs. I dont think it made any error. I think it offered a 
solution to the problem even though it wasnt necessarily obliged to. I think LBS has treated 
Mrs L fairly and reasonably, so I wont be asking it to do any more than it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I dont uphold the complaint against Leeds Building Society.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman