DRN-3662349
The complaint
Mrs H says MBNA Limited failed to close her account as she requested and incorrectly 
continued to charge interest on the balance. 
What happened
Mrs H says she asked for her account to be closed on 12 August 2019, but this wasnt done. 
At this time she says MBNA told her no interest would then be charged but she later 
discovered it was. She wants all interest applied from 12 August 2019 to date to be refunded 
and asks for compensation.
MBNA says it sent a letter about an interest rate change on 12 August 2019 but has no 
record of a requested account closure at this time. The account was closed on 2 January 
2020. MBNA cannot locate a copy of the call requesting this, but a letter was sent that same 
day confirming, amongst other things, interest would continue to be charged on the 
remaining balance until it was repaid in full. And the monthly statements Mrs H received 
ongoing showed the interest she was being charged.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She said there is no record Mrs H called 
to close her account in August 2019, nor that she was told interest would no longer be 
charged on the existing balance. After the account was closed in January 2020 the letter that 
was sent made clear interest would be charged until the balance was cleared. So she could 
not find MBNA should refund the interest, nor had it made an error that needed to 
compensate Mrs H for. She explained Mrs H would still have had to pay interest on the 
existing balance even if the account had been closed earlier.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review. She said she did 
not call on 2 January 2020 when the account was closed, and she is unhappy MBNA has not 
provided the call recording from August 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt it is Mrs Hs honest recollection that she rang to close her account in August 
2019. But MBNA can find no record of such a call, and it has been able to provide a letter 
that was sent on 2 January 2020 in response to a request to close the account. 
This opened Thank you for letting us know that you want to close your account and 
confirmed No more increases will be made to your interest rates on any outstanding 
balance. If your standard rates are currently linked to the Bank of England, this will stop, so 
you can repay at your existing rates. Youll need to keep making monthly repayments on any 
balance until its cleared.
Charging interest on existing balances when an account is closed is industry practice, unless 
an account holder is having financial difficulties.  
I think, on balance, this letter was most likely sent as Mrs H had been in touch at that time 
requesting her account be closed. I would have expected her to query it had that not been 
the case. In addition, had Mrs H been told in August 20129 she would no longer be charged 
interest I would have expected her to query why it was on the following months statements. 
But all that said, even if MBNA closed Mrs Hs account late she has not suffered a financial 
loss as closure does not freeze interest as she recalls she was told, and nor had she made 
any transactions between November 2019 and January 2020 that would have attracted the 
new higher interest rate in place from 15 November 2019.
It follows I can find no reason to instruct MBNA to refund the interest charged from 12 
August 2019 to date. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman