DRN-4317805
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced his credit limits. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the latest outcome reached by the 
investigator. I know this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for, so I will explain why Im not 
able to ask Barclays to reinstate or increase his credit limits.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file.
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it, its because Ive
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate
under.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms accounts state that Barclays can change a credit limit at 
any time. These terms were accepted when Mr M took out the card and are standard across 
the banking industry.
A bank wont give any notice when they reduce a credit limit. This is because they dont want 
to risk customers spending credit they may not be able to repay. Mr M said that Barclays 
didnt write to inform him of the decrease but sent a text message instead. We asked 
Barclays about this, as the terms do state that they should write. Barclays responded with 
information to show they wrote to Mr M on 7 and 23 December 2022, and that the letters 
were sent before the text messages. So Im satisfied they followed the correct process in 
letting Mr M know about each decrease.
I understand Mr Ms frustration given the amount his limits have been reduced by. Ive also 
taken into consideration what he has said about his financial circumstances being in such a 
good place over the past 45 years. I also note that the default was applied in error and has 
since been removed. But even so, I can see that Barclays referred the matter to their manual 
underwriting team following the decreases, to see whether they could reinstate each of the 
limits. The underwriting team said they wouldnt be able to reinstate either limit because their 
affordability assessment suggested that an increase was unaffordable at that time. 
Because Barclays acted in line with the conditions of the accounts, and because they then 
asked their underwriting team to manually check to see whether any increase could be 
applied, there isnt anything further I can ask them to do. 
 
Barclays have said that Mr M can apply for an increase on each card six months after the 
date of each decrease. Given the decreases took place in December 2022, this is something 
Mr M can do now if he wishes. It would involve a credit search and would be subject to a 
new application though.
 
Overall, while I do appreciate Mr Ms arguments, and while I can understand his frustrations, 
Im unable to ask Barclays to reinstate, or increase the limits on each of his cards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman