DRN-3495277
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with advice given by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited
(SLoC) to contact out of SERPS (State Earnings Related Pension Scheme) by way of a
personal pension policy.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2022. Ive 
repeated here the background and my provisional findings. 
Mr Hs representative complained to SLoC by letter dated 12 December 2019 about the
advice Mr H had been given. In brief:
Mr H had been advised in 1990 to contract out of SERPS. He was advised that would
give him a larger pension income in retirement. He had little experience or knowledge
of pensions or investments. Hed accepted the advice as being in his best interests.
The adviser was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory
Office) rules. He had to give the investor all relevant information and use best
endeavours to enable the investor to understand any risks involved. And, in advising
as to the suitability of any investment contract, to have regard to the investors
financial position generally and to any rights he may have under an occupational
pension scheme or SERPS. The adviser also had common law duties, including to
act with reasonable care and skill and to disclose all risks and alternatives, as
confirmed in the 2015 Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health
Board.
Mr H shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of a significantly lower retirement
income as a result of contracting out of SERPS. If hed been informed of that risk, he
wouldnt have accepted the advice to contract out. He shouldnt have been exposed
to the risks involved in giving up valuable income guarantees in favour of a pension
linked to the stock market. Or the risks in giving up inflation protected benefits.
All of the contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost managed
fund  the Managed Retirement Fund. It was unsuitable as there was a lack of
diversification and an unnecessary concentration of risk as well as unnecessary
costs. There were ten funds available. Even if contracting out of SERPS was deemed
suitable, Mr Hs contributions shouldve been spread across different funds to reduce
risk.
Mr H hadnt been properly informed of the investment costs and charges.
SLoC issued its final response on 5 March 2020. It didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst
other things, it said the documentation showed that Mr H was 27 at the time and employed,
earning £8,000 pa. Hed been advised to contract out of SERPS using a personal retirement
plan. The documentation hed have been given set out details of the plan, including the
charges and that the value wasnt guaranteed. The contributions purchased units in a
manged fund. The last contribution was received in July 2012. Contributions totalled
£11,810.38. A transfer value of £35,618.60 was paid in October 2016.
SLoC said the product particulars and the terms and conditions Mr H had received explained
the nature of the plan, how units were allocated and valued and the funds available along
with confirmation that Mr H could switch funds at any time. Hed selected the default
Managed Retirement Fund which was classed as a balanced fund. It was shown on the
schedule and on the annual statement hed received. Mr H had been made aware of the
risks and the available funds. The term of the plan was 38 years. The risk wasnt unsuitable
for him.
Whether contracting out was suitable for Mr H had to be assessed based on his situation at
the time  specifically his age and salary. He was 27 at the time and so there was time for
the money he was investing to grow. His salary was above the threshold set by SLoC to
make sure that, after paying the plan charges, contracting out was still worthwhile.
Mr Hs complaint was referred to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. In summary he said:
In assessing if an individual might be better off staying in SERPS what was relevant
was how far away the individual was from their expected retirement age. Providers
set what were called pivotal ages  setting the maximum age for when an individual
might expect to be better off by contracting-out. And salary was relevant too.
Mr H was 27 years old when he was advised to contract out of SERPS. And he was
earning £8,000 pa, which was sufficiently above the lower earnings limit for that year.
This means that he wouldve received a large enough rebate to justify contracting out
of SERPS.
Based on this and the assumptions used in respect of the projected performance, it
was widely expected at the time of the sale that Mr H would be better off in retirement
having contracted out of SERPS. The fact that anticipated higher investment returns
and so better retirement benefits for Mr H hadnt transpired can only be seen with the
benefit of hindsight. There was nothing to suggest hed been given any guarantee
about how his plan would perform.
Mr Hs contributions were invested in the Managed Retirement Fund which was likely
to have contained a range of assets. The Fund was described as one which aims to
achieve maximum capital growth through a broad range of investments. Its portfolio
is diversified across a spread of equity shares (both UK and overseas), property,
fixed interest securities and cash and market opportunities are exploited wherever
they occur by moving money from one investment area to another as conditions
change.
The investigator didnt think the fund was unsuitable because of a lack of
diversification. He thought the fund wouldve been considered low risk and there was
nothing to indicate that Mr Hs circumstances were such that he was unable to accept
that level of risk.
The information provided to Mr H  the product booklet at the time of the sale and
then the terms and conditions following the policy being set up  gave Mr H
information about the costs.
Mr Hs representative said Mr H didnt accept what the investigator had said. The
representative said there was always a significant risk that Mr H could end up substantiallyworse off in retirement as a result of the advice to contract out of SERPS. SLoC had a duty
to make Mr H aware of that risk and hadnt done so. If hed been made aware, he wouldnt
have accepted the advice to contract out of SERPS.
The representative said that the issue of all of Mr Hs contributions being invested in a single
managed fund hadnt been properly addressed. That had subjected him to more risk than
was necessary. If the investigators reasoning was correct then it would be acceptable now
to invest all of a client's personal pension contributions in a single managed fund which
wasnt the case. Even though it may have been more common, in the 1980s and 1990s, that
didnt make it good practice.
The investigator considered what had been said but he wasnt persuaded to change his
view. He recognised Mr Hs disappointment that the returns had been lower than expected.
But he said investment growth assumptions wouldve been considered reasonable at the
time and even if it was now apparent that remaining contracted in wouldve been a better
option. Mr H had the option to select which fund(s) he wanted to invest in and the Managed
Retirement Fund, a balanced fund, didnt pose too much risk for Mr H. The investigator
noted that regulatory requirements and the investment climate had changed over the years.
Whether the advice was suitable had to be judged based on the circumstances at the time
and without the benefit of hindsight.
In reply, Mr Hs representative said it wasnt using hindsight when there was a requirement,
at the time, when advising someone to give up SERPS entitlement that came with valuable
guarantees, to warn them of the risk that the personal pension might not match what they
were giving up and to check they were willing to accept that risk.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first set out some background to contracting-out of SERPS. Until 1988, individuals could
only contract-out of SERPS if they were members of a defined benefit (final salary)
occupational pension scheme. In 1988, the government extended this to defined
contribution (money purchase) occupational schemes and personal pensions. If an individual
contracted out of SERPS using an appropriate personal pension, instead of a proportion of
their National Insurance contributions being used to top up their SERPS entitlement, they
received rebates that were invested in a fund with their pension provider. It was hoped the
fund would outperform the SERPS mechanism for growth, based on the National Earnings
Index.
The government also wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was
provided and to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. The level of
rebate to be applied had to be decided. If the rebates were set too low then the SERPS
pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment in the personal pension. If
set too high, the government would be paying more than it needed to offset the cost of its
SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). The government set rates at a
level so as to encourage contracting-out. The rebate % level was set as standard for all.
That meant it was less beneficial for older people to contract-out, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates. So, for older people,the comparative benefit given up in SERPS would likely outweigh that received by
contracting-out.
The government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for
whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial. But it was clear that age was
the key factor. Pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits
from SERPS (based on the National Earnings Index) against their alternative personal
pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment
returns) to decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed, were
called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out. LAUTRO
didnt determine the pivotal ages. Product providers established their own pivotal ages
based on their own product terms and charges. Some providers also set minimum earnings
levels.
LAUTRO also had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS. It
required its members to present illustrations for customers considering contracting-out in a
specified way. Firms were required to use a premium for illustration purposes of the
minimum rebate payable for that year. And the projections were set at two specified rates 
what LAUTRO termed real rates of return (taking into account the effects of inflation). The
rates of return were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the National Average Earnings Index. The
projections were to include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding
nominal rate of return could be used of 8.5% and 13% inclusive of charges.
LAUTRO also required the annuity illustrated to be on a comparable basis to that the
SERPS pension paid. So the annuity bases had to take into account indexation and would
increase at 3% per annum to mirror the inflation protection offered by SERPS. The annuity
projected would also include a 50% spouses pension, again in line with SERPS.
Turning now to Mr Hs complaint, Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im
considering the complaint on the basis of the circumstances, including the advisers
obligations, at the time.
At the time of the advice, SLoC (or its predecessor Laurentian Life) was a member of
LAUTRO and bound by LAUTROs rules and its code of conduct. While I agree that the
adviser had responsibilities under common law (including not making negligent
misstatements; to disclose all material information; and to advise with reasonable skill and
care), the LAUTRO code encompassed the common law duties and imposed higher
requirements. So, in the main, Ive concentrated on the code. Im not sure that the court case
mentioned is directly relevant, given it was decided many years after the event.
At the time of the advice, the overriding principle was that company representatives were
required to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. The code also
required best advice to be given. That included giving the investor all relevant information
and using best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks
involved. Company representatives, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that
investor of any investment contract, had to have regard, in particular, to the investors
financial position generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension
scheme or SERPS and to use best endeavours to ensure that only those contracts which
were suited to that investor were recommended.The main considerations, in advising someone whether to contract out of SERPS, were age
and earnings. Mr H was well under SLoCs pivotal age and his earnings were well above the
lower earnings limit. It also seems that he didnt have access to an employers pension
scheme. Mr H met the criteria set at the time by SLoC in terms of who opting out of SERPS
was likely to benefit. I dont think SLoCs approach was out of line with the industry
generally. It seemed Mr H would likely be better off by contracting out of SERPS.
But Mr Hs attitude to risk is also relevant. As his representative has pointed out, contracting
out exposed Mr H to the risk of poor investment growth and poor annuity rates which might
result in what he got from the personal pension not matching the SERPS benefits given up.
If its clear that someone didnt want to take any risks, it might have been better to remain in
SERPS to keep what were essentially guaranteed benefits.
Mr Hs representative suggests Mr H wasnt told there was a risk he might end up worse off.
Given that the advice was given such a long time ago, its not possible to say now exactly
what was discussed and what the adviser may have said about the risks and whether Mr H
was warned that the personal pension might not match the benefits he was giving up within
SERPS.
In that sort of situation, where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I reach my
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to
have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive borne in mind what Mr H has said. But Ive also looked at the documentation hed have
been given. Unfortunately no copy of the personalised illustration that shouldve been
provided to Mr H has been produced. But Ive no reason to assume that he wouldnt have
received one. Or that it wasnt prepared in accordance with LAUTROs requirements which
Ive summarised above and the aim of which was to allow Mr H to make a comparison
between what he might get from the personal pension with the SERPS benefits given up.
The illustration wouldve explained that the amounts shown werent necessarily what would
be paid from the personal pension. And that other factors would affect the comparison,
such as bonuses added, the terms applicable at the date of retirement for purchasing an
annuity and future increases in national average earnings. Mr H hasnt said he was given
any guarantee that hed definitely be better off by contracting out. I think hed have known
that there was a risk that he could be worse off, even if the expectation was that hed do
better by contracting out of SERPS.
Mr Hs representative has pointed to the fact that the SERPS benefits had certain
guarantees, such as growth linked to the national average earnings index. But at the time,
contracting out offered rebates which were set advantageously (for someone in Mr Hs
circumstances) and likely rates of return were above SERPS. So it wouldve appeared
there was a good chance that contracting out would provide higher benefits than those that
Mr H would instead have built up in SERPS.
Although there were many variables which could affect both the personal pension and what
SERPS might provide, I think, given the long term to his retirement, Mr H could afford to
take some risk for a potentially higher return which, at the time, it looked like contracting
out would provide. There was some risk involved. But, in my view, it wasnt unreasonable
to view that as not being a significant risk at the time. And, even if there were some
shortcomings in the warnings that the adviser gave, I think Mr H wouldve known enough to
make an informed decision and so I dont think hed have acted differently.
Its unfortunate that actual investment conditions havent been as favourable as wasassumed at the time. And it may be that Mr H wouldve been better off had he not
contracted out of SERPS. But the fact that a loss may have resulted doesnt mean the
complaint should be upheld. Whats important is if the advice was suitable at the time. I
think it was.
Ive also considered whats been said about all of Mr Hs contributions being invested in a
single fund  the Managed Retirement Fund.
Ive seen the booklet that Mr H wouldve been given  the Personal Retirement Plan
Product Particulars. Page 6, under the heading, Where can I invest my contributions?
says that there are ten funds available (for both non protected rights and protected rights
policies) and that further information is available on request. The application form says, if
an alternative fund isnt selected, 100% of the contributions will be invested in the
Managed Retirement Fund. I think Mr H wouldve known from the application form and the
booklet that other funds were available and that if he didnt select a different fund, all of his
contributions would be been invested in the Managed Retirement Fund.
Id agree that diversification is (and always has been) important and is generally regarded
as good investment practice. While losses can still result, diversification reduces risk.
Spreading money across different types of investments and assets classes means, if one
holding performs poorly in the prevailing economic circumstances, others may do better
and so the risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can see the argument that investing in a
single fund may not be prudent. But it will depend on the fund itself.
I note how the Managed Retirement Fund was described at the time. It appears to have
been invested in a spread of assets, including UK and overseas equities, property, fixed
interest securities and cash. And it appears that risk was further spread by the Fund
managers monitoring of the market and adjusting assets to seek to take advantage of any
opportunities brought about by prevailing investment conditions.
I accept that diversification could have been achieved by investing over several of the
available funds. But I think that would have been complicated and was unnecessary when
the Managed Retirement Fund offered diversification, albeit within a single fund. And,
looking at the other investment funds offered, some were somewhat specialised  for
example the Pension Property Fund. Some might have carried a higher degree of risk than
the default Managed Retirement Fund. Others may have been very low risk with limited
prospects for growth. I consider the Managed Retirement Fund was convenient and
sufficiently diverse in itself. And, while I note whats been said about common practice not
necessarily representing good practice, I dont agree that a recommendation today to invest
all contributions in a single managed fund would necessarily be poor advice.
The booklet also set out the applicable charges. These days wed expect to see the charges
more fully explained but I dont think it would be fair to judge things by todays higher 
regulatory standards. The charges were disclosed and if Mr H had been unclear as to how
theyd operate and how much hed be paying he couldve requested further details.
From what Ive seen there was no breach of the LAUTRO code or the advisers common law
duties. I dont think the advice to contract out of SERPS with all the contributions to be
invested in the Managed Retirement Fund was unsuitable.
Neither Mr Hs representative nor SLoC made any further comments in response to my 
provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in full above what I said in my provisional decision about what had happened and 
my provisional findings. All that forms part of this final decision. 
In the absence of any further comments from SLoC or from or on behalf of Mr H, my views 
remain as set out in my provisional decision and recapped above. 
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman