DRN-3552130
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt clearly state that it wouldnt allow 
borrowers to port their mortgages to a property they already owned.
What happened
Miss K took a new mortgage deal with Barclays in January 2020 for approximately £121,000. 
She opted for a fixed rate and says she planned to move house in the next year or so and 
made sure the new mortgage was portable. 
In January 2021 she completed the purchase of a new property, but that was prior to 
completing the sale of her existing property due to delays in finding a buyer. She says she 
managed to get friends and family to provide her with a bridging loan to cover the time 
between purchase and sale. She says she contacted Barclays on 7 May 2021  prior to 
exchange of contracts on the sale of her property  to inform it she wanted to port her 
mortgage. Barclays told her she couldnt port her mortgage because it doesnt allow porting 
to properties already owned by the borrower.
Miss K says shed checked the mortgage offer letter and Barclays website before accepting 
the mortgage in 2020 but saw nothing indicating she wouldnt be able to port it if she already 
owned the property she wanted to port to.
As a result of being unable to port her mortgage, Miss K incurred an early redemption 
charge. She discussed this with Barclays and was told it specifically said a mortgage 
couldnt be ported to properties a borrower already owned in its guidance for intermediaries. 
Miss K says there is no way she could have been expected to be aware of that condition 
because it was only made available to intermediaries  not customers dealing directly with 
Barclays. And had she been aware she would have selected a different mortgage or sought 
to buy and sell simultaneously.
Barclays appears to have addressed the matter with Miss K over the phone. It then wrote to 
her saying the matter had been resolved. Miss K didnt think her complaint had been 
resolved so asked us to consider it.
Barclays says it does not publish lending criteria on its website as its lending criteria is 
confidential. It would only be when the customer asks about porting to an owned property 
that it would come to light that its not possible. It says the wording on the mortgage offer 
makes it clear that porting is subject to its lending criteria and whether shed meet the porting 
rules. But it has no record of Miss K contacting it to discuss lending criteria or whether what 
she wanted to do would meet the porting rules.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. She said Miss K should have contacted 
Barclays to check that her plans met its lending criteria and it wasnt only the fact that Miss K 
already owned the property that may have proved to be a problem. Our investigator thought 
Barclays gave Miss K sufficient information and the onus was on her to discuss her plans 
with Barclays.
Miss K didnt agree. She said the relevant condition is not mentioned on Barclays website 
while other conditions are, such as the requirement to port within 90 days of selling the 
mortgaged property. Miss K says she thinks it should be mentioned on Barclays website 
because of its general nature and importance. And the fact that it is published elsewhere  a 
Barclays website for intermediarys  shows its importance. She also says customers were 
discouraged to call Barclays during the covid pandemic for all but the most urgent queries. 
So, having checked all the information that was available and meeting all other published 
criteria, Miss K proceeded with her plans. She thinks it was reasonable to do so in the 
circumstances.
As Miss K didnt agree with our investigator, her complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Miss K has seen that Barclays doesnt allow customers to port their 
mortgage to a property they already own. And Miss K says she did already own the property 
she wanted to port her Barclays mortgage to. She also says she was aware of the early 
redemption charge which applied to her mortgage during the duration of her fixed rate. So, to 
decide Miss Ks complaint, Ive thought about whether its fair that Barclays didnt explicitly 
state that it doesnt allow porting to a property already owned in its information available to 
customers dealing directly with it.
With regard to porting, Miss Ks mortgage offer says:
You have the possibility to transfer the outstanding balance of this loan to another 
property, subject to the new property and your circumstances meeting our lending 
criteria at that time. A Mortgage Exit fee will be payable and an early repayment 
charge may be payable in respect of the mortgage that is being redeemed. Other 
fees may be charged when porting the mortgage interest rate and the terms and 
conditions for the new mortgage agreement will also apply.
I agree with Miss K that this description of porting doesnt mention porting to a property she 
already owned. And Im satisfied that the other sources of information that were open to her 
as a direct customer didnt advise her of that point. But I think the wording above makes it 
clear that porting is a possibility and that an application to port would be subject to:
The circumstances of the new property meeting Barclays lending criteria;
Miss Ks circumstances meeting Barclays lending criteria.
Barclays lending criteria isnt detailed in the mortgage offer and I dont think a borrower 
reading that would reasonably assume that it was. So, I dont think it would be reasonable 
for a borrower to have read the information quoted above and assume their situation and 
that of their property met all of Barclays lending criteria. I think the fact that the mortgage 
offer refers to lending criteria without outlining what that criteria includes, shows that 
Barclays intended for borrowers to make further enquiries about whether their specific 
circumstances would allow them to port. 
Miss K says its unfair that she would have had access to the information she needed if shed 
used a mortgage intermediary. I understand why she may feel that the same information 
should be available whichever way a borrower deals with Barclays. However, mortgage 
intermediaries carry out some of the same role as Barclays mortgage advisors, in that they are able to give additional information about the finer detail of lending criteria where 
specifically relevant. So, I think its reasonable that Barclays would provide an intermediary 
with more of the detail of what may be acceptable under its lending criteria. And I think, 
ordinarily, to have accessed the information she needed via an intermediary, she would have 
had to contact an intermediary and describe her circumstances and those of the property or 
ask a specific question. That isnt significantly different from what Barclays has said she 
should have done as a direct customer, albeit that she should have contacted Barclays 
rather than an intermediary.
I understand that the covid pandemic made it more difficult to contact businesses such as 
Barclays and that Barclays, like other businesses, may have discouraged its customers from 
making calls. But I dont think that means that Barclays were at fault for the decision Miss K 
made. I say that because the wording Miss K had access to about porting did make it clear 
that any porting application was subject to its lending criteria. And I dont think that wording 
should reasonably have led Miss K to assume her circumstances and those of her property 
would meet Barclays lending criteria. There are lots of reasons individual circumstances may 
not meet the criteria of a lender. But I wouldnt expect a lender to list all those reasons in the 
wording it made publicly available.
In her response to our investigators opinion, Miss K also said she thought the amount of the 
early redemption charge was unfair. She said Barclays would lose £600 in interest if she 
redeemed her mortgage when she did but charged her £2,100. So, she thinks Barclays 
received a windfall of £1,500. 
I understand Miss Ks concerns with the level of the early redemption charge she paid. But 
that charge was clearly explained in her mortgage offer. I accept that Miss K had no intention 
of triggering the early redemption charge when she agreed to her mortgage offer. But in 
agreeing to the terms in the mortgage offer, she accepted that charge would apply if she 
redeemed within the term of the fixed rate. 
When were asked to consider complaints about the amount of an early redemption charge, 
we do think about whether the charge represents a reasonable pre-estimate of costs. To 
explain, lenders are allowed by the regulator to set early redemption charges based on their 
experience of what may happen  how many borrows are likely to redeem early and at what 
point in the early redemption period theyre likely to redeem. Thats because they cant know 
in advance if and when a given borrower may redeem. So, to be transparent a lender will fix 
the cost of early redemption in advance and include it in the mortgage offer letter. The actual 
cost to the lender will be more or less expensive depending on when in the redemption 
period the redemption takes place.
In Miss Ks circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to charge her the 
amount stated in the mortgage offer because she happened to redeem late in the mortgage 
redemption period. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly by not outlining the specific issue of not allowing 
borrowers to port to a property they already own in the information it made publicly available. 
And I think it was reasonable that it charged her the amount it said it would in her mortgage 
offer. So, I dont think Miss Ks complaint should succeed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about Barclays UK PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman