DRN-3963978
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) would not extend the term of the 
cinema tickets for her Club Lloyds account and did not offer her a cash alternative.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she thought that Lloyds didnt need to 
do anything to resolve the complaint. Ms R disagreed and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we deal with complaints about packaged accounts on o ur website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has been 
provided by Ms R and Lloyds, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms R selected to receive cinema vouchers as one of the benefits of her Club Lloyds account. 
Lloyds has explained that Club Lloyds account holders receive 6 cinema vouchers each 
year, and the vouchers come with a 1-year expiry date. Ms R says she did not wish to use 
the cinema tickets as she is pregnant, and she has been advised not to go to crowded 
places as it is too risky. 
I should explain that for me to a sk Lloyds to offer compensation in this instance I would need 
to be satisfied of two things. Firstly, that Lloyds did something wrong and secondly that this 
caused Ms R a financial loss. 
Ms R has argued that she was unable to use the cinema tickets due to her pregnancy. So 
she feels that Lloyds should, as a gesture of goodwill, give her the value of the tickets. But 
ultimately, she chose this benefit and Im unable to hold Lloyds responsible if an account 
holder doesnt go on to use an account benefit that they have chosen. Ultimately Ms R 
asked Lloyds for cinema tickets and these were provided to her. That is all that Lloyds has to 
do.
I should also add that from the statements that I have been provided with, Ms R has not 
actually paid for the Club Lloyds account, as she met the criteria for the fee being waived. So 
from what I can see she has been provided these benefits essentially for free. As such, even 
if I thought that Lloyds was being unreasonable, which I dont think it was, I cant see that Ms 
R had actually suffered a financial loss as a result of her being unable to use the cinema 
vouchers.
Ms R has explained that as she is required to transfer funds into the account each month to 
get the £3 a month fee waived, she is not being provided the cinema tickets for free. She 
says this is because she feels that Lloyds has the benefits of her funds. But I have looked at 
a sample of her bank statements and even if I were persuaded by this argument, and I am 
not as it is her choice as to whether to continue with a Club Lloyds account or remove the 
Club package, the funds that Ms R transfers into her account are shortly transferred out of 
her account. So, I dont think it fair to say that Ms R was deprived of the funds in question. 
Ultimatel y Lloyds did what it was obliged to do which was to supply cinema tickets and waive 
the monthly Club Lloyds fee if the criteria are met. There is no provision in the terms and 
conditions of the account to offe r a different benefit after a benefit is selected (until the 12-
month anniversary) or offer a refund if a benefit is not used. 
I understand that Ms R may feel disappointed by this, especially as Lloyds did offer her a 
gesture of good will the previous year for the cinema tickets. But thi s at Lloydss discretion, 
and I cant reasonably ask it to make another goodwill payme nt when I dont think that 
Lloyd s actually did anything wrong. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman