DRN-3534880
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed all the money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr F has fallen victim to an investment scam. 
Between 30 April 2020 and 22 May 2020, he transferred a total of £4,510 via faster 
payments to his own cryptocurrency exchange account, and then moved his cryptocurrency 
into a new online trading account with a company Ill refer to as R. 
Mr F later discovered that R was operating a scam, and hed lost his money. He reported the 
matter to HSBC.
HSBC refunded 50% of Mr Fs financial loss, but it declined to reimburse the full loss. So, 
Mr F referred a complaint about HSBC to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint and, unhappy with this outcome, Mr F asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
It's common ground that Mr F authorised the faster payments from his HSBC account under 
the Payment Services Regulations. He made genuine payments to his own cryptocurrency 
exchange account using online banking. So, the starting point is that HSBC had an 
obligation to follow Mr Fs payment instructions, and Mr F is presumed liable for his loss in 
the first instance. But thats not the end of the story. There are circumstances in which a 
bank should make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases, 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the possibility of 
financial harm. I consider that HSBC should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Ive looked at Mr Fs account statements in the six months leading up to him falling victim to 
the investment scam, and I dont think the faster payments he made to his own 
cryptocurrency exchange account as part of the scam were so unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to the normal account activity that they ought to have alerted HSBC that he may 
be at risk of financial harm. In fact, I can see that he made payments of a similar nature and 
value on a fairly regular basis. The payments were for relatively modest amounts. And, 
bearing in mind the value and nature of the payments, and that they werent out of character 
in comparison to Mr Fs normal account activity, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in 
processing the payments without making further enquiries. So, I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong here that it should look to put right.
HSBC has already refunded 50% of the money Mr F has lost to this scam, which is more 
than I think it needed to do in the circumstances. So, I wont direct it to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman