DRN-3050822
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
when he needed to make a claim for a fault with his mobile phone.
References to Aviva in this decision include its agents and claim administrators.
What happened
Mr P has a mobile phone insurance policy provided through his bank. Aviva is the insurer. 
Avivas records show that on 8 December 2020 Mr P raised a complaint that he hadnt been 
able to contact it some months previously when hed wanted to raise a claim about his 
phone which was faulty. He said hed tried to phone some 10 times in one day and couldnt 
get through to anyone, so hed just given up. Aviva said it would look into the matter and 
would contact Mr P when it had done so.
On 16 December, Aviva asked Mr P if he now wanted to raise a claim under his policy but he 
said he didnt as he had an open complaint with his bank and he wanted to know what the 
outcome of that was first before he went ahead with a claim.  Mr P said he was not too 
worried about the phone as although the speaker wasnt working correctly, it was still usable.
 
On 18 December Aviva contacted Mr P to ask him if he could provide records of when hed 
tried to call it unsuccessfully. Mr P said he didnt have time to do this due to the nature of his 
work. Aviva said it would look into whether there was any other way it could investigate this 
and that it would call Mr P back.
Aviva concluded it wasnt able to look into the complaint without information from Mr P, and 
tried to phone him later the same day to tell him this. On 21 December it tried again to 
contact Mr P but without success.
Having been unable to contact Mr P, and as it wasnt able to investigate his complaint 
without evidence from him of the calls he said hed made, Aviva said it was unable to uphold 
his complaint. It issued its final response letter on 21 December.
There was then a gap until 13 March 2021 when Mr P contacted Aviva again to say he 
wasnt happy with Avivas response and some of its content. 
On 15 March, Aviva tried to call Mr P but was unable to reach him so a voicemail message 
was left. An email was sent informing him that Aviva had tried to contact him.
Mr P emailed Aviva on 16 March raising a concern about calls failing to reach him and asked 
what phone number it had used. Aviva provided the number it had used. Mr P said that was 
the wrong number and raised a concern that the message left for him had been left on 
someone elses phone and therefore there was a data protection breach. He wanted to raise 
a complaint about this.
Aviva listened to the voicemail message that had been left on 15 March. It didnt contain any 
personal information but gave a number on which Mr P could call back.
Mr Ps continued to express dissatisfaction with Avivas handing of his concerns, only one of 
which was that his original complaint about being unable to make a claim about his faulty 
phone had not been addressed properly. Other concerns had taken priority. 
Mr P raised a complaint with Aviva on 13 April 2021. He complained that:
 He was unhappy about the final response to the complaint he raised in December 2020
 He was unhappy about the service that he received.
 He was unhappy that Aviva had attempted to contact him on a number that did not belong 
to him.
 He was worried that there may have been a breach of his personal data.
Aviva responded at length on 30 April 2021. In so far as its response referred to Mr Ps 
concern that his phone was still faulty and this had never been addressed properly, Aviva 
referred to the fact that Mr Ps original complaint about his attempted claim had been closed 
on 21 December 2020 as hed been unable to provide the information hed been asked to 
provide to support his complaint. Avivas response was not to uphold Mr Ps complaints.
Mr P was dissatisfied with Avivas response to his various complaints, so he brought them to 
this service. He wants Aviva to provide further information in relation to his allegation of a 
data breach, and he wants Aviva to administer his policy in line with its obligations and to 
provide him with a brand new phone. He also wants compensation including for stress and 
anxiety.
Our investigators view was that a number of matters raised by Mr P were not ones that were 
within the jurisdiction of this service to resolve, and he referred Mr P to the relevant DISP 
rules. He also said he hadnt seen any evidence which suggests that Aviva had handled Mr 
Ps claim unfairly.
Our investigator advised Mr P on 16 September 2021 that if he wanted Aviva to deal with a 
claim under his policy for the repair of his phone he should raise this with it directly or, if he 
preferred, our investigator could let Aviva know that he wanted someone to contact him so 
he could raise a claim. Mr Ps response to this was that Aviva had offered to log a claim in 
December 2020 but at that time hed said that he didnt want to claim on his policy until a 
complaint he had with his bank was sorted. Since then hed asked Aviva on multiple 
occasions to address the repair of his phone under his policy but Aviva hadnt responded.
Mr P has recently purchased a new phone.
As Mr P doesnt agree with our investigators view, his complaints have now been referred to 
me to make a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaints and Ill explain why.
Our investigator was quite correct in referring to the DISP rules and the jurisdiction of this 
service. Both the DIPS Rules and the courts [R(Mazarona Properties Ltd. V Financial 
Ombudsman Service (2017) EWHC 1135 (Admin)] limit this services jurisdiction to the 
handling of complaints about financial services or any ancillary activity carried on by a business in connection with the provision of financial services. A complaint about complaint 
handling is not a complaint about a financial service, and so falls outside our jurisdiction.
In this case I consider that I can only decide on one aspect of the various concerns that Mr P 
has raised. That is in relation to whether Aviva has acted fairly in its handling of his original 
complaint about his inability to make a claim for a faulty mobile phone, and whether Aviva 
has subsequently addressed the repair of his faulty phone under the terms of his insurance 
policy. As such complaints relate to obligations under an insurance policy and therefore to the 
provision of a financial service, they are complaints that do fall within the jurisdiction of this 
service.  I cant deal with the complaints Mr P has raised about issues arising from the 
complaint that he made in April 2021. 
When Mr P raised a complaint with Aviva on 8 December 2020, it was that despite phoning it 
many times some months previously to make a claim under his policy, hed been unable to 
contact it.  Aviva then said that it would need information from him to enable it to investigate 
why his attempts to make a claim had been unsuccessful. When Mr P didnt provide this 
information, Aviva closed his case.
In my opinion, if Mr P is alleging that Avivas service has been unsatisfactory, he needs to 
provide some evidence of why he says this. In this situation, such evidence could have been 
provided by producing records of calls made from his phone which would show the number 
he was calling and when. Mr P was unable to provide this information. I appreciate the 
difficulty Mr P had in providing this information given his work commitments, but it was 
necessary information that only he could provide.
In these circumstances, Aviva couldnt investigate why these calls werent answered. Aviva 
looked into whether it could do without this information, and when it realised that it couldnt it 
tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr P. I dont think it could have done more, and Mr P didnt 
follow up the matter for a further three months.
So, in relation to Avivas handling of the complaint Mr P raised in December, my conclusion 
is that I cant make a finding that Aviva has done something wrong on the strength of a 
complaint that isnt supported by any evidence or one which Aviva hasnt had the opportunity 
to investigate because of the lack of information from Mr P.
Mr P subsequently raised a number of complaints against Aviva which Ive referred to above. 
Amongst these various complaints, which Aviva has addressed at length in its response of 
30 April 2021, is a complaint about the fact that his phone was still faulty. This appears to 
have been somewhat overlooked and isnt addressed.
However Ive seen no information to suggest that Mr P has ever submitted a formal claim to 
Aviva for his faulty phone. He declined to do so in December 2020, and in September 2021 
when our investigator suggested that he do so, and offered to help him contact Aviva about 
this, Mr Ps response was that hed told Aviva on multiple occasions that his phone was still 
faulty but Aviva had done nothing about it.
Aviva has said that it has never prevented Mr P from making a claim under his policy. He 
could have done so at any time. Although he told Aviva on a number of occasions that his 
phone was still faulty, he never made a claim or attempted to do so other than in the calls he 
said he made in or around September 2020 for which he couldnt provide any evidence. 
Despite our investigators suggestion to Mr P that he submit a claim and have his phone 
repaired or replaced by Aviva, (which would be subject to the terms and conditions of his 
policy), and his offer to help him with this, Mr P didnt do so and has since purchased a new 
phone. 
 It would therefore be unreasonable for me to find that Aviva has done something wrong and 
should provide some redress to Mr P when he didnt take advantage of the opportunity to 
have his phone repaired or replaced by Aviva, choosing instead to buy a new one.
My decision is that I agree with the view of our investigator that Aviva has not acted unfairly 
towards Mr P in connection with a claim under his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman