DRN-2085670
The complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc gave her unsuitable mortgage advice.
What happened
In May 2017 Ms D applied for a mortgage with Barclays. Ms D has said that, at the time of 
speaking to the mortgage adviser, she informed them that she intended to let her property 
long term within a couple of years, when she bought a separate home with her partner. She 
says she was told shed be able to ask for permission to let and keep the residential 
mortgage in place. Then when the interest rate deal she chose expired, she could apply for a 
buy-to-let mortgage.
Barclays recommended a repayment mortgage with a five-year fixed rate of interest, 
meaning that if the mortgage was repaid within that five-year term, Ms D would have to pay 
an early repayment charge (ERC).
In early 2020 Ms D asked Barclays for permission to let her property. This was declined 
because Barclays said she didnt meet its criteria for allowing this  as she didnt intend to 
move back into the property at a later stage and now intended for the property to operate as 
an investment.
Ms D complained to Barclays. She said that shed been clear about her situation from the 
outset. So she felt, given what she had now been told about permission to let, that the 
advice given to her in 2017 was unsuitable as she was now in the position of having to apply 
for a buy-to-let mortgage and pay a substantial ERC.
Barclays said it hadnt made an error in declining the application for permission to let. And it 
said it didnt think the advice given in 2017 was incorrect as none of the information recorded 
in the application or mortgage offer indicated that the prospect of the property being let was 
discussed.
Ms D asked our service to look into her complaint. One of our investigators considered 
matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that, while he had no reason 
to doubt what Ms D had said, as there was nothing to support what had been discussed, and 
the reasons for the recommendation that were available made no mention of an intention to 
let, he didnt think he could reasonably say Barclays gave unsuitable advice.  
Ms D said she didnt think it was surprising the discussion shed had with Barclays hadnt 
been noted as, if it had been, this wouldve shown Barclays mis-sold her mortgage. So, she 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman as she didnt think the 
investigators findings were fair. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue central to this complaint is the discussion between Ms D and the mortgage adviser 
in May 2017. Ms D has said she told the adviser at that time it was her intention to move out 
of the mortgaged property and let it out, and that this would likely be within five years. And 
she says that permission to let was discussed as a potential solution. Barclays has 
indicated it doesnt think this was discussed as there is no record of this potential need, 
when it came to the recommended mortgage. It has also said that the adviser had a 
significant number of years of experience and so it thinks this wouldve been recorded if 
discussed.
I cant say for certain what was discussed. And in situations like these, where it is unclear 
and there are conflicting versions of events, I have to decide what I think is most likely on the 
balance of probabilities.
Ive seen copies of Barclays permission-to-let policy from 2017. This confirms that one of 
the conditions of Barclays granting permission to let would be the mortgage holder 
confirming that they intended to re-occupy the property. This is something which Ms D says 
was never her intention and that she made Barclays aware of. So, it doesnt appear that this 
was an option available to Ms D.
Barclays has provided a copy of the details entered onto its system as part of the 
application. This included what the mortgage adviser recorded as the reasons for the 
recommendation. The reason for the amount recommended is noted as being to provide 
some additional funds for home improvements, as requested by Ms D. The application 
summary notes that the reason for the five-year fixed term was to provide stability. It says 
that Ms D, who was self-employed, wanted this due to her intention to change her business 
model somewhat and that she felt a five-year term was appropriate. It also says Ms D 
wanted the lowest achievable interest rate and for the product fee associated to be added to 
the mortgage as she didnt want to pay this upfront. Ms D hasnt suggested that any of these 
details or reasons were incorrect. And although the version Ive seen was not signed by 
Ms D, there is an indication that a declaration was completed acknowledging that shed had 
the opportunity to review this information. And on balance I think it likely was made available 
to her.
So at this point then, Im satisfied Barclays has recorded relevant information to the 
recommendation about Ms Ds mortgage on its system. But the application summary does 
not make any mention of Ms D intending to let out her property or a discussion around 
related options. And I think this is an important piece of information that would normally have 
been noted and addressed.
In my opinion there are two possible reasons the discussion around letting out the property 
hasnt been recorded. One of them is that the adviser, having recorded a detailed summary 
of all other reasons for the recommendations (which was available to Ms D, that she hasnt 
disputed, and which seem accurate based on the information I have), omitted this one. And 
then went on to provide incorrect information about Barclays permission to let policy  
details of which again wouldve been available to Ms D. The other would be that letting the 
property wasnt discussed, or at least not in detail, because it wasnt a key consideration for 
Ms D at the time.Ive thought carefully about everything both parties have provided. Having done so, while Im 
sorry to disappoint Ms D, on balance, I think it is more likely that vacating and letting the 
property was not discussed in significant detail  or at least not to the extent that she now 
recalls. I say this because I dont see that the alternative, which couldve been challenged on 
information easily available to Ms D at any stage, benefitted Barclays or the mortgage 
adviser. 
With that in mind, I dont think I can reasonably say that Barclays provided incorrect or 
misleading information at the point of application or that the advice given, based on the other 
requirements detailed, was unsuitable. And I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly, more 
recently, in declining the request for permission to let to be considered as Ms Ds application 
doesnt meet its lending criteria.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman