DRN-2767235
The complaint
Mr H went into branch to request a payment holiday on his TSB loan. He complains that the 
branch manager interrogated him and left him feeling humiliated due to her line of 
questioning. 
What happened
In early 2021, Mr H went into a TSB branch to ask about having a payment holiday on his 
loan. He says that he didnt need the holiday for any particular reason, but felt that he was 
entitled to one. 
He was asked to see the branch manager but says he was only asked one question about 
the payment holiday. The rest of the questions were about his financial history, including 
previous payments hed made to a friend and the amount he receives from his pensions.
Mr H feels that the questions he asked were intrusive and the branch manager could have 
just looked at his previous statements to get the information. He feels that he was unfairly 
grilled about his finances when he just wanted to ask a simple question about a payment 
holiday. 
Mr H was so upset about how the meeting went, he walked out of the branch. He later found 
out that he wasnt eligible for a payment holiday as hed already taken two in the previous 
12-month period. He feels he could have been told this to begin with, as this would have 
avoided all the distressing questions.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt agree with Mr H. He said he thought TSB 
had Mr Hs best interests at heart when asking him about his account history. And he felt it 
was likely that they would have told him he wasnt eligible for another holiday during the 
meeting, if it had come to its natural conclusion.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB have said that they usually offer a maximum of two one-month payment holidays within 
a rolling 12-month period on their loans. However, due to the impact of COVID 19, theyve 
been able to offer longer payment holidays on a discretionary basis when their customer is in 
financial hardship.
Mr H had already taken two payment holidays in the previous 12 months. So, as he was 
requesting another one, I think it was reasonable for TSB to ask questions about his 
finances. This includes questions about money coming in, which would help to establish 
whether he was in financial hardship and eligible for another holiday.
I also think regular large payments out of an account are relevant when looking at a 
customers income and expenditure. And it was reasonable for TSB to try and establish the 
nature of these payments, to decide whether they were regular outgoings that would 
continue in the future. 
When Mr H told them that he was regularly transferring large amounts to his friend, it raised 
flags with TSB. This is something that could indicate a vulnerable customer who is being 
taken advantage of. So I think it was reasonable for TSB to try and make sure this wasnt the 
case.
I can understand that Mr H may have found the questions TSB asked him intrusive. 
Especially as they related to payments he regularly made from his account. But hed 
requested a third payment holiday in a 12-month period, so they wanted to establish why he 
needed this. And they had a duty to him, as a customer, to make sure he wasnt being put 
under any pressure to make the payments, which could have been the reason for any 
financial difficulties. So I think TSB were acting in his best interests.
Mr H has told us that his friend always pays him back and TSB could have found this 
information by looking at his account statements. I accept this would have shown a history of 
the payments between himself and his friend. But sometimes statements dont tell the whole 
story and I think it was reasonable for TSB to ask for his version of events while they were 
speaking to him.
Mr H has said that hes since made further payments to his friend, and TSB havent asked 
him about these. He says this shows that TSB arent concerned about him as a customer. 
But I cant comment on new events that have happened since the complaint was made.
Based on this, I think the actions TSB took were reasonable and Im not going to ask them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman