DRN-2621148
The complaint
Miss O complains that a car she bought with the help of a fixed term loan agreement from 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2019 Miss O bought a car with the help of a loan provided by Hitachi. The car was
four and a half years old with an odometer reading of around 93,000 miles. The cash price
was £4,799, but Miss O also borrowed money to repay her existing car finance, so the loan
was a little over £6,700 in total.
Shortly after she took delivery of the car, Miss O noticed a warning light on the dashboard.
She returned the car to the dealership and the fault was corrected.
By October 2019, however, Miss O says she noticed that the car was losing power. The
dealership would not help as, it said, the car was by this point outside its three-month
warranty period. Miss O took the car to a different garage; it initially thought it had repaired
the fault, but it reoccurred. Two further garages were unable to locate the fault.
Miss O complained to Hitachi and an inspection of the car was arranged and took place on
20 December 2019. That inspection indicated that there had been an unsatisfactory repair
carried out to the cars accelerator switch. It recommended a regeneration of the cars diesel
particulate filter (DPF), which it described as routine maintenance. The engineers report
also commented that the car was in a good overall condition for its age and mileage and
would have been of satisfactory quality at delivery. It described the work needed on the DPF
as routine maintenance.
A further inspection was carried out by a different engineer from a different firm on 5 
February 2020. That inspection noted that a tyre warning light was on, but also that the tyre 
pressures were below the required level. The mileage was more than 9,000 higher than it 
had been in May 2019. The engineers report indicated a problem with the cars turbo but
concluded that its condition was what was to be expected of a used vehicle.
I understand that Miss O has since had the car repaired, but considers that Hitachi should
meet the costs of repairs that she has financed and compensate her for the time that she
has been without a car.
Our investigator considered Miss Os complaint and broadly agreed with her. He
recommended that Hitachi meet the costs of repairs, with interest, refund two monthly loan
payments and pay Miss O a further £200 in recognition of the trouble she had been put to.
Hitachi Finance didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings below:
Miss Os contract with the dealership was financed under arrangements between the
dealership and Hitachi. The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is therefore
that if Miss O has a claim for breach of contract against the dealership, she has a like claim
against Hitachi.
The sale contract between Miss O and the dealership was to be read as including a term
that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That term means of the quality a reasonable
person would expect in the circumstances. In considering that issue I believe I must take into
account the cars age, price and mileage, amongst other things.
I appreciate of course that Miss O has experienced a number of issues with the car  some
minor, some apparently more significant. I also appreciate that a number of garages and
engineers have tried to identify the exact nature of the problems shes experienced and have
not always been able to do so.
However, there were two independent reports prepared, both of which reached the
conclusion that the problems that Miss O had experienced  and in particular the loss of
power  were consistent with the cars age and mileage. In the circumstances, I dont believe
that I can fairly conclude that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of delivery to
Miss O. I accept that there were faults with the car, as did the engineers. But the issue here
is not whether there were faults, but whether they meant that the car was not of satisfactory
quality  that is, the quality to be expected of a five-year-old car which had travelled 100,000
miles.
I also acknowledge that there were a number of difficulties in identifying exactly what the
fault was. The investigator thought that the engineers instructed by Hitachi ought to have
identified the fault earlier. I can see the argument here, but Hitachis responsibility as far as
the quality of the car is concerned arises from section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It
doesnt in my view extend to diagnosing problems, even if in some cases it might be
responsible for putting them right  for example, by paying for repairs. It certainly doesnt go
as far as diagnosing problems which fall short of meaning the car was not of satisfactory
quality.
It is in my view important to note as well that Miss O took the car to several other garages
herself, each of which was unable to identify the problem with the car. So, even if I agreed
with the investigator that Hitachi had some obligation to diagnose a problem with a car it had
financed, I dont believe it would be fair to conclude in this case that it should have identified
the problem.
I invited both Hitachi and Miss O to provide me with any further evidence and arguments 
they wanted me to consider. Miss Os representative noted that two specialist technicians 
had failed to identify problem a normal garage had rectified. The problems had been 
reported within six months, and two separate reports had identified issues with the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional decision. I 
accept that there were problems with the car and that they came to light quite soon after 
Miss O took delivery of it. I can see why she feels that Hitachi and the dealership should take 
some responsibility, and I accept that she has suffered as a result  both financially and 
through stress and inconvenience. 
However, the issue I have to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, the car was of 
satisfactory quality. It was not perfect by any means but, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, the issues which led to this complaint were not matters which meant it 
was not of satisfactory quality. Two independent reports concluded that the problems Mrs O 
experienced were consistent with the cars age and mileage, and I accept that they were. 
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I dont require Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc to do anything more to resolve Miss Os complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman