DRN-3471174
The complaint
Ms T complains HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) unfairly added a 
lasting power of attorney to her joint account, without informing her.
What happened
Ms T holds two joint current accounts with another person, who has not been involved in 
bringing this complaint. 
The joint account holder had a lasting power of attorney (LPA) set up in 2021, which first 
direct added to the account. Ms T complained about this. She had concerns about the 
validity of the LPA, and she complained that it allowed the attorney (the appointed 
person) to view her statements and banking information. She thought this was a breach 
of her data. Due to the dispute first direct froze the accounts, so Ms T complained she 
could no longer access her funds.
Our investigator said there were only certain aspects of the complaint that he could look 
at, given Ms T had brought it without the joint account holders consent. And he said he 
couldnt look at the validity of the LPA. He looked at whether first direct had treated Ms T 
fairly in applying the LPA to the account, which he was satisfied it had.
Ms T asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, Im limited to what I can review as part of this decision. This service 
has no power to review LPAs, or the actions of the attorney. And because the other 
party on the account hasnt consented to us investigating, I am limited in my 
investigation as to what I can review. So I too have considered whether first direct 
treated Ms T fairly when it applied the LPA to her joint accounts. 
Ms T says first direct should have informed her when the LPA was added to the account. 
It has said it didnt need to, as the account holder still had mental capacity when the LPA 
was added, it would be up to them to inform Ms T. As far as Im aware there are no 
regulations to say first direct needed to inform Ms T of an LPA being added to the 
account, and Im not persuaded it acted unfairly in not notifying her.
From what I can see, first direct tried to notify Ms T when it froze the account, over a 
dispute as to the funds. This is what Id expect it to do. 
I understand the account was frozen in September 2021 as the joint account holders 
couldnt agree on how the account should be managed. I think this was reasonable for 
first direct to do to protect the interest of all parties, so Im not going to interfere with its 
decision. 
I understand Ms T is unhappy that the LPA has meant her banking information has been 
shared with third parties, but Im satisfied first direct hasnt acted unfairly. If any account 
holder (including the attorney) passes on information to a third party, I cant hold first 
direct responsible for that.
I realise Ms T is deeply concerned about the joint account holder, but Im unable to 
consider this. Ms T has said the office of the public guardian (OPG) has said the LPA 
should only come into effect when the account holder in question no longer has mental 
capacity. She hasnt provided first direct or this service with anything from the OPG to 
confirm this. So Im not persuaded based on what Ms T has sent that first direct has set 
the LPA up incorrectly.
I realise there is still a dispute over the account and the funds, but as it appears to be a 
dispute between Ms T and the attorney, that is not for this service to consider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman