DRN-2042502
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc transferred £48,000 back from his current account to 
his mortgage account without his permission.
What happened
Mr H had a joint Santander flexible mortgage with his partner, Miss H.
 
As this complaint has just been brought to us by Mr H I cant provide any information about 
Miss H and her contact with Santander, other than that which Mr H already knows. Thats 
because I dont have her authority to do so.
On 7 August 2019 Mr H called Santander. He said that he and Miss H had split up, to which 
the Santander call handler confirmed it was already aware. Mr H was surprised about that as 
it was his first call, but he and the call handler surmised that Miss H had possibly already 
notified Santander. 
Mr H said he wanted to raise £10,000 against his mortgage. The Santander call handler 
confirmed that it would theoretically not be an issue as there was £36,000 available in the 
linked savings pot due to mortgage overpayments that had been made. But said as Mr H 
and Miss H had split up then theyd both need to go to a branch  with ID  to make any 
draw downs. Mr H said he had no problem with that, and the call ended.
On 8 August Mr H went online and transferred £48,000 from the mortgage account to his 
sole-named current account that was also with Santander. As the account block hadnt been 
added correctly the transaction went through, when it shouldnt have.
On 6 September Miss H contacted Santander to say she hadnt agreed to the £48,000 
transfer. Santander looked into things and found the money was still in Mr Hs bank account.
On 10 September Santander transferred the money back to the mortgage account. It tried to 
call Mr H to let him know, but the call went unanswered. As it was unable to speak to him a 
letter was sent.
Mr H said he found the money missing when he went to an ATM to withdraw some money, 
and for two days was left worrying that his account had been compromised. He says that he 
spent those two days checking with the fraud department until he realised the money had 
been transferred back to the mortgage. Mr H says this caused the amicable agreement with 
Miss H to break down as he couldnt send her the money, which is what hed drawn it down 
for.
Santander didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint as it said Mr H knew he shouldnt 
have drawn the money down and it had the right to remove it from his bank account as the 
funds were only there due to an error. However it did say it made a mistake in putting Mr H 
in the position that he was able to draw down the funds due to it not blocking him correctly 
from doing so. For that it paid him £100.
Mr H told our investigator he wanted £5,000 compensation. Our investigator looked at the 
complaint and having done so said Santanders response to the complaint was fair. Mr H 
didnt agree, saying
I can confirm that I am disappointed that you believe the bank acted in a proper manner. I 
do not accept that anyone (the bank) is allowed to take money out of my account without at 
least contacting me first. The anxiety I suffered for 2 / 3 days after my findings was 
unbelievable. So no I do not accept you findings. I find it quite insulting that the bank think 
£100 pounds is acceptable after conceding they were wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr H has misunderstood why Santander has paid him £100 compensation. Its not 
because it conceded it was wrong, it was just because it said it should have done more to 
stop Mr H drawing down the £48,000. All Santander did wrong was to not put the block on 
correctly to stop Mr H doing that.
Mr H was clearly and unequivocally told on 7 August that he couldnt draw down any money 
unless he and Miss H went into a branch  with ID  to both give their permission for that. 
Mr H confirmed his understanding of that. So, its unclear why Mr H decided to ignore that 
and make the draw down the following day. The moment he did so, though, Santander had 
the right to claw the funds back as the terms and conditions of his bank account say:
If we have incorrectly credited any payment to your account, we will take the money back 
out of your account. We do not need your permission to do so.
There can be no other description of this transfer other than a payment incorrectly credited 
to Mr Hs account, as had the block been put onto the mortgage account correctly then the 
transfer couldnt have taken place. Therefore, the subsequent transfer was incorrectly 
credited.
Mr H said I do not accept that anyone (the bank) is allowed to take money out of my 
account without at least contacting me first. Unfortunately, what Mr H is criticising 
Santander for is exactly what hed done which started this sequence of events; he took 
money out of his and Miss Hs (joint mortgage) account without contacting her (and getting 
her to provide her written permission in branch) first. In addition, Santander did try to contact 
Mr H by phone on the day it undertook the transfer back, but unfortunately the call wasnt 
answered which led to Santander sending the notification by post.
Its not clear what calls Mr H made in the two days he says he was left worrying. I would 
have thought his local branch, or the call centre, would have been able to immediately tell 
him that the £48,000 transfer out was to his Santander mortgage as the screen print of the 
transactions we have on file shows the transaction as TRANSFER TO [Mr Hs mortgage 
account number]. 
It doesnt seem the transfer back of these funds caused the split to become acrimonious as 
Mr H has said. I say this because on the call of 12 September it was said that Miss H had 
notified Santander that the draw down wasnt authorised which is why it was returned to the 
mortgage account, and Mr H said he didnt know what Miss H had said about it because its 
not amicable now actually. Its clear from this that it wasnt the return of the funds (leading to 
Mr H not being able to then transfer them to Miss H) that caused the acrimony.Having considered everything, Im satisfied:
Santander didnt act inappropriate in removing the funds from Mr Hs bank account as 
hed already been told he couldnt undertake a draw down without Miss Hs permission, 
therefore it met the threshold to be considered an incorrect credit.
Santander tried to notify Mr H by phone when the transfer back was undertaken but was 
unable to reach him, so it sent a letter.
The only error Santander made was not putting the block on the account correctly to 
stop Mr H drawing down the funds that hed already been told he couldnt touch without 
Miss Hs permission. And for that Im satisfied Santanders payment of £100 is more 
than fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman