DRN-3952370
The complaint
Mr G and Miss G are unhappy that a car supplied to them under a hire purchase agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr G and Miss G were supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS. They paid a deposit of £5,000 and the agreement was for £20,799 
with 36 monthly repayments of £337.52 and a final optional payment of £13,625. At the time 
the car was just over one year old and had done 8,706 miles.
Mr G and Miss G complained to MBFS that they needed to keep visiting the supplying 
dealership  three times in the first ten months  to have the oil topped up. And they didnt 
think this was normal. 
MBFS didnt uphold the complaint, as they said the dealership hadnt been able to find any 
fault with the car. Mr G and Miss G werent happy with this response, and they brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said he thought the level of oil consumption was higher than would 
reasonably be expected. And, even though MBFS were unable to find a fault with the car, he 
thought the excessive oil consumption with a car of this age and mileage meant that a fault 
was likely to be present. 
Whats more, because Mr G and Miss G had been suffering from the excessive oil 
consumption since they took possession of the car, the investigator thought that the car 
wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied. And, because MBFS had been given 
the opportunity to fix the car, and hadnt been able to do so, he said that Mr G and Miss G 
should now be able to reject the car.
The investigator said that, because Mr G and Miss G had had use of the car, they should 
pay for this usage. So, he thought MBFS should be able to keep the payments theyd made. 
But he said that MBFS should refund the deposit plus statutory interest; and pay Mr G and 
Miss G an additional £150 for the ongoing inconvenience of them having to regularly top up 
the oil on the car.
Mr G and Miss G accepted the investigators recommendations and commented that theyd 
had to take the car back to the dealership for an oil top-up on three more occasions while the 
complaint had been ongoing. However, MBFS said they would like an ombudsman to make 
a final decision. As such, this matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr G and Miss G were supplied with a car 
under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which 
means were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, MBFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MBFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr G and Miss G to show it was present 
when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr G and Miss G took possession of it, and this 
made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MBFS to put this 
right.
Having reviewed all the evidence, I can see its not disputed that the car was returned to the 
dealership on multiple occasions because it was (and still is) using an excessive amount of 
oil. But the dealership couldnt find any fault. Nor have they or MBFS been able to provide 
any explanation for the excessive oil consumption.
When Mr G and Miss G took possession of the car, it was just over a year old and had done 
8,706 miles. As this was a used car, I wouldnt expect the same quality as in a brand-new 
car. And, Id expect some wear and tear to be present. But I think any reasonable person 
would expect the car to be free from any significant undisclosed mechanical issues. And I 
must also consider the price Mr G and Miss G paid for the car - almost £26,000. The more 
expensive the car, the fewer minor issues Id expect to be present.
I think that the car using an excessive amount of oil, to the point where in needs to be 
significantly topped up every few months, is a significant mechanical issue, and one which 
any reasonable person wouldnt expect to be present in a car with such a low age and 
mileage. As such, Im satisfied theres a fault with the car. And, given when Mr G and Miss G 
first started needing to top-up the oil, Im also satisfied that this fault was likely present when 
the car was supplied to Mr G and Miss G. Which makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied.
Where theres a fault that makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows for one 
chance of repair. As the car has been returned to the dealership on multiple occasions, and 
theyve been unable to identify why the car is using so much oil, Im satisfied that this one 
chance at repair has taken place. And the fault with the car remains. As such, Im satisfied 
that in these circumstances Mr G and Miss G should be allowed to reject the car.Putting things right
Although the car has been using excessive oil, Mr G and Miss G have been able to continue 
to use it. As such, I think its reasonable that they pay for this usage. And I wont be asking 
MBFS to refund any of the payments theyve made. However, this doesnt mean that Mr G 
and Miss G havent been inconvenienced by whats happened.
Mr G and Miss G have had to make multiple journeys back to the dealership, for the oil to be 
topped up and the car to be investigated for the reason for this. And theyve explained how 
frustrating this has been. The investigator has recommended a payment of £150 to 
recognise this. Which I think is fair, and in line with what I would direct in similar 
circumstances. So, in the absence of any additional evidence, I intend to adopt this as part 
of my decision.
So, MBFS should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr G and Miss G;
refund the £5,000 deposit Mr G and Miss G paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr G and 
Miss G made the payment to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr G and Miss Gs 
credit files; and
pay Mr G and Miss G an additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience theyve 
suffered as a result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires MBFS to take off tax from this interest. MBFS must give 
Mr G and Miss G a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr G and Miss Gs complaint and Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman