DRN-2213456
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited changed his flexible 
lifetime annuity (FLA) from self-managed to a guaranteed income stream and said it wasnt 
paying him the correct amount of pension.
What happened
Mr W said he had a self-managed FLA. He had objected to the conversion to a Guaranteed 
Income Stream (GIS). He eventually said he would accept a conversion provided that his 
pension payments were not lower than the values quoted to him. He queried the amount of 
pension he was being paid compared to the quotes provided and the value of the underlying 
assets that were in his FLA. 
The Prudential said Mr W had chosen an FLA which automatically converted from the FLA 
on the plan anniversary following his 89th birthday. The conversion was mandatory. 
Following the conversion, he was entitled to a fixed income so the value of the underlying 
investments held prior to the conversion were no longer relevant as they had now been 
replaced by a guaranteed income from an annuity. 
The investigator said hed considered the policy terms and was satisfied the Prudential had 
acted in accordance with them and wouldnt be asking them to take any further action. He 
said the terms shouldve been explained to him by the financial adviser that advised him to 
take out the policy. It shouldve warned him that he couldnt remain invested in the FLA after 
his 90th birthday when the policy would convert to provide a guaranteed income.
Mr W said he accepted the adjudicators findings about the conversion of the FLA to fixed 
annuity income. However he questioned: -
1. timing -he said that under the FLA scheme a pension payment was due on 2 January 
2020 of around £70,000. He quoted a fund value and a figure for the ratio of income to 
fund value quoted in the Prudential letter sent to him in January 2019. 
2. the value of the funds relative to the fixed annual pension in the fixed guaranteed income 
(FGI ). Since 2 June 2019 none of the quotations issued to him had taken into account 
the value of individual funds so he couldnt check the value of the total fund on the date it 
was converted to the Fived Guaranteed Income (FGI) in August 2019. 
3. He produced his own figures to show why he had rejected the quotations provided by the 
Prudential. He also said the quotations provided didnt include the amount of around 
£70,000 due in January 2020. Based on published fund prices he estimated the fund 
value shouldve increased between June and August 2019.
4. He also said a further amount was due from with profits. He wanted to know the actual 
value of each fund and with profits fund at the date of conversion so that this could be 
compared with the valuation and his conclusions and the resulting pension payable.
Mr W later said he was concerned the switch was a cost cutting exercise. He said the value 
of the funds wouldve increased up to the date of conversion and yet the pension illustrated 
falls by 16.5%, where as he estimated a gain in fund value of around 6.5%. He therefore felt 
the change had reduced costs considerably.
Mr W also referred to a letter from the Prudential dated 23 January 2019 which he took to 
show they accepted his objection to the conversion, and this had been accepted before the 
Trigger Date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons below I am not upholding this complaint. There are several issues to 
consider.
Conversion from the FLA
The Prudential said the FLA had been due to be converted on the anniversary of Mr Ws 
policy after his 89th birthday. That was in early 2019. However Mr W had asked for the 
conversion to be delayed to his 90th birthday and it agreed to allow the deferral to take place 
so that it would happen in August 2019. 
I have considered the provisions of the Members booklet. In particular the section on 
conversion. Mr W refers to the relevant parts which in summary says
3.4 Mandatory conversion to a guaranteed income stream (by reason of age)
If your FLA has not been converted to a Fixed Guaranteed Income in accordance with 
section 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 above by your 90th birthday (the Trigger Date) then the following 
provisions shall apply.
We will at the Trigger Date unless you notify us to the contrary before the Trigger Date in 
accordance with the options notified to you:
(1)Cancel all of those units credited to your FLA which are invested in the Unit Linked 
Funds and apply the amount raised to provide you with a Fixed Guarantee Income in 
accordance with, and subject to the restrictions in, Section 4, 
Section 4 sets out how the FLA is converted it says You will have the option when 
converting to a Fixed Guarantee Income to choose a level or increasing pension.
Mr W says these provisions should be interpreted to mean that unless you tell us to the 
contrary before the Trigger Date, we will at the Trigger Date and in accordance with the 
options notified to you apply the following provisions i.e. the conversion can be deferred and 
no option applied. 
But I dont agree. I say that because taking the booklet as a whole and reading the heading 
to this section it is clear that this is a mandatory switch not an optional one. Secondly the 
booklet lists the other situations in which a conversion will take place. It is clearly an 
exhaustive list meaning that if nothing else has triggered the conversion then age will. In the 
light of this I think it is reasonably clear that the unless you notify us refers to what will 
happen at the Trigger Date to the funds, not that Mr W had the option to defer the 
conversion.In November 2018 Mr W was sent various letters about the conversion to a Guarantee 
Income Stream (GIS) on the plan anniversary after his 89th birthday. This confirmed the 
conversion to a GIS and with profits income stream would happen in February 2019, which 
was the plan anniversary prior to his 90th birthday in August 2019. A final FLA payment of 
around £72,000 would be made in January 2019 and thereafter income payments would be 
made in February each year.
At that time Mr W queried the Trigger Date. He called in mid-December 2018 and said he 
wanted to delay conversion as funds were dropping. Mr W believed that the provisions of his 
booklet meant that if you notify us differently meant that he didnt have to convert to a GIS.
In early January 2019 Prudential confirmed it would agree to delay the conversion date to 
the day before his 90th birthday and the plan would remain invested as currently until then. At 
this point there is no suggestions from the Prudential that any further delay is possible. The 
deferral of the conversion to August 2019 affects when the annual payment date will be.
In May 2019 the Prudential wrote again to confirm the final conversion date would be the day 
before his 90th birthday in August 2019 and to ask if he wished to convert his plan fully into 
the Guaranteed Income Stream or Guaranteed Income Stream with With-Profits Income 
Stream. Illustrations were attached. This request reflects the options outlined in the booklet.
On 31 July 2019 the Prudential wrote again. The Letter again asked if he wished to convert 
to a full GIS or GIS and With-Profits Income Stream. It said if it did not hear from him it would 
convert his plan to the GIS and With Profits Income Stream. 
Mr W called at the start of August to say he still thought the conversion was optional and not 
mandatory. The Prudential replied and said it had already deferred conversion from January 
to August 2019 and the conversion was mandatory.
On 9th August 2019 Mr W again says he objects to the switch to the GIS and said he also did 
this in his letter to them in early November. He didnt think they were allowing him the 
alternative which he says is to reject the move from FLA to GIS if notice given before the 
Trigger Date. 
Given the exchanges between the parties I think it shouldve been clear to Mr W in January 
2019 and certainly by August 2019 that there was no option to remain in the FLA and the 
conversion will happen. 
Mr W also referred to a letter from the Prudential 23 January 2019 which he said he took to 
show they accepted his objection to the transfer had been accepted before the Trigger Date 
as per clause 3.4. But I dont agree. I think the letter refers to his request to change some 
funds. At that time because the Prudential had agreed to defer the conversion to August 
2019, he remained invested in the FLA and therefore the letter reflected requested changes 
in the funds he selected not that it accepted that he could avoid the conversion to a GIS. 
January 2020 payment
I have seen a unit allocation statement for the FLA which as Mr W says refers to the next 
regular payment as 2 January 2020. But I am satisfied that under the policy terms the FLA 
and underlying investments were replaced by the GIS and are no longer relevant following 
the conversion such that no payment was due in January 2020 in addition to the amount 
payable because the FLA has been converted to a GIS.
Mr W refers to section 1.3.3 of his booklet re duration of pension payments. This says that 
pension instalments from his FLA are payable for life. But it then goes onto say that in certain circumstances outlined in section 3 some or all of the units in his FLA will be 
cancelled and used to provide an FGI. It is clear that one of those circumstances is age and 
consequently all the FLA units have been converted to FGI. This section further supports my 
conclusions about the conversion from FLA to FGI and the cessation of future payments 
(such as in January 2020) under the FLA. So for those reasons I dont think any further FLA 
pension payment was due in early 2020.
With profits increases
As I have noted above in various letters, Mr W was asked whether to opt for a GIS or part 
GIS and part With Profits Income Stream. He was told if he didnt make a choice he would 
be allocated to the GIS and With Profits Income stream. In particular these options and 
illustrations of the amounts were set out in the letter to Mr W of 31 July 2019 and attached 
papers.
Mr W referred to provisions in the booklet (1.3.1 (e)) which said that
If your FLA has to be switched to a guaranteed income by reason of age or 
underperformance in accordance with Section 3 of this Appendix and the units credited to 
you FLA (or the appropriate part) are not cancelled to provide a Fixed Guarantee Income in 
accordance with Section 4 but are instead retained as or switched into units invested in the 
With-Profits Fund, your pension instalments will be paid at the maximum level which we will 
recalculate and tell you about every year.
He also referred to a section 1.2.2.(b) on Lifetime Bonuses and the basis of their calculation 
at the Trigger Date in respect of the With-Profits Fund
As set out below Mr W opted for the option that was GIS only so the FLA investments have 
been cancelled and converted to a FGI. Consequently there is no annual recalculation as 
there wouldve been under the FGI and With-Profits option.
I also say that because, the letter of 31 July 2019 said
 Please let us know your preferred option-
1 Convert your plan fully into the Guaranteed Income Stream
2 Convert your plan into the Guaranteed Income Stream and With Profits Income Stream.
If we do not hear from you we will convert your plan to the Guaranteed Income Stream and 
With Profits income stream
The July letter attached three quotes. Their references and type are listed in the covering 
letter. So I think its clear there are several options and which quote relates to which option. 
In August 2019 Mr W replies. He does not say expressly whether he wants to take the GIS 
or GIS and with profits option. Instead he says he will accept a conversion in August 
provided the fund value and guaranteed annual income payable in August each year is not 
less than the amounts he quotes in his letter. These figures are the ones from the GIS only 
illustration sent to him with the 31 July letter and this is what has been implemented by 
Prudential in response to his request. The illustration says that it was produced on 31 July 
2019 and is for illustration purposes only so the amounts were never guaranteed to be the 
ones that would be used on conversion. Mr W has since reconfirmed the reference number 
of the quote he intended to accept. It matches the reference number for GIS only.
It seems clear to me Prudential have done as Mr W asked. I think it was reasonable for them 
to follow the instruction issued by Mr W even though the amount paid wouldnt be at the level in the quote. I say that because the figures he quotes matched the GIS only option. I also 
think it was clear the amount wasnt fixed at that point in time. So Mr Ws condition about 
value at conversion wasnt appropriate and couldnt ever have fixed the level of income but 
his reply did effectively indicate his preferred option.. 
This explains why the amount of pension put into payment doesnt match that in the 
illustration and why he is now receiving a GIS only rather than GIS and with profits..
Impact of underlying asset values on the income paid on conversion to the GIS.
Mr W referred to the regular income paid under the FLA and the value in June 2019. 
Whereas in the past the income was based on the fund value each year that is no longer the 
case. The fund value at the conversion date and the applicable annuity rate will have 
determined the level of future fixed income payable for the remainder of Mr Ws life. 
In the light of Mr Ws comments that the value of the funds wouldve increased up to the 
conversion date I questioned the Prudential. It provided details of the fund value on 31 July 
2019 and the settlement value with details of the value of each underlying fund. This showed 
the fund value fell in value at conversion. Mr W has seen this information. 
The Prudential said the change was due to a fall in the unit prices of the underlying funds, so 
the final annual pension payable was lower. Mr W has noted the value of the fund fell 
between the quotation date and the conversion date by 5.5%. But, he says the pension fell 
by just over 10%. He felt the resulting pension should therefore have fallen by only 5.5% 
from the previous around £72,000 meaning the pension wouldve been around £68,000. 
For the reasons already given I dont agree as the pension is determined by the annuity rate 
in place at that time and the settlement value applicable at that time.
Mr W also said the July letter suggested they would convert to include with profits and he felt 
that was what he accepted in his fax. But I dont agree for the reasons given above. 
Mr W said his preferred annual payment date wouldve meant the fund value recovered 
before his pension was paid. But whether the fund would have recovered is not relevant as 
once the conversion took place the underlying investments were no longer relevant. As the 
conversion had to take place by his 90th birthday he couldnt prevent the conversion 
happening and allow more time for a recovery.
Having seen this information I am satisfied the Prudential has provided a reasonable 
explanation why there was a lower value and explained why the amount now payable is 
lower than it wouldve been had he accepted the conversion earlier in 2019.
So in summary I dont think Mr W had any choice whether to convert by his 90th birthday. Mr 
Ws correspondence meant he opted for the GIS rather than GIS and with profits. The 
conversion and his choice meant the underlying FLA investment including with profits are no 
longer used to determine the amount of his pension each year. Instead a fixed annual 
payment is made based on the value at conversion and the annuity rate at that time. I am 
satisfied with the evidence provided to show the value of assets at the conversion date. 
Following the conversion no further pension is due under the FLA and no FLA payment was 
due in January 2020.
So for the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman