DRN-2783771
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001 when he applied for a loan.
  
What happened
Mr W took out a loan in July 2001 for £500.00 over a loan repayment term of 18 months. He 
paid £54.13 as a single premium for PPI to give him 18 months cover. He said the policy 
was mis-sold. He also told us that at the time of the sale, he had been working full time for 
four months. Before that he was a part-time employee and had worked for six months for 10 
hours a week.
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he would not have been able to make an 
unemployment claim on the policy until he had worked for 12 months at 16 hours per week. 
This limited the benefit of the policy.
Barclays Bank disagreed with our adjudicators view, so the matter has been passed to me 
to look at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the reason Ill set out below.
Barclays Bank said Mr W was eligible to buy PPI and that it was optional. I accept that Mr W 
was eligible to buy the PPI policy in 2001.
 
Barclays Bank also produced a copy of the policy Mr W bought. The policy says he cannot 
claim for unemployment cover unless he was in continuous work for 12 months and work 
is defined as being in paid employment for at least 16 hours per week.
 
This is important because Mr W told us he had only been working full time for 4 months at 
the date of the sale. This means he would have had to work for another 8 months before he 
could make an unemployment claim on the policy. And as the loan term was for 18 months, 
the policy would only have covered him for the last 10 months of the 18-month loan term  
which did not reflect good value for Mr W. I say this because Mr W also told us he had no 
other sources of revenue to make his loan repayments, so I think having unemployment 
cover for 18 months would have been important to him.
 
Barclays Bank said this was an advised sale, so the adviser should have advised Mr W 
about how the limitations affected him on an unemployment claim. However, in this case, I 
dont think it is clear this limitation was highlighted to Mr W at the time of the sale and I think 
this is a failing in the sale. And I dont think he would have bought the policy if this limitation 
had been highlighted to him.
So I think Mr W has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold the policy and needs to put things right for Mr W by putting 
him in the position he would have been in if he had not bought the PPI.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mr W in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI. Barclays Bank UK PLC should do the following:
Adjust the loan (if it is still in place) so that the amount Mr W owes and needs to pay 
from here on is what would have been payable, if the loan had been arranged without 
PPI;
 If the loan was repaid early or ran to term, Barclays Bank UK PLC compare the 
amount Mr W paid to repay the loan with what would have been paid if the PPI had 
not been added to the loan - and Barclays Bank UK PLC should refund the difference 
with 8% simple interest from the date the loan was repaid until the compensation is 
paid. 
Calculate how much Mr W paid for PPI each month and refund this plus 8% simple 
interest on each monthly over-payment, from when it was paid up until the 
compensation is paid. 
If Mr W made a claim on the policy in the past, then Barclays Bank UK PLC can take 
the value of that claim off the compensation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I make the award I have set out above 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman