DRN-3385288
The complaint
Ms S complains that EuroIns AD has turned down a cancellation claim she made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S father was unfortunately very unwell. So in June 2020, Ms S booked flights for her and 
her son to fly abroad to visit her father. She bought a travel insurance policy alongside her 
flights. Ms S held a passport for the country they were due to travel to, but her son didnt. Ms 
S and her son were due to fly abroad on 10 July 2020.
However, Ms S says that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government of the 
country she was due to travel to had introduced a visa requirement for non-passport holders. 
And her sons visa didnt arrive in time for Ms S and her son to travel as theyd planned. So 
they cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
EuroIns turned down Ms S claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy specifically 
excluded claims which happened because a policyholder hadnt been able to arrange a 
necessary visa before their trip. So it said Ms S claim wasnt covered.
Ms S was unhappy with EuroIns decision. She felt that her inability to travel had been down 
to Covid-19. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms S complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
cancellation section of the policy covered Ms S situation. And she felt the claim was 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. So she concluded itd been fair for EuroIns to turn 
down Ms S claim.
Ms S disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it 
clear that this decision will only consider the claim Ms S made in July 2020. A complaint Ms 
S has made about an earlier claim will be considered separately in due course. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, I think it was fair for EuroIns to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
First, I understand Ms S father has sadly passed away. Im sorry to hear about Ms S loss 
and Id like to offer my sincere condolences to her.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Ms S policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether EuroIns has 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Ms S policy, as these form the basis of her 
contract with EuroIns. The cancellation section of the policy provides cover for a 
policyholders unused travel and accommodation costs if theyre unable to travel for one of 
the following, specific, listed reasons:
the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative 
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time the policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or 
fire;
the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or 
you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
I think EuroIns has clearly set out the specific events it covers in the event that a 
policyholder has to cancel their trip in its terms and conditions. And I think its also clear that 
inability to travel because a policyholder hasnt been able to get a visa they need isnt one of 
those specific, listed events. Ive noted too that the cancellation section of the policy also 
sets out a specific list of events which EuroIns doesnt cover. One of these is:
any claim resulting from your failure to obtain a valid passport and any required visa in time 
for the booked trip.
This means that not only is the reason Ms S had to cancel the trip not covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy, her situation is also specifically excluded by the terms of 
her contract with EuroIns. So I dont think EuroIns acted unfairly when it turned down Ms S 
claim.
Its clear that Ms S feels strongly that her claim was caused by Covid-19, as she says that 
prior to the pandemic, no visa requirements existed between the UK and the country she 
was due to travel to. Ive thought about this. But even if I were to accept that Covid-19 was 
the main reason Ms S was unable to travel, I note that the cancellation section of the policy 
also includes the following specific exclusion:
any claims arising from any epidemic or pandemic, including but not limited to Coronavirus 
disease (COVID-19); severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-COV-2) or any 
mutation of these.
As Covid-19 had been declared to be a pandemic by the World Health Organisation on 11 
March 2020, even if EuroIns had treated Covid-19 as the main cancellation reason, I think 
its most likely that this exclusion would apply to the circumstances of Ms S claim anyway.
Overall, I find that it was fair for EuroIns to conclude that Ms S claim wasnt covered by the 
policy terms. And so I think it was reasonable for EuroIns to turn her claim down. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman