DRN-2097690
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) gave 
him unaffordable loans. Mr S says he soon became dependant on the lending and all of his 
wages were used to cover loan repayments to SNC and other lenders.
What happened
Mr S approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in February 2017. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr S was initially given a facility with a £350 credit limit in February 2017. His limit was 
increased on two occasions with his final increase taking his credit limit to £420
by June 2017. The facility was repaid in full in December 2018. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. He thought that SNC were wrong to 
grant Mr S his facility as it was unaffordable from the outset.
It appears that Mr S agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed and provided the 
following points:
SNC explained that when working out a consumers disposable income they use an 
algorithm.
When calculating non-disposable expenditure, SNC maintains significant customer 
focussed controls and it makes several allowances for everyday living costs that may 
not be perceived as essential by other lenders.
SNC believe it calculated the income and disposable income correctly and therefore 
the facility was affordable for Mr S.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
The adjudicator who investigated Mr Ss complaint believed the facility was unaffordable 
from the outset. The adjudicator said Mr S actually had a lower monthly income and a higher 
monthly expenditure than the figures SNC relied on when assessing the overall affordability 
of the lending applied for.
Mr S declared he was employed with a monthly income of £1,400. SNC had access to 
Mr S bank statements for the three months prior to the start of the facility on 
10 February 2017. And after SNC assessed Mr S bank statements, it concluded that his 
monthly income was around £1,665.47. SNC told us this was made up of £285 for his salary, 
£1,239.70 in bank transfers, and £140.77 in other income.
SNC has told us that when checking a potential customers income, it considers the 
following;
Any salary received by the customer.
Bank transfers - the algorithm considers both incoming and outgoing transfers and 
determines to what extent incoming transfers represent actual income.
Any other regular income which does not fall into other categories, excluding funds 
received from gambling, borrowing from other sources of credit, other loans or 
returns and refunds which are disregarded in calculating monthly income.
I think the key point here is an income that is regular - an income that could be guaranteed 
each month or at least regular enough for SNC to have confidence that a sum would be 
received. Otherwise, if an income is not guaranteed, then, in my view SNC would need to 
think carefully about whether it would be reasonable to include all or some of it in the income 
calculation. 
As Mr S applied for his facility on 10 February 2017, I acknowledge that SNC didnt have his 
full bank statements for November 2016 and February 2017. It only had the last 16 days for 
November 2016 and the first 10 days for February 2017. As this wouldnt have presented the 
full picture of Mr Ss circumstances in these two months, Ive particularly focused on the 
information it held for December 2016 and January 2017  when SNC were privy to Mr Ss 
full bank statements for both months and therefore gave a clear, overall picture of his 
monthly financial commitments. 
Looking at Mr Ss circumstances in these two months, SNC would have seen that Mr Ss 
salary wasnt being paid into the bank account it had access to. It seems that Mr S had 
another account, from which he would transfer money. And it was likely he was receiving his 
salary into his other account - but SNC didnt know, so couldnt confirm Mr Ss income. 
I say this because in the month of December 2016, Mr S transferred in £2,071.44 from his 
other account whilst transferring £416.80 back out again. So, in-line with the way SNC 
considers bank transfers, Ive calculated Mr Ss income to be £1,654.64 for December 2016 
 which is the difference between the transfers. I havent seen any other transfers into his 
account which leads me to believe his income was higher than this. 
Having done the same for January 2017, I think Mr Ss income was around £715.11. Again, 
there was no evidence of any salary coming into the account, other than transfers into the 
account totalling £947. Significantly less than what SNC believed to be Mr Ss income. 
There were other deposits into the account in January 2017, but these were from short term 
lenders (seven new loans totalling £900 worth of borrowing) so this money wouldve 
needed to have been repaid. And, I would add here that in my view, someone taking out 
seven new short-term loans (when there were some already outstanding) is a sign that Mr S 
may have been having difficulties.  
I acknowledge that Mr S received a payment of £250 into his account and it seems that SNC 
has included this as part of Mr Ss income. But I think it wasnt reasonable to so as the 
payment was a refund and it was a one-off payment.Im unsure how SNC has calculated Mr Ss overall monthly income to be £1,665.47. I think 
its likely SNC focussed on Mr Ss bank statements in December 2016. I cant see any other 
regular income which leads me to believe his salary was higher than £1,654.64 for 
December 2016 and £715.11 for January 2017. To me, it seems that Mr Ss income 
fluctuated each month. 
This leads me on to Mr Ss monthly expenditure for December 2016 and January 2017.  Ive 
calculated Mr Ss average monthly essential expenditure to be £338.65 for these two 
months. This was made up of transactions for food, overdraft charges, a one-off mobile 
phone bill and petrol transactions. Mr Ss bank statements show minimal outgoings so I think 
its likely he may have had other expenditure elsewhere which SNC werent aware of. 
But, notwithstanding the above, I think SNC were privy to information suggesting Mr S was 
reliant on short term loans, and this is something which was concerning. In December 2016, 
Mr S made 11 payments to short term lenders of around £574. And in January 2017, he 
made 14 payments of around £365.  When considering this information along with Mr Ss 
other essential expenditure, I have calculated Mr Ss average monthly expenditure to be at 
least around £807.76. This is without considering any cash withdrawals from the account, 
which SNC tells us it considers as part of a potential customers non-disposable calculations. 
The cash withdrawals averaged around £355 for these two months which led to Mr S having 
even less disposable income.
This means that Mr S didnt have enough income to meet his December 2016 repayment, 
but he had more outgoings than his income for January 2017 (without even considering that 
he owed other short-term lenders £900 in principal).
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that for one out of two months prior to taking the 
credit facility, Mr S had no disposable income to be able to meet the minimum required 
repayment of the credit facility which was £20. 
I think SNC had enough information to suggest the facility was unaffordable for Mr S from 
the outset. I think it ought to have reasonably been concerned about his ability to meet his 
repayments in an affordable and sustainable manner - especially as it had minimal 
knowledge about Mr Ss actual income So, I think SNC were wrong to have provided Mr S 
with the Safety Net facility from the start.
Putting things right
Refund all interest, fees and charges from the start of the facility until it closed.
Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S calculated from 
the date he originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
SNC should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file from the 
start of the lending relationship.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman