DRN-2776154
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2008 with a credit card. Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr M complained to this service. He said that although the application for the credit card 
started online, it was completed by telephone call. He said he was told during the call that he 
had to have PPI to get the credit card. He did not need it and could rely on his family to 
make his credit card repayments.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. 
Mr M disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays Bank probably made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI 
with the credit card and he chose to take it out. I say this because I have not seen any 
persuasive evidence to prove there was a telephone call as Barclays Bank says the 
application was dealt with online  and this would normally be done without speaking to 
a member of the banks staff. Barclays Bank has produced a printout of the online 
application. Mr M hasnt given me any detail about the conversation - like what was said, 
on what day and by whom. So I think it is probably more likely that the PPI was applied 
for completely online rather than by way of a telephone call.  
Barclays Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide 
if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Barclays Bank gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it could have been. But as I think he chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
Mr M also said he could have relied on his family to make his credit cards repayments. 
I understand the point he is making, but there was no guarantee he could still rely on this 
help at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this support meant the PPI was 
mis-sold.
Which means Barclays Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
M. 
But Barclays Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays Bank didnt tell Mr 
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he said about having statutory 
sick pay and family support. But these points dont change my decision. I say this because 
the PPI could have lasted for longer than his sick pay and his family support may not have 
been there in the future, so it is likely PPI could have been useful for him.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman