DRN-4433570
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money they lost 
when they fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In early 2021, Mr B purchased £200 worth of cryptocurrency. He did so via a legitimate 
cryptocurrency merchant Ill refer to as J. He was then contacted by another company, R, 
who I understand claimed to be a subsidiary of J.
R told Mr B they would help set him up with an exchange and platform, and encouraged him 
to invest with them. I understand R used remote access software to access Mr Bs device 
and help him set up an exchange wallet with B  who are also a legitimate cryptocurrency 
merchant. He sent funds to B from his joint Lloyds account, then purchased cryptocurrency 
to send on to Rs platform.
At first, Mr B says the cryptocurrency appeared to grow. But then it crashed. R told him he 
was liable for a loss exceeding £30,000. Following this, he sent a series of further payments 
from the joint account he and Mrs B held with Lloyds, to (re)cover the loss.
Mr B says he repeatedly asked to withdraw funds but was told he couldnt until all his 
trades/stocks were positive. On Rs suggestion, Mr B took out a loan to fund further 
payments, as well as using money from an equity release. Ultimately, R stopped responding. 
Mr B then realised R were operating a scam, and so logged a fraud dispute with Lloyds.
Lloyds didnt agree to refund Mr and Mrs B, following their fraud claim and subsequent 
complaint. It said the loss had only occurred when the funds were sent on from B. Unhappy 
with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs B referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
reviewed things, but ultimately didnt think Lloyds was liable for their loss.
The case was then allocated to me as Mr and Mrs B appealed the investigators outcome. In 
brief summary, they raised the following points:
They dispute the investigators view that these were me-to-me payments, and that 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code 
therefore doesnt apply. They say B was only an in and out exchange, and the only 
destination was R  as Lloyds knew, because Mr B told it during a call when 
processing one of the payments. So they think the code applies.
As Lloyds previously said there was negative information available online about R 
since December 2020, it should have been aware R were illicit. Although Lloyds has 
since said it cant find any reference to this, Mr and Mrs B doesnt think it can 
backtrack. And it should therefore have stopped the payments, regardless of their 
insistence to continue  which was due to their fear of Rs legal threats.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2023, explaining I was minded to uphold the 
complaint and direct Lloyds to refund some, but not all, of Mr and Mrs Bs loss. Both parties 
have responded to accept my proposal, although Mr and Mrs B have queried what the exact 
award will be when interest is applied. As both sides have responded, I can now proceed to 
issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new points or evidence in response to my provisional findings, I see 
no reason to depart from them. I uphold this complaint, and I give directions below for what 
Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs B. 
Before setting out my reasons for this decision, Ill comment on Mr and Mrs Bs query about 
the award. As I have told them directly, it will be for Lloyds to complete the final calculation in 
line with the directions I give in my decision. Im satisfied those directions make it clear how 
it should do this. But it will be Lloyds, rather than our service, who is responsible for 
completing the calculations  bearing in mind that interest will accumulate up until the award 
is paid. 
With that said, Ill now give my reasons for upholding this complaint.
The transactions Im considering
I want to clarify the transactions Im considering. Of most significance, compared to what has 
already been set out in the investigators view, is that Mr B has told us he received credits in 
via a different cryptocurrency wallet (so not with B or J)  which came from the scam 
platform.
As these credits were paid into the Lloyds account, they are relevant for establishing the 
outstanding loss being sought from Lloyds. Particularly bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs B 
have already recovered losses from the other banks used to send payments to the scam.
Outward payments lost to the scam (via B):
Requested date Amount Payment type
26/03/2021 £1,000.00 Debit card
26/03/2021 £1,000.00 Debit card
26/03/2021 £1,000.00 Debit card
27/03/2021 £1,000.00 Debit card
30/03/2021 £10.00 Transfer
30/03/2021 £22,000.00 Transfer
31/03/2021 £10,000.00 Transfer
31/03/2021 £1,000.00 Debit card
31/03/2021 £2,000.00 Debit card
31/03/2021 £2,200.00 Debit card
04/04/2021 £20.00 Debit card
07/04/2021 £1,000.00 Transfer
07/04/2021 £19,000.00 Transfer
09/04/2021 £500.00 Debit card10/04/2021 £330.00 Debit card
13/04/2021 £9,000.00 Transfer
14/04/2021 £1,000.00 Transfer
14/04/2021 £25.00 Debit card
18/04/2021 £50.00 Debit card
30/04/2021 £500.00 Transfer
10/05/2021 £1,001.00 Transfer
11/05/2021 £1,000.00 Transfer
15/06/2021 £10,000.00 Transfer
16/06/2021 £10,000.00 Transfer
16/06/2021 £15,000.00 Transfer
17/06/2021 £10,000.00 Transfer
21/06/2021 £25,000.00 Transfer
22/06/2021 £14,000.00 Transfer
22/06/2021 £5,000.00 Transfer
TOTAL £163,636.00  
Credits from the scam:
Date received Amount Description
26/03/2021 £83.44 Credit from B
26/03/2021 £4.13 Credit from other crypto wallet, 'C'
26/03/2021 £2,118.91 Credit from C
27/03/2021 £1,981.19 Credit from C
TOTAL £4,187.67  
By my calculations, that means the loss relevant to this complaint is £159,488.33.
Authorisation
Its accepted that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr B, even though he was 
tricked by the scammer. In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the 
broad position is that a customer would generally be liable for an authorised payment  but 
their bank would be liable for an unauthorised payment.
That said, there are situations where it might be fair to hold a bank liable for an authorised 
transaction. Such as if the payment was a result of a scam, and the scam risk was (or ought 
to have been) apparent to the bank, and appropriate intervention in response to that  as 
part of banks duties to help protect customers from financial harm from fraud  would have 
affected the customers decision making and preventing them from incurring the fraudulent 
loss.
Furthermore, Lloyds has signed up to the CRM code. If the code applies, there are additional 
considerations for whether it should be held liable for losses incurred from an authorised 
push payment (APP) scam. So Ill address that first.The CRM code
This code only covers authorised push payments (which includes bank transfers, but not 
card payments) made between two accounts held in the UK. Both accounts must be 
denominated in pounds sterling (GBP). And the payments must go to another person.
As a number of these payments were made by card, they dont fall within the scope of the 
code for that reason alone. But I also dont think the transfers are covered by the code.
While Mr and Mrs B refer to B, the payment destination shown on their statements, as purely 
an in-and-out exchange, I dont agree with that characterisation. As Mr B explained to Lloyds 
during a call at the time of making one of the payments, he had to set up a wallet with B in 
his name. He would send a payment to B, exchange it into cryptocurrency, then sent it on to 
R. It didnt automatically transfer through to an external account without Mr B completing an 
additional payment. Without further action, the funds would simply have stayed in Mr Bs 
wallet with B.
So although the end destination was a scam, under the confines of the code, the payments 
to B were correctly deemed me-to-me payments.
Id also highlight that, even if I were to take another view and treat R as the destination 
(which, to be clear, I dont think would be right), the payments still wouldnt be covered by 
the code. Thats because it only covers payments between UK-based GBP accounts. First of 
all, its not clear to me that the destination account was in the UK, given that R were 
operating from abroad. And the onward payment was made in cryptocurrency  and so 
wasnt between GBP accounts.
So, Im satisfied the code isnt relevant here. But, in line with the principles Ive set out 
above, Ive considered whether Lloyds is liable in line with its wider fraud-prevention duties.
Fraud risk
Im not persuaded Lloyds initially had cause to be concerned that Mr B was at risk from 
fraud. The payments were going to B, which is a legitimate company. Companies can, and 
do, offer genuine cryptocurrency services by way of wallets, exchanges, and trading. So that 
alone wouldnt reasonably have caused concern. Nor do I think the value of the first few 
payments was uncharacteristically high or otherwise concerning.
However, Lloyds did identify a fraud risk when Mr B made the fourth payment. While I dont 
think the size or destination (as apparent to Lloyds from the payment request alone) 
appeared particularly concerning in isolation, I can see why it was identified as risky. It 
followed three payments the previous day to a new cryptocurrency payee. So it could be 
seen as suspicious that Mr B would then go on to make a further payment for the same 
amount  totalling £4,000 in two days, over four payments  to a new payee.
Did Lloyds do enough in response to the fraud risk identified?
In response to the risk identified, Lloyds required Mr B to call it to discuss the payment. So 
Ive considered whether it asked enough, and whether it was reasonable, in line with Mr Bs 
responses, that it was sufficiently reassured and therefore processed the payment. To that 
end, Ive listened to the call.Ive considered this carefully. Im mindful that, in hindsight, knowing the funds were lost to a 
scam, the risks may seem more apparent than they were at the time. Id also emphasise 
there are no set questions banks have to ask. Nor would I consider it reasonable (as has 
been suggested) that Lloyds should refuse an instruction, regardless of the insistence or 
responses of the customer, due to any level of risk indicator. That would be contrary to 
Lloyds regulatory duty to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay.
But I would expect banks to question with genuine curiosity, to understand the full 
circumstances of the payment. And to help educate customers on the scam risks they are 
aware of associated with the type of transaction being made. As banks will generally have 
more knowledge of this than their customers.
In the call, Mr B gave the impression of being confident in what he was doing, and of having 
satisfied himself R were legitimate. He hadnt yet run into the difficulties with R that emerged 
shortly after. And the staff member Mr B spoke to did ask some sensible questions and 
highlight some relevant points. Such as emphasising the need to be sure of how the 
withdrawal process worked (which Mr B said he could do via his wallet with B).
However, I also think there were some concerning points mentioned during the call that 
werent appropriately questioned or challenged. While Mr B was advised to check how to 
withdraw, the staff member at Lloyds said he didnt need to actually do it as he would want to 
keep his money on Rs platform in order to make more money. This sounded more like a 
reassurance than a warning. And Lloyds didnt explain that scammers often allow low-level 
withdrawals initially, to appear legitimate and thereby persuade customers to pay more.
Additionally, Mr B told Lloyds he would be sending the funds on to R. So Lloyds knew the 
payment wasnt staying with B. Already, the involvement of a third-party ought to have rung 
alarm bells, in the context of Mr B making cryptocurrency-related payments. Dating back to 
mid-2018, the UK financial regulator (the FCA) and Action Fraud had warned about the 
features of such cryptocurrency scams, whereby customers are tricked into sending 
cryptocurrency, via legitimate wallets or exchanges, on to professional-looking fake trading 
platforms. So this is something Lloyds should have been aware of, and taken into account, 
when questioning Mr B.
No questions were asked about how Mr B came to deal with R. He seems to have been 
quite open at this stage about what he was doing. So if asked, I think he would have 
explained the circumstances of how R contacted him following him setting up an account 
with J, due to them being a subsidiary. I think the manner of this contact ought to have 
sounded suspicious to Lloyds, in light of its experience of cryptocurrency scams. But as this 
wasnt explored, no warnings were given to Mr B about this.
Furthermore, Mr B wasnt asked about Rs role in him setting up the cryptocurrency wallets. 
Hes told us that remote access software was used by R to help him set up the account with 
B. Again, I would have expected Lloyds to have realised this fit a known pattern of these 
types of cryptocurrency scams. Which is something I dont think Mr B, as a layperson, 
appreciated the risk of to the same extent.
Additionally, the way Mr B described his dealings with R sounded like it went beyond 
providing a cryptocurrency platform/exchange. I think it gave the impression that R were 
giving him investment advice, and that advice went beyond cryptocurrency and into other 
forms of investment  as mentioned in the call.That would be an indication that R should be regulated, in order to be providing such 
services in the UK. That wasnt explored further. And while the FCA didnt issue a warning 
about R until after all these payments were made, Lloyds could have guided Mr B on how to 
check the FCA register  which R were not listed on as an authorised firm.
While I wouldnt expect Lloyds to go so far as to provide Mr B with investment advice, I dont 
consider it unreasonable to expect, in response to what it was told, that it could have warned 
Mr B about checking the FCA register, and why R not being regulated in the UK could be an 
indicator they were operating dishonestly  in light of the services they seemed to be 
offering.
The tone of this intervention call overall was broadly reassuring. I appreciate the staff 
member seemed interested in, and knowledgeable about, cryptocurrency. But I think there 
wasnt enough done to fully assess the risks. The circumstances werent explored enough, 
particularly in response to some points mentioned which I think should have rung alarm bells 
with Lloyds.
Mr B has explained he wasnt an experienced investor and wasnt well-versed in how 
cryptocurrency scams work. I think he was therefore open to further explanation and 
warnings from Lloyds about the risks this was a scam. So I do think there was a missed 
opportunity by Lloyds to stop the loss incurred from that point. And I therefore consider it 
reasonable to expect it to bear some liability for that loss.
Should Mr and Mrs B also share liability for their loss?
Even though Ive found that Lloyds has some liability for what happened, I must also 
consider whether there was contributory negligence by Mr B. If he showed an unreasonable 
lack of care, which contributed to the loss, then Id consider it fair to expect him and Mrs B to 
share liability alongside Lloyds.
In making this assessment, I am conscious there was a sophisticated scam occurring. But in 
all the circumstances, I do consider it fair to hold Mr B partly to blame for the loss incurred, 
for the following reasons:
Its unclear to me how much research Mr B did into R before investing. Although he 
has made reference to looking up R, at points he describes this as happening after 
he had started investing, when he was struggling with making a withdrawal. And 
when he did look them up, he says he found both good and bad information. 
While Ive not been able to find much from the relevant time about R, I accept Mr Bs 
testimony that he did find reviews as accurate. Its not usual for reviews  both good 
and bad  to be removed or deleted in subsequent years. And if Mr B had found 
those mixed reviews prior to getting to the point when he felt trapped by the situation, 
as I consider it would be reasonable to expect him to, before making a substantial 
investment, he may not have chosen to trade with R.
Id also point out that, while there may have been adverse information online about 
R, Ive seen no indication this is something Lloyds ought to have been aware of. We 
wouldnt expect it to complete research on behalf of its customers. While we expect 
banks to employ watchlists of merchants who may be a scam, that would normally be 
in response to strong evidence such as a regulatory warning. As set out above, the 
FCA warning wasnt live at the time. And nor would Lloyds have identified R 
immediately from its watchlist even if it had been, given that the payments were 
going to B.The call Ive outlined above wasnt the only point at which Lloyds intervened with the 
payments. Mr B says the larger payments on 31 March 2021 were him sending funds 
to try to recover his loss. And these payments were also blocked pending a 
conversation with him. I also note there is reference to a further payment being 
blocked right at the end of the scam, although Lloyds hasnt provided much detail 
about this.
Having listened to the second call, again Im not persuaded Lloyds questioning went 
far enough. But equally, Mr B said he was 99.9% sure R were a genuine 
investment. Whereas he has subsequently told us he felt pressured by R, and that he 
didnt think he was investing at this point  rather, he was chasing his loss. Had he 
positioned this situation in that way during his call, that would have made it easier for 
Lloyds to identify, and warn Mr B, that it sounded like a scam. The way he responded 
therefore likely contributed to his loss.
For example, in this call, Mr B asked whether he had given remote access to his 
device and said he hadnt. Whereas he has told us he did give remote access to R 
when setting up his cryptocurrency wallet(s). Im mindful the question sounded more 
as though Lloyds were concerned about access to his Lloyds account, not the 
onward destination. But if Mr B had answered more carefully, again it would have 
improved Lloyds chances of uncovering the scam. 
Lloyds also warned Mr B that these scams often involve customers being told to lie to 
their banks about what they are doing. Its not particularly clear to me whether that 
was happening here. But given Mr Bs subsequent comments about his fear about 
Rs threat of legal action, and his understanding he was no longer investing, his 
responses to Lloyds do suggest he wasnt being completely forthcoming. As 
highlighted above, I do think that, in not answering these questions openly and 
carefully, as I would expect, it may have hindered Lloyds further chance to help 
prevent some of the loss.
Mr B has also took out a loan to fund some of the payments he made to R. As well as 
using funds from an equity loan (although I havent seen any suggestion that was 
taken out during the scam or at Rs prompting). I think Mr B should have realised it 
wasnt appropriate to borrow for this purpose. As he said himself during a call with 
Lloyds, he understood (even when thinking R were legitimate) that there was a risk 
he would lose all his funds.
I therefore think he should have realised this posed a repayment risk. Its therefore 
unlikely he gave investments as the purpose of the loan  as if he had done so, its 
unlikely the lending would have been agreed. And if he hadnt taken out this loan, it 
would have reduced the amount of money he had available to send on the scam. So 
again, I do think Mr B showed a lack of care which contributed to his loss.
Overall, Im minded to conclude it would be fair to expect Mr B (and Mrs B, as the joint 
account holder) to share liability with Lloyds for the fraudulent loss incurred from payment 
four onwards. Im therefore proposing that Lloyds should refund 50% of this loss.
Recovery
For the first three payments which Ive concluded Lloyds isnt at fault for not preventing, Ive 
considered whether it missed a chance to recover the loss.However, I dont think Lloyds ought to have done more which would have succeeded in 
recovering the loss. As the payments were sent by card, the chargeback scheme applies. 
This is a voluntary scheme to help resolve payment disputes between consumers and 
merchants. Banks arent obliged to raise claims, but wed consider it good practice to do so if 
the claim was likely to succeed. That would generally require specific evidence, as set out in 
the scheme rules, that there was an issue with the merchants service.
The scheme only covers disputes with the merchant paid directly. As set out above, that was 
B. They were the merchant who Lloyds would have received the payment requests from. 
And there is no allegation they were involved in the scam, or otherwise didnt provide the 
expected level of service. They loaded the funds in line with the payment request. And so I 
dont think there were grounds, under the scheme rules, for successful chargeback claims.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank 
PLC must refund half of Mr and Mrs Bs loss incurred, via their Lloyds account (taking into 
accounts the credits received), from the fourth scam payment onwards.
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, running from the 
dates of payment to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible. This is to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for the loss of use of the funds.
Lloyds Bank PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr and Mrs B accept my final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman