DRN-4360967
Complaint
Miss M has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable and provided when she was going through a really difficult period.
Background
L2G provided Miss M with a loan for £500 in July 2022. This loan had an APR of 1,013.2% 
and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £114.28. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ms complaint and he thought L2G hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss M unfairly. So he didnt think that Miss Ms complaint should 
be upheld. Miss M disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 4 September 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 4 September 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Miss Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Miss Ms complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss M could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I considered what L2G had done and its actions in light of this.
I was mindful that L2G had determined that Miss Ms income was significantly lower than 
what shed declared. And the credit check L2G carried out showed Miss M had had previous 
difficulties with credit  in the form of defaults and arrangements to pay. The credit check 
carried out also showed that Miss M just taken out a loan for an amount equivalent to her 
monthly salary in the period leading up to this loan. 
So it seemed clear to me that Miss M didnt fit the profile of the average borrower and I 
wasnt persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on ONS data to validate her monthly 
expenditure. Given what Id seen, I was persuaded by what Miss M had said about already 
being in a difficult financial position at the time. 
I did accept it was possible that Miss Ms credit file reflected her choices rather than financial 
difficulties. But I also added that my experience of these types of cases suggest this was 
unlikely. In any event, I was satisfied that further checks would more like than not have 
shown that Miss M wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without experiencing undue 
difficulty or borrowing further. 
All of this left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss M. And as L2G 
provided Miss M with this loan, notwithstanding this, this left me intending to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
I thought that as Miss M ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees 
and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been provided with, she lost out because of what 
L2G did wrong. And I was satisfied that this meant that L2G needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M confirmed that she agreed with my provisional decision and that she had nothing 
further to add.
L2G disagreed with my provisional decision. It said it used a new breed of credit reference 
agency licensed by the regulator. It verified that Miss M had a minimum income of £1,018.73 
and total monthly expenditure of £1,450.00, which left her with a monthly disposable income 
of £145.
It didnt agree that it relied on ONS data as it only used this data to check whether Miss Ms 
declarations were reasonable. Finally, it acknowledged that Miss M had had previous 
difficulties with credit but these were historic and didnt mean that her application should 
have been rejected.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Ms complaint in my provisional 
decision of 4 September 2023. 
L2G has disputed my findings and Ive considered what it has said. I accept that Miss Ms 
defaults were historic. Nonetheless, the copy of the credit search provided does indicate that 
shed other difficulties in the form of missed payments and arrangements to pay.
In any event, Im not suggesting that Miss Ms previous difficulty with credit in itself meant 
that L2G shouldnt have lent to her. But I do think that this coupled with Miss Ms income 
being significantly lower than shed declared mean that further checks were necessary in this 
instance. And if these further checks had been carried out L2G would have seen that Miss M 
was unlikely to make the payments to this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Furthermore, having considered what L2G has said about its own conclusions on Miss Ms 
income and expenditure, I dont see how a monthly income of £1.018.73 and monthly 
expenditure of £1,450.00 would have left Miss M with disposable income of £145. On the 
basis of what L2G says it found out, Miss Ms existing expenditure exceeded her income. 
And I dont see how she had the disposable income to make the payments to this loan.So while Ive considered the further comments that L2G has made in response to my 
provisional decision of 4 September 2023, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
Im therefore still upholding Miss Ms complaint. And I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put 
things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss M
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Miss M by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss M made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £500 originally lent. If Miss M has 
already repaid more than £500 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss M;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss M to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Ms credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-party 
debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account and 
its the case that Miss M is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 4 September 2023, 
Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman