DRN-3449104
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) settled a cancellation claim 
he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D has travel insurance as a benefit of a charge card.
In January 2020, Mr D paid a deposit of around £3976 to an activity company in a country Ill 
call A for a trip he planned to take with some of his family in July 2020. Mr D says he paid for 
this deposit as a gift.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, As government closed its borders to non-
nationals and the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against 
all but essential travel to A. These restrictions remained in place at the point Mr D was due 
to travel. So Mr D had to cancel the trip. As the activity company declined to refund Mr Ds 
deposit, he made a claim on his policy for the full deposit cost.
IPA accepted Mr Ds claim and partly settled it. Its records stated that Mr D was travelling 
along with his two sons, brother and nephew and it considered the claim on this basis. 
However, it only settled Mr Ds own share of the total deposit cost. Thats because it said the 
policy didnt cover the costs of people who werent insured by the policy.
Mr D was unhappy with the way IPA had settled his claim and he asked us to look into his 
complaint. He said that as hed paid for the activity, the other members of his party hadnt 
suffered a financial loss and therefore werent able to claim on their own insurance policies.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He considered the policy 
terms and he felt that IPA had made it clear that it would only cover a policyholders own 
share of the costs. And he noted that Mr D had stated that one of his sons had paid for the 
flights, as Mr D had paid for the activity. So he didnt think he could fairly find that Mr D had 
paid for the trip as a gift either. Overall, he thought IPA had settled Mr Ds claim fairly.
Mr D disagreed. He said that he hadnt paid for his brother or nephew and that evidence 
would prove this. He told us that his sons had paid for their own airfares, as had he. His son 
had paid for those flights on his own charge card; had been refunded in full for those costs 
and returned the payments to his brother and Mr D. He felt the investigator had been 
stretching the policy language beyond peoples comprehension. And he maintained that hed 
bought the trips for his family as a gift.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think IPA has settled his claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ds policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether IPA treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr D and IPA. Theres no dispute that Mr Ds trip was cancelled as a result of the 
FCDO advice against travel to A. This is an insured event which is covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy. So I think it was appropriate for IPA to accept and deal 
with Mr Ds claim under this section. The policy says IPA will pay the following:
Up to £7,500 for Your unused travel, accommodation, excursions and leisure activities that 
have been Purchased on the Card Account, which are non-refundable or any fee You are 
charged to change them if You cancel, postpone, change or abandon Your Trip..
IPA has set out what it means by Your in the definitions section of the policy. The policy 
says:
You/Your means the Insured.
Insured is defined as: (i) Cardmembers and their Families, (ii) Supplementary 
Cardmembers and their Families and (iii) grandchildren of the Cardmember or a 
Supplementary Cardmember who are under the age of 25 and travelling with anyone insured 
under the Card Account.
The policy says: Family means Your partner or spouse, living at the same address as You, 
and Your Children.
And finally, children is defined as follows: Any of Your children (including step-children, 
fostered or adopted children) under the age of 25, on the first day of a Trip who are legally 
dependent on You and who are not in full time employment.
So in order for Mr Ds claim to be fully payable, I think IPA is entitled to be satisfied that the 
other members of his travelling party were insured under the policy terms. It seems Mr D told 
IPA that he was travelling with his two sons; his brother and his nephew. IPA says that there 
were no supplementary cardholders who were covered by the policy. Based on the above 
terms, I dont think Mr Ds brother or nephew would fall within the definition of Mr Ds family. 
This means I dont think they can be treated as having been insured by the policy. And while 
Mr Ds sons are legally his children, their ages at the time of the claim indicate that they 
werent under the age of 25. So I dont think theyd fall within the definition of an insured 
person either. It seems to me then that it was fair for IPA to conclude that only Mr D himself 
was insured by this policy. 
In my view, IPA has made it sufficiently clear that it will only pay for your  the insured 
persons - excursions and leisure activities. As Ive found that only Mr D was covered under 
this contract, it follows I think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to limit settlement to Mr Ds 
portion of the activity costs. 
When Mr D brought his complaint to us, he told us that hed paid for the holiday as a gift. 
Based on the information hes since given us, it seems that he and his sons covered their 
own air fares (although his son paid for the flights on his card as one transaction) and hes 
now indicated that he didnt pay for his brother or nephew. The overall evidence is a little 
unclear as to who paid for what and when. As such then, I think it would be difficult for me to fairly and reasonably find that the trip was paid for as a gift, although I accept its possible. 
Id add though that if Mr D didnt pay for his brother or nephews activity deposit, its open to 
him to provide evidence which demonstrates that to IPA so that it can potentially recalculate 
any settlement due to Mr D for his share of the costs if necessary.
Overall, I find that IPA has settled this claim fairly and reasonably. While I sympathise with 
Mr Ds position, as I appreciate hes been left substantially out of pocket, Im satisfied that 
IPA has settled the claim in line with the policy terms. And based on the evidence Ive seen; I 
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct IPA to pay the full 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman