DRN-3031072
The complaint
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mrs Bs complaint.      
What happened
Mrs B said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) with a Loan 
in 2006.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mrs B had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Lloyds did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mrs Bs PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mrs B about the high level of 
commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mrs Bs complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloydss payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed.  
Mrs Bs complaint was made in on 30 May 2017. This is more than six years after Lloyds 
sold the policy to her  in 2006  which is the event shes complaining about here. So I need 
to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mrs B should 
reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
Lloyds says it sent Mrs B a letter in 5 May 2014 which alerted her to the possibility 
something might have gone wrong with her policy sale. Given what Mrs B is complaining 
about, I think she should reasonably have been aware she had reason to complain when 
she got this letter. I say this because the letter explains something may have gone wrong 
with the sale of the policy including how the limitations and exclusions were explained.
This means Mrs B needed to make her complaint about the policy sale by 5 May 2017. As 
she didnt complain until 30 May 2017 her complaint is out of time under the rules I have to 
apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
Mrs Bs representative has told us the complaint wasnt made sooner as it didnt have all the 
correspondence it needed to see if all the complaint issues had been covered. Ive thought 
about this  but Im satisfied Mrs B could still have made a complaint in time. So exceptional 
circumstances dont apply here. I say this because the letter sent to Mrs B in 2014 clearly 
highlighted the reasons their may have been problems with the sale of her policy.
I can see Lloyds sent another letter to Mrs B in 2018. But this letter only dealt with the 
commission Mrs B paid in relation to her policy, not how it was sold.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mrs B with her complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mrs B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
My final decision
Im unable to consider Mrs Bs complaint about how her policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mrs B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) As Lloyds 
Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Lloyds Bank 
PLC should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman