DRN-4098052
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (Atlanta) administered his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J had a motor insurance policy arranged through Atlanta, which is a broker.
Mr Js policy renewed in October 2022. Shortly afterwards, Atlanta says it contacted Mr J 
and told him hed not disclosed a claim made by one of the other drivers on his policy. 
It asked for an additional premium, and said he had seven days to pay it. Mr J said he didnt 
receive any correspondence, so he didnt pay.
Because Atlanta didnt get payment, it cancelled Mr Js policy. Mr J said he wasnt told about 
this.
Atlanta chased him for the outstanding balance on his policy. Mr J contacted Atlanta to ask 
why, and he was told his policy had been cancelled four weeks previously and hed been 
driving without insurance during that period.
He complained. The insurer of the policy, whod asked for the additional premium, confirmed 
that it hadnt asked for the policy to be cancelled. So Mr Js complaint is against Atlanta as 
the broker who cancelled his cover.
Atlanta said it would waive its £50 cancellation fee, leaving Mr J with £48.38 still to pay. It 
said it hadnt made any errors with cancellation of his policy.
Mr J remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and upheld it. She thought Atlanta should waive all of its charges and pay Mr J £150 
for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr J accepted the view, but Atlanta didnt respond. Because Atlanta didnt respond, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
When I reviewed the file of evidence Ive been supplied, I listened to Mr Js call to Atlanta 
when he found it had cancelled his policy. Its clear from that call that Mr J was shocked to 
discover what had gone on and his confusion and distress is clear to me.
In other parts of the file I can see that Atlanta has supplied versions of the correspondence it 
says it sent him. I can see there are several about the additional premium, and more about 
not receiving payment from him. The only correspondence Mr J says he received was the 
later parts of this, chasing payment. 
Our investigator asked Atlanta to provide evidence that all of its correspondence had been 
sent to Mr J, but it didnt respond to her questions. Id expect Atlanta to have sent all of its 
correspondence to Mr J by at least two different methods. But in this case, I cant see that it 
has sent it at all. 
Atlantas system notes dont seem to record many of these communication attempts either  
but, for example, they do show it contacted Mr J repeatedly by text message to recover the 
money it says he owed, after it had cancelled his policy. Im concerned that it didnt appear 
to use this system in the first place to contact him when his policy was in danger of being 
cancelled, when it was clearly available for use.
This seems to me to be very poor service indeed. Atlanta has failed to communicate with Mr 
J and its left him uninsured for four weeks. I appreciate it says it contacted him, but the 
evidence its supplied doesnt seem to confirm this. 
The reasonable thing to do here is for Atlanta to waive any outstanding charges on Mr Js 
account. I also think its poor service has led to Mr J being distressed and inconvenienced, so 
I think it should also pay him £150 for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited to:
Waive the outstanding balance on Mr Js account.
Pay him £150 compensation for its poor service.
Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman