DRN-2542017
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs B with a re-
mortgage in 2003. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because Santander recommended the 
policy to them, but I dont think it was suitable. I say this because Mrs B has told us she 
suffered from a number of medical conditions when she bought the policy. So she wouldnt 
have been covered by the policy if shed had to take time off work in connection with those 
conditions.
Santander considers Mrs B should provide documentary evidence to show when her 
conditions were diagnosed, and how theyve been managed. But Mrs B has told us that 
some of her conditions were diagnosed in childhood. When I take account of the nature of 
some of her conditions, I consider its reasonable for me to accept what shes said. And as 
such I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to expect Mrs B to obtain the 
documentary evidence Santander is seeking.
Ive also taken account of what Mrs B has told me about the severity of some of her 
conditions and how theyve affected her ability to work. Again, keeping in mind the nature of 
some of her conditions I think its reasonable for me to accept what shes told me.
So Im satisfied that if Mrs B had to take time off work in connection with her conditions she 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy.
Santander says the exclusion for medical conditions wouldve been discussed with Mr and 
Mrs B when they bought the policy. But from the evidence its provided there is nothing to 
suggest that this was the case. So I dont think I can safely say that Santander pointed out 
the exclusion that affected Mrs B to her and Mr B.
But even if Santander did point the exclusion out to Mr and Mrs B, this wouldnt change my 
overall conclusions about the complaint. For the reasons Ive explained above, the policy 
wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs B so Santander shouldnt have recommended it to them.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have bought the policy if Santander had made it clear it 
wasnt suitable. So, I think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of what the business did 
wrong.
  
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs B in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman