DRN-3283630
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from what she says 
was an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In March 2020 Mrs D made a series of debit card payments to a merchant Ill refer to as M. 
At the time she believed she was funding an online trading account. The payments totalled 
over £120,000. The same month there was a £20,000 withdrawal from M back into Mrs Ds 
account which she says they encouraged her to make. 
Mrs D says she felt she was being manipulated by M into making more payments and she 
reached the conclusion shed been scammed. She asked Lloyds to help her get her money 
back. Lloyds raised a chargeback with M and took this to the pre-arbitration stage before 
declining to pursue it further. 
Mrs D complained, she thinks Lloyds should have done more to protect her from a scam, 
particularly as she says the payments to M were unusual for her and her account. Lloyds 
didnt agree they should refund Mrs D. They acknowledged that they had taken longer than 
they should to raise her chargeback, and although this didnt impact on the outcome, they 
offered her £250 compensation to apologise for the delays. 
Mrs D referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend it should 
be upheld. In summary he wasnt persuaded that M were operating a scam. He didnt think 
Lloyds needed to do more. Mrs D disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prevention
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mrs D has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether M were operating a scam as Mrs D alleges. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time M were 
operating a scam. I say this as at that time they were regulated by the Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySec). They were also able to offer their services to UK customers 
as recorded on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website. The services being offered 
may have been high risk and I accept Mrs Ds testimony that its likely there were some 
questionable sales and marketing techniques. But that doesnt in itself mean M were 
operating a scam.
Ive considered all the evidence Mrs D has provided which includes reports from the FCA. 
And I note that soon after Mrs Ds payments had all been made the FCA withdrew their 
permission for M to offer their services in the UK. But this doesnt change my mind about 
whether M were operating a scam at the relevant time. The FCA withdrawing permission 
also doesnt automatically mean that M were operating a scam. 
It seems that M engaged with both the chargeback process (which Ill come to below) and 
Im aware that Mrs D has been able to complain to the Cyprus Financial Ombudsman about 
them. This doesnt support that M are operating a scam. As Ive mentioned above, there may 
have been some questionable practices, but nothing to meet the high bar to conclude that 
fraud was taking place. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that M were operating a 
scam at the time Mrs D made the payments. And although banks have obligations to be alert 
to fraud and scams, there is no obligation to protect against bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So as I dont think M were operating a scam, there isnt any reason for 
Lloyds to have intervened at the time Mrs D made her payments to them. 
Mrs D has mentioned the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting 
Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. Ive considered this but as Ive concluded 
M werent operating a scam, the obligation for Lloyds to intervene isnt triggered. 
Ultimately how Mrs D chose to spend the money in her account was her business, and 
unless there is evidence of a fraud, scam or misappropriation of the funds, Lloyds arent 
required to interfere in this. I appreciate the payments may have represented a significant 
increase in spending compared to Mrs Ds historical account use. But again, as there was no 
fraud to protect against, I dont think Lloyds ought to have done more. 
Some of Mrs Ds submissions relate to a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. These 
are factors that can be considered when seeking redress through Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). But as the payments here were all made using a debit 
rather than a credit card, the CCA isnt an option. 
Chargeback
When Mrs D approached Lloyds they began the chargeback process and took it to the pre-
arbitration stage. But when this was defended by M, they declined to take it to the last stage 
which is arbitration. I think Lloyds decision here was fair. Because of the defence of the 
chargeback by M, I dont think there was a reasonable chance of it succeeding based on the chargeback scheme rules and so Lloyds not going to the final stage of the process was a 
reasonable exercise of their discretion. 
Compensation
Lloyds accepted there were some delays in raising the chargeback and offered Mrs D £250 
compensation for the impact of this. Im satisfied this is a fair amount for that delay and any 
service failings in the circumstances of this complaint. The evidence is clear that the delay 
wasnt a reason for the chargeback failing and so I dont think Lloyds need to do more. If the 
£250 hasnt already been paid, Mrs D should contact Lloyds to arrange this. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mrs D lost such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think Lloyds are to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman