DRN-2588935
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK plc issued a person (to whom hed given third party 
access to his account) with a debit card for someone elses account.
Mr C is represented by Ms A.
What happened
Mr C had a current account with Barclays. He gave his daughter, Ms A, third party access to 
his account. Barclays issued Ms A with a card for the account in 2016. She didnt use the 
card and the card expired in 2019.
Ms A visited a branch of Barclays in May 2020 and asked for a replacement card. Barclays 
issued her with a card, and she used it to make a purchase. A few days later she says she 
was contacted by her mother. She was told that the card shed been issued with was a debit 
card which gave her access to her mothers account. 
Ms A contacted Barclays about this. She says she was given information about both her 
mothers account and her fathers account in breach of data protection legislation. 
Ms A complained to Barclays about what had happened. Barclays investigated her 
complaint. It said it had made an error when Ms A had visited the branch in May 2020. It said 
Mr C had previously held a joint account with Ms As mother, but that account had been 
changed into her mothers sole name in 2006. Barclays said that although the account had 
been changed at that time it hadnt removed the link to Mr Cs customer records. In error, the 
branch had issued a card on her mothers account. It apologised for this error. It said it had 
refunded the amount of the purchase to her mothers account and wouldnt debit this amount 
from Mr Cs account. It also offered Ms A compensation for distress and inconvenience - but 
she declined to accept this.
Ms A referred the complaint to our service on behalf of Mr C. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint. He said we could only consider how Mr C had been impacted by what had 
happened. This was because Ms A wasnt an eligible complainant under our Rules. He also 
said we couldnt comment on Barclays policies and procedures because we werent the 
Regulator. He thought Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably when it had refunded Ms As 
mothers account and hadnt sought to recover this from Mr C. He didnt think it needed to do 
anything more.
Ms A didnt agree. She said she was bringing the complaint because her mothers account 
had been accessed by someone with third party authority on Mr Cs account. She said her 
father hadnt suffered any inconvenience, but her mother had. She said we should 
investigate why Barclays had allowed her to access her mothers account without the 
necessary permission. She said Barclays system wasnt fit for purpose.
Our investigator didnt change his view. Because Mr C didnt agree the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that in this decision Im only looking at what happened to Mr 
Cs account. If Ms A wants to bring a complaint on behalf of her mother regarding what 
happened to her mothers account  that would have to be dealt with separately. 
As our investigator said, I also cannot consider how Ms A has been impacted as a result of 
what happened. Thats because shes not an eligible complainant under the Rules which 
apply to our service. Mr C is the eligible complainant here. So, I can consider whether 
Barclays has treated him fairly and reasonably.
Barclays has acknowledged that it didnt do everything it should have done when the joint 
account which Mr C held with his former wife was changed into a sole account in her name. 
At that time, it shouldve broken the link, for the former joint account, with his customer 
records. It didnt do that. As a result, when Ms A asked for a replacement card in May 2020, 
the branch representative, in error, issued a replacement card on the account which was 
now a sole account in her mothers name.
This was clearly an error. Barclays acknowledged that. Theres been no suggestion that 
because the sole account was still linked to Mr Cs customer records any previous cards had 
been issued, in error, on the sole account. And, it is the case that the error was quickly 
spotted by the sole account holder, after the payment was taken from that account. 
Ms A says, on behalf of Mr C, that a financial institution shouldnt have mistakenly allowed 
her to access the sole account without the necessary permission. That is correct. A financial 
institution is required only to permit an account to be accessed by an authorised person. And 
where, for example. theres been an unauthorised payment from an account, its required to 
immediately refund that amount to the account. But, when a financial institution makes a 
mistake, as happened here, its not our role to fine or punish it. We look at the actions it took 
to try to put things right to see if its acted fairly and reasonably.
Ive thought about how Barclays dealt with Mr Cs account when the matter was brought to 
its attention. It refunded the payment to the sole account owner. As Ive said above, it was 
obliged to do that. But I can see that it didnt debit Mr Cs account with the amount of the 
payment thatd been debited to the sole account. It couldve sought to do that  given that 
goods were received against the payment thatd been made. I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably when it didnt seek to debit his account.
Barclays blocked the card so that it couldnt be used again. And, it issued a replacement 
card  for Mr Cs account  to Ms A. Barclays also says it has amended its records so that 
the sole account is no longer linked to Mr Cs customer records. So, this error should not 
happen again.
Having looked at the actions Barclays has taken here, I agree with our investigator when he 
says Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably. Ms A has also confirmed that Mr C didnt 
suffer any inconvenience as a result of what happened. So, I dont think Barclays should 
have to do anything more.
Ms A has also raised issues about breaches of data protection legislation. She says she was 
given information about Mr Cs account and her mothers account without having to answer 
any security questions. And, she says she wasnt asked for any identification when she 
visited the branch.  As Ive mentioned above, Ms A isnt an eligible complainant under our Rules, so I cant deal with her concerns here. I also cant consider in this decision any 
concerns about her mothers account. As I said above, that would have to be dealt with 
separately. But Ive thought about the impact on Mr C.
Barclays disputes what Ms A has said. It says she wasnt given any personal data about Mr 
Cs account when she called at the branch to complain. It says it didnt record the telephone 
conversations between Ms A and the branch manager. But it says Ms A was asked security 
questions at the start of the telephone conversations. Because theres no call recordings, I 
dont have any evidence to support what either Barclays or Ms A has said here. 
But, having considered everything, I can see that Mr C gave Ms A authority to operate his 
accounts. Hed done that in 2016. And he hasnt said that because Ms A was given access 
to his information after she raised the complaint it caused any issues for him. So, on 
balance, Im not persuaded hes experienced any distress or inconvenience as a result of the 
conversations that took place between Barclays and Ms A.
If Mr C or Ms A remain concerned about data protection issues they can refer these matters 
to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) so that it can consider what Ms A has said 
about breaches of data protection legislation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman