DRN-3020054
The complaint
Mrs S complains about a loan provided to her by UK Credit limited, (UK Credit) which she 
says was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs S was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit. She took the loan out in July 2018 for £7500 
and was due to repay it in 60 monthly instalments. The repayments were for around £262 
and the total that she would have to repay was around £15,660. There is an amount that is 
outstanding.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint. He thought that UK Credit carried out 
sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that there wasnt anything in the 
information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to Mrs S. Our investigator didnt 
think UK Credit had been wrong to provide Mrs S with the loan.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she still felt UK Credit unfairly 
provided her with a loan.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
General principles and questions I need to think about when deciding whether to uphold Mrs 
Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out.
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend.
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total cost 
of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mrs S and thought carefully about the following key questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
what checks did UK Credit do?
UK Credit gathered some information from Mrs S before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income and verified this by looking at a payslip. It then asked Mrs S how much 
she was paying towards housing and used Office of National Statistics data to estimate her 
living costs. It then added an amount that Mrs S was paying towards creditors and then this 
loan repayment. And it did a credit check to assess how much she was already repaying to 
other creditors.
Mrs S told it she received £2943 in income a month. UK Credit told us that it was satisfied 
that Mrs S received this after it verified her information. Mrs S then told it she paid £300 
towards housing costs as well as around £51 to repay historic defaults. It then worked out 
that she would have living costs of £704. It then added this loan repayment.
UK Credit worked out that this left Mrs S with disposable income which meant that the 
monthly contractual instalments of around £262 that she had signed up to make on this loan 
should have been affordable for her.
did UK Credit do proportionate checks?Ive carefully considered whether the information that UK Credit gathered at the time should 
reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I dont think that the information UK 
Credit had collected about Mrs Ss financial situation was enough to prompt a reasonable 
lender to think it needed to do further or more in-depth checking. 
The credit report that UK Credit acquired showed that Mrs S hadnt taken on any credit 
commitments. She did have some historic defaults and I can see that UK Credit discussed 
these with her and accepted the reasons she gave for this.  
So, I think its fair to say that UK Credit could see that Mrs S had some adverse information 
on her credit file. But it did discuss this with Mrs S and given the type of lending, I think a 
lender would reasonably expect to see some adverse information on its customers credit 
history. And, looked at overall on what it had in front of it, I think it would have been fair for 
UK Credit to have considered that Mrs S was managing her finances well since these 
defaults had occurred.
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for UK Credit to consider 
that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Mrs S. But Ive needed to see 
overall whether UK Credit made a fair lending decision based on what it had in front of it, 
and from what I have seen, I think it did.
I think the checks that UK Credit carried out before lending to Mrs S were reasonable and 
proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for UK Credit to have relied on 
the information that Mrs S provided and what it found in its checks - and this was enough to 
enable UK Credit to gain a reasonable understanding of her financial situation and see that 
Mrs S appeared to be managing her money without any significant payment problems. I 
dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements were required.
I dont think there was anything in the information that UK Credit gathered at the time which 
should have caused the lender any additional concerns about Mrs S s financial position 
when she applied for the loan or that ought reasonably to have led UK Credit to the 
conclusion that her loan application should be declined.
So, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold her irresponsible lending complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against
UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman