DRN-4004867
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) set up its business loan in the name of another company. 
One of Cs directors, Mr P, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
C was incorporated in March 2019. Its two owners and directors, Mr P and Ms M, also own a 
second company that is of relevance to the issues in this complaint. Ill refer to this second 
company as J.
Prior to Cs incorporation, the directors approached NatWest with a view to taking out a loan 
to fund Cs purchase of a property. A loan was agreed in principle in February 2019, with the 
purchase scheduled for completion in late April 2019. 
On receipt of the agreement for a £300,000 loan from NatWest in mid-April 2019, Cs 
directors identified a number of errors. Most notably, the agreement stated that the borrower 
would be J rather than C. The directors made a number of amendments to the agreement by 
hand  including the proposed term, monthly repayment amount and provider of a 
debenture  and returned it to the bank.
NatWest issued a revised agreement, but it still named J as the borrower and there were still 
areas of dispute. By this time, the scheduled completion date was imminent. The relationship 
manager dealing with Cs application wrote to the company to offer some reassurance as to 
the core terms of the agreement  including that the loan term and repayments would be as 
Cs directors expected, and that the only security taken for the loan would be charges over 
the purchase property and a second property owned by J.
Pressed for time, Cs directors signed the agreement and the purchase was completed on 
29 April 2019. So while it was C that had purchased the property, the loan with NatWest was 
in Js name. The directors also identified shortly after completion that NatWest had 
registered a debenture against J by way of security for the loan, to which they say they didnt 
agree or sign any paperwork. 
Recognising that the loan shouldve been provided in Cs name rather than Js, NatWest 
offered to correct the position. It ultimately agreed to restructure the loan by providing a 
£160,000 loan to C and a £140,000 loan to J. This was only concluded some time later, in 
February 2022. 
NatWest agreed to refund all interest applied under the original loan, as well as the charges 
it had applied for its arrangement. It didnt charge any fees for the replacement loans, which 
it also says were offered at a better interest rate than that of the original loan. The bank has 
also paid C compensation of £850 for the inconvenience caused by the remedial action. And 
its covered other associated costs in rectifying matters, including those relating to court 
action required for the removal of the debenture against J.
Mr P doesnt think that NatWest has yet done enough to put matters right, so he referred the 
matter to us. In summary, he says:
The original loan was mis-sold and the debenture was obtained fraudulently. For the 
latter, he is seeking an additional compensation payment of £2,500 for what he 
describes as a breach of the banks duty of care and a breach of trust. 
It has been a long and challenging process to rectify matters, including the court 
action to remove the debenture. It took over two years to resolve the issues with the 
loan, with delays on NatWests part. He would like the bank to issue a formal apology 
for the loss and distress it has caused.
Cs directors were sworn at and spoken to disrespectfully on several occasions by 
members of NatWests staff in conversations about resolving the matter. He is 
seeking a further compensation payment of £1,000 for the distress this caused.
Cs directors spent over 240 hours of time in sorting things out, for which they are 
seeking reimbursement at their hourly rates  amounting to a sum in excess of 
£17,000.
Cs complaint has been reviewed by one of our investigators, who didnt recommend that 
NatWest take any further action. Noting that there was no dispute that the bank had made 
errors, he thought the steps it had taken to put things right represented a fair resolution. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issuance of the loan to J, rather than C
NatWest made a significant error in issuing the loan agreement in Js name rather than Cs. 
It was clear to the bank from the outset that the loan was to support a purchase being made 
by C, and that the intention of the companys directors was for that loan to be in Cs name. 
Cs directors notified NatWest of this error on receipt of the paperwork, with the bank having 
sufficient time  in my view  to take corrective action. It didnt, and while paperwork was 
reissued, it still named J as the borrower. 
The bank has suggested that C should take some responsibility for what followed, as they 
proceeded to sign the agreement in the knowledge that it contained this error. Cs directors 
could, it is argued, have mitigated the impact of this mistake by taking other action. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable for C to have proceeded in the circumstances. They had an 
imminent deadline for completion and not proceeding with the purchase as agreed could 
also have had significant consequences. 
NatWest has addressed the fundamental issue of J being the borrower by way of the 
replacement loans issued to C and J. It seems that the bank was unwilling to lend the full 
£300,000 to C, but C hasnt raised any objection to the structure of the lending, so this 
appears to be a satisfactory way forward.
The replacement loans were set up at no cost to C, with NatWest having waived any of the 
usual arrangement fees that would have applied and covered all the legal fees. So the restructuring of the loan hasnt led to C incurring any additional costs. And the bank also 
reimbursed the arrangement fees charged in setting up the original loan. 
It took NatWest far longer than ought to have been necessary to arrange the restructure. 
The incorrect loan was set up in April 2019 (with the bank being aware of the problem at the 
time), and the restructure was only completed in February 2022. That hasnt led to C 
incurring any additional costs in respect of the loan than it would otherwise have done. On 
the contrary, NatWest didnt charge any interest under the original loan agreement  
meaning that C had the benefit of the £300,000 loan without paying any interest for almost 
three years (when, under the terms of the agreement, this wouldve cost the company 
around £1,000 a month). So, in that respect, C is in a far better position than it otherwise 
wouldve been. Further, the replacement loans were subject to a lower interest rate, at least 
initially  being at a fixed rate of 3.24% for the first five years, compared to 3.5% above the 
Bank of England base rate under the originally-agreed terms.
I recognise that it is not just direct financial losses that will have impacted C. Its directors 
have had to spend a lot of time and effort on resolving the matter with NatWest, having to 
engage in substantial additional correspondence, meetings and legal formalities. Mr P has 
compiled a claim for what he calls management costs, being the time spent by the directors 
dealing with these issues  which he estimates to be 240 hours  at their respective hourly 
rates. 
Its hard for me to verify whether Mr Ps estimate of time spent is wholly accurate, but it 
doesnt look patently unreasonable. However, we dont typically award compensation based 
on units of time or a complainants hourly rate  rather, we look at the overall impact that the 
financial businesss mistake had. I dont think it would be appropriate to deviate from that 
approach here. Ive not seen that the time Cs directors had to spend on the matter caused 
them a loss of business elsewhere, and so I dont think it would be fair to compensate them 
for dealing with this matter at the rates they may charge in their fields of expertise. 
I can see why Mr P doesnt think the £850 that NatWest paid to compensate C for the 
inconvenience is sufficient. C was put to some considerable trouble in sorting things out, and 
had no other offer been made then I would likely be minded to make an additional award. 
However, I think it is fair to take into account the betterment of Cs position overall from the 
steps that NatWest has taken  most notably, that the company wasnt required to pay any 
of the interest that would otherwise have been payable on the loan for almost three years. 
That significant saving alone  of around £30,000  far outweighs any additional amount I 
might otherwise have awarded to compensate C for the inconvenience it was caused by the 
banks errors.
Lastly on this point, I note that Mr P believes that  in refusing to pay Cs management 
costs  NatWest is reneging on its promise to indemnify the companies for all costs incurred 
in the process. The bank didnt describe in any detail what this might or might not cover. But 
it is debatable as to whether the management costs were in fact a cost to C at all, given 
they wont actually have had to make any payments to their directors (rather, they are being 
claimed as a loss of opportunity). Either way, I dont think this alone is sufficient for me to 
require that NatWest pay this aspect of Cs claim in light of all Ive said above.
I understand Mr P is seeking what he calls a formal apology from NatWest for the errors 
and the impact theyve had on C. Ive seen that the bank has already apologised on a 
number of occasions, most notably in its response of 12 December 2019. NatWest has 
reiterated its apology in dialogue with our Service about the matter. The bank has said it is 
willing to issue a further apology in light of Mr Ps requests, which is as much as I could 
reasonably ask of it. I leave it to the bank to decide how best to convey its apologies to C.The registration of the debenture against J
In addition to the issuance of the loan to J rather than C, NatWest erroneously registered a 
debenture against J by way of security for the original loan.
That strikes me as more of a matter for J to raise as a complaint, being the company that 
was affected by it. I couldnt award any compensation to J through this complaint for any 
impact that it may have been caused by this error. Most notably, the obtaining of the court 
order and remediation of records filed with Companies House were matters that could only 
have been dealt with by J. Even though it would still have been Mr P and/or Ms M that were 
dealing with the matter, they wouldve been doing so in their capacity as Js directors rather 
than Cs. 
I dont see any basis on which to award any additional compensation to C in consideration of 
the issues relating to the debenture. Mr P is seeking £2,500 on the basis that he considers 
the debenture to have been obtained fraudulently, thereby representing a breach both of 
trust and the banks duty of care. We dont calculate compensation by reference to the error 
but to the impact. I cant see that C was impacted by the registration of the debenture 
against J such that a further award would be appropriate.
Disrespectful communication with Cs directors
Mr P says that two members of the banks staff used inappropriate language and gestures 
during conversations held in May and June 2019. He says these concerns werent properly 
addressed by the bank.
While I dont agree that no action was taken, I can understand why Mr P is frustrated and 
sees the matter as unresolved. In its letter of 4 May 2021, NatWest said that it had referred 
Mr Ps comments to the relevant team to investigate  but that the details of that 
investigation and outcome would be kept confidential. I can see why Mr P wouldve wanted 
the bank to reach a view on what happened and to share that with him. It did, however, 
apologise for the way Mr P was made to feel on these occasions.
There is limited evidence for me to assess what happened during these interactions, but 
ultimately I have little reason to doubt what Mr P has said  especially as he has been 
consistent in his recollections throughout the course of the matter. Quite obviously, it was 
wholly inappropriate for any member of the banks staff to have used abusive and offensive 
language when speaking with Mr P and Ms M. 
However, I cant make a further award to Mr P and/or Ms M in their capacity as individuals 
for any distress this might understandably have caused them. Under our rules, the eligible 
complainant here is C  so it is only C to whom I can make an award. And as C is a limited 
company, it cant suffer distress or upset. So even accepting what Mr P has told us about 
these incidents, there is no basis on which I can require NatWest to pay any additional 
compensation. 
In closing, I would underline that there were errors of some magnitude on NatWests part in 
how it processed the original loan and these have had a significant impact on C. I hope that 
my findings  in focusing more on whether NatWest needs to do anything more to put things 
right  isnt read as downplaying either of these points. It is just that the question for me to 
decide here has, primarily, been whether or not the settlement that NatWest has already 
implemented is a fair way to resolve Cs complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I think it 
is  and so, on that basis, Im not upholding the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman