DRN-2906428
The complaint
Mr W is complaining I Go 4 Ltd (IGO4) cancelled his car insurance policy and wouldnt 
subsequently reinstate it.
What happened
Mr W took out a car insurance policy through IGO4  a broker. The insurer required him to 
pay an annual premium and Mr W needed to pay this at the start of the policy. Mr W wanted 
to pay for the policy through monthly instalments. To enable him to do so, he took out a 
finance agreement with a third-party finance provider  who I shall refer to as C. C paid the 
annual premium on Mr Ws behalf and Mr W agreed in return to repay this in line with the 
terms of the finance agreement. 
However Mr W later got into financial difficulties as he was unable to work due to the impact 
caused by Covid-19. As a result he missed a number of payments on his finance agreement 
 namely in May, July, August, October and November 2020.
On 30 November 2020 IGO4 wrote to Mr W to say his monthly payment to C had failed. So it 
said it would cancel the insurance policy if it didnt hear from him by 7 December 2020. Mr W 
didnt contact either IGO4 or C by then. So C terminated Mr Ws finance agreement and 
IGO4 cancelled his insurance policy. Mr W then called IGO4 back and asked if it would 
reinstate the insurance policy if he paid the arrears that day. IGO4 contacted C who 
confirmed it would reactivate the finance agreement if Mr W made the payment that day. 
IGO4 explained this to Mr W, but said he needed to call IGO4 back after making the 
payment so it could reinstate the insurance policy. Mr W made the payment but didnt call 
IGO4 back.
Mr W contacted IGO4 again on 14 December 2020 and asked it to reinstate the insurance 
policy, but it said it wouldnt do so. Mr W didnt think IGO4 was treating him fairly so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint for two reasons:
1. She thought IGO4 acted too quickly in cancelling the insurance policy; and
2. She thought it should have pro-actively contacted C to find out if Mr W had made the 
payment.
So she said IGO4 should treat the policy as being cancelled by consumer and also pay 
Mr W £150 in compensation.
IGO4 didnt agree with the investigators opinion. It said it had gone to great lengths over the 
course of the insurance policy to help Mr W, so it didnt agree it had treated him unfairly. It 
also said some responsibility needed to rest with Mr W as well for not calling back after he 
made the payment. 
Mr W accepted the investigators opinion.
As IGO4 didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that IGO4 was acting in two capacities in this matter. It acted as an 
insurance broker to arrange and administer the insurance policy. It also acted as a credit 
broker to arrange the finance agreement to enable Mr W to pay the insurance premium in 
monthly instalments. It was, ultimately, Cs responsibility  as the finance provider  to 
consider Mr Ws ability to keep up with his monthly finance payments. It was also Cs 
responsibility to assist Mr W if he came into financial difficulties and couldnt keep up with his 
monthly payments.
The terms of Mr Ws insurance policy set out that IGO4 could cancel the policy if he missed 
a payment on his finance agreement. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably. Generally speaking, I dont think its fair for an insurer or broker to look to cancel 
an insurance policy as soon as a payment is missed. A finance provider can ask for an 
insurance policy to be cancelled as a means to recover outstanding arrears on the finance 
agreement. But cancellation can have severe implications on a consumer, as it invariably 
results in charges being incurred due to the cancellation. It can also lead to further difficulties 
in getting replacement insurance. This is likely to then put the consumer in a worse position 
than they were in before the cancellation. And this doesnt seem in keeping with regulatory 
requirements to treat customers fairly. Further to this industry regulations sets out a number 
of options finance providers should consider where a consumer is in financial difficulties. I 
think cancellation should be a last resort and only considered after other avenues had been 
explored.
I recognise Mr W had missed a number of payments over the course of his finance 
agreement. But I think it would have been fairer for IGO4 to contact Mr W setting out that his 
latest direct debit payment hadnt gone through and ask him to make swift arrangements to 
make the payment and give him a number of days to do so. If the consumer doesnt make 
the payment in that time or make contact to ask for financial assistance, then it may become 
fair to start the cancellation procedure.
In this case, the insurance policy was cancelled eight days after IGO4 was notified of the 
missed payment. This doesnt feel fair to me. Mr Ws credit agreement was reinstated on 
8 December 2020. I dont think IGO4 would have cancelled his insurance policy if it had 
given Mr W a fairer period of time to make the payment. So I think hes lost out as a result of 
whats happened.
I do agree with IGO4 that Mr W has to take a degree of responsibility in respect to what 
happened here. IGO4s call handler did set out a number of times that Mr W needed to call 
back after making the payment to get the policy reinstated. He was aware he needed to do 
so, but he didnt. However I think the root cause of the policys cancellation is that IGO4 
didnt give Mr W a reasonable period of time to pay the missed payment.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require I Go 4 Ltd to do the following to put things right:
1. Write to Mr W to confirm it shouldnt have cancelled the insurance policy and say he 
doesnt need to disclose the cancellation to his future insurers; and
2. Pay Mr W £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman