DRN-3130205
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HSBC Bank Uk Plc allowed him to increase his overdraft limit when he 
says he was struggling financially. Mr H is being represented in his complaint by his wife, 
Mrs H. 
What happened
Mr H had an overdraft limit of £1,000 on his current account with HSBC. In June 2019 he 
applied online to increase that limit to £2,000, after a conversation with HSBC the overdraft 
limit increase was agreed. 
In February 2020, Mrs H (acting on Mr Hs behalf) complained to HSBC that it should not 
have increased Mr Hs overdraft limit as he was already struggling financially, and the 
increased lending made his situation worse. HSBC ultimately did not agree that it had done 
anything wrong. It said that Mr H had passed its checks for the amount of lending he had 
requested. Mrs H remained unhappy and so referred Mr Hs complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns and also didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. Mrs H, on behalf of Mr H, disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
HSBC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
And where we do find that a lender has lent responsibly, that lender still wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably if it applied any interest, fees and charges to an account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware that 
the account holder was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive also considered whether 
there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr H fairly and reasonably.
Mrs H says that Mr Hs account was already showing signs of difficulty before the new 
overdraft limit was agreed, as once his bills had been paid his account was then in an 
overdrawn position for the majority of every month, and he was incurring overdraft charges 
and interest. But while its fair to say that Mr H was using his overdraft regularly it is also 
clear that funds were going into the account which regularly reduced the outstanding 
balance and brought it into credit, even if only for a day or two each month. 
Im also mindful that when Mr H spoke to HSBC about the overdraft limit increase before it 
was approved, he told HSBC that from June 2019 he would no longer be making payments 
towards a holiday he had booked and so would be able to use the money that freed up each 
month to reduce the overdraft limit. So with this in mind, and given the credits going into the 
accounts, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to conclude Mr H would be able to 
repay the additional funds within a reasonable period of time. This means that I dont agree 
HSBC increased Mr Hs overdraft limit unfairly or irresponsibly. 
I also dont think that HSBC treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably regarding any financial 
difficulties he may have had at the time. I say this because having looked at Mr Hs 
statements I cant see anything to suggest that HSBC ought to have realised he might have 
been experiencing financial difficulty, it was rare for him to use the full extent of his available 
overdraft and he regularly repaid the overdrawn balance. There was also no sign of regular 
returned items or of him going over his arranged overdraft limit. I accept that this doesnt 
mean that Mr H wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But it does mean there wasnt 
anything in the transactions in themselves which I think ought to have alerted HSBC to any 
potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for HSBC to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC treated Mr H unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman