DRN-3817158
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the service hes received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, including that Barclays reduced the credit limit on his account.
What happened
Mr O has a Barclays credit account which had a credit limit of £5,500. Mr O received notice 
from Barclays that the credit limit on his account would be reduced to £1,150. Mr O wasnt 
happy about this, or with the service he received from Barclays when he spoke with them 
about the credit limit reduction, and so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Os complaint. They explained that they retained the right to reduce a 
credit limit on an account if they saw fit, and so they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Os 
complaint. However, Barclays did accept that Mr O hadnt received a reasonable standard of 
service when hed contacted them about the issue, and they apologised to Mr O for this and 
made a payment of £25 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset he incurred. Mr O 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Mr O by reducing the credit limit on the account. However, they didnt feel 
the £25 compensation that Barclays had paid Mr O went far enough in regard to the service 
issues hed encountered, and so they recommended that Barclays should pay a further £50 
to Mr O in this regard.
Barclays accepted the recommendation put forwards by our investigator. However, Mr O 
remained dissatisfied, especially as Barclays had reduced the credit limit on his account 
even further. So, the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr O might be upset at learning that Barclays had taken the decision to 
reduce the credit limit on his account. However, it must be acknowledged that a credit limit 
isnt a right that an account holder such as Mr O has, but rather is provided by a credit 
provider  in this case Barclays  at the continuing discretion of that credit provider.
Its for this reason that the terms and conditions of credit accounts include the provision that 
the credit provider can reduce the credit limit on an account. And I note that the terms and 
conditions of the Barclays credit account in question include such a provision as follows:
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, 
we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be 
appropriate, (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days' notice). We 
won't reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any 
transactions authorised but not yet charged to your account.
Im aware that Mr O feels that Barclays havent provided him with an acceptable reason as 
to why theyve taken the decision to reduce the credit limit on his account. I can appreciate 
Mr Os frustration here, but credit providers arent generally expected to provide a detailed 
account of exactly why theyve made such a decision to an account holder. 
One reason for this is because if a credit provider were to provide such an explanation, they 
would in effect be explaining how their creditworthiness and affordability assessments work. 
And if such information were released into the public domain, then it could be the case that 
this information could potentially be used by future credit applicants to try to circumnavigate 
the creditworthiness and affordability checks that the credit provider has in place.
However, as explained, I do appreciate Mr Os frustration at not being provided a clear 
explanation by Barclays as to why theyve reduced the credit limit on his account. As such, 
Ive contacted Barclays whove provided their detailed reasoning for the credit limit reduction 
to this service. And while Im not at liberty to disclose this information to Mr O  for the 
reasons outlined above  I can confirm that having reviewed and considered Barclays 
explanation that I am satisfied that Barclays have acted reasonably and in accordance with 
their terms and that they havent acted unfairly towards Mr O by reducing the credit limit on 
his account as they have. I hope that it will provide some comfort to Mr O to know that an 
independent and impartial third party has assessed Barclays reasoning on his behalf.
Mr O is also unhappy that, after the initial reduction of the credit limit on his account, that 
Barclays have subsequently reduced the credit limit even further. Again, I can appreciate 
how this might be upsetting for Mr O, but as explained above, Barclays are entitled to reduce 
the credit limit to whatever amount they see fit, so long as they do so in accordance with a 
fair reasoning  which, as per the paragraph above, Im satisfied that theyve done.
Notably, Barclays terms and conditions dont allow them to reduce the credit limit on an 
account to a level below the present balance of that account. This means that if Barclays 
intend to reduce the credit limit of an account to a certain amount, but the balance of the 
account is more than their intended credit limit level, then they can only lower the credit limit 
to the intended amount in stages, as allowed by the balance of the account. This is whats 
happened in this instance, and while I can appreciate that Mr O may be unhappy with this, 
given that Barclays actions are designed to ensure that his account isnt put into a position 
where the balance exceeds the credit limit, I dont feel that its unfair. 
All of which means that, while I acknowledge that Mr O may not be happy with how events 
have transpired here, I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
him in regard to the reduction of the credit limit on his account as he contends. This is 
because, as explained, Mr O has no right to a credit limit at a set amount, but rather is 
given a credit limit at the discretion of Barclays, which they are entitled to reduce.
However, in regard to the service aspects of Mr Os complaint, I also dont feel that the £25 
compensation that Barclays have paid to Mr O is a fair compensation amount in this 
instance, given the upset and inconvenience Mr O has incurred because of them. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but I feel that a payment of a further £50 
compensation here  as recommended by our investigator and which Barclays have 
previously agreed to pay  would provide a more reasonable level of compensation for the 
impact that the service issues Mr O has experienced has had on him. 
And so, my final decision will be that Im upholding this complaint in Mr Os favour on this 
limited basis only and instructing Barclays to make a further payment of £50 to Mr O, if they 
havent already done so.I realise this may not be the outcome Mr O was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £50 to Mr O if they havent already done so, so that the 
total compensation amount payable is increased to £75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman