DRN-4303106
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited decided to stop funding his mental health 
treatment.
What happened
Mr C was receiving in-patient mental health treatment. Aviva contacted Mr C to say that they 
would no longer be covering this treatment. They then agreed to extend cover as this hadnt 
been communicated correctly to Mr Cs treating team.
Mr C continued to receive in-patient care and Aviva authorised 20 sessions of therapy. He 
was then told that the policy only provided short term cover and so no further day-patient 
cover would be provided. Aviva later told Mr C hed need to complete all of the therapy 
sessions by the end of December 2022, having previously told him there was no deadline.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Cs complaint. He didnt 
think Aviva had acted fairly when they decided to stop paying the claim. He also didnt think 
it was fair for Mr C to have been told that there was no time limit and then have a time limit 
imposed. He thought this had a significant impact on Mr C at a time when he was very 
unwell. He recommended Aviva pay £750 compensation, arrange for an independent 
assessment of Mr Cs medical treatment and withdraw the time limit on Mr Cs funding.
There was a lot of correspondence between the parties and ultimately Aviva accepted the 
investigators findings. As of April 2023 Aviva was continuing to fund Mr Cs treatment in full, 
and an independent assessment of Mr Cs case has also now taken place. The outcome of 
that assessment does not form part of this complaint.
However, Mr C asked an ombudsman to review his complaint as he didnt think the 
compensation fairly reflected the impact on him. He said that his case appeared more similar 
to the cases outlined on the Financial Ombudsman Services website which were of the 
highest severity. As Mr C didnt think the compensation our investigator recommended is fair 
the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
Mr C highlighted some telephone calls that he wanted the ombudsman to listen to which he 
said would demonstrate the impact on him. I asked Aviva to provide copies of the calls for 
the 22 and 23 2022 February and listened to them, including a call with a manager which 
Mr C particularly highlighted as having caused him distress.
In August 2023 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. I said: 
Im aware that Mr C has had continued contact with Aviva in relation to the status of 
his ongoing treatment. My decision will focus on the impact of Avivas decision to 
stop paying for treatment for in-patient care and their decision to place a time limit on 
further therapy sessions theyd agreed to cover. Those were the key points 
considered by our investigator when Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. If Mr C is unhappy with whats happened since, including the outcome of the 
independent assessment, hell need to make a further complaint to Aviva.
Ive taken into account all of the information and evidence Ive been provided with. 
Aviva and Mr C have provided a lot of information. But I wont comment on every 
point theyve raised, and Ive focused on the key points which are relevant to my 
decision. If I dont comment on a particular piece of evidence or information, its not 
because Ive overlooked it or ignored it.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service. I dont 
need to comment on each argument to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. Aviva accepted the claim and were making 
payment for Mr Cs treatment. Aviva ultimately accepted our investigators findings 
that the decision to stop making payment was unreasonable and that it wasnt 
reasonable to have placed a deadline on the remaining therapy treatment. So, those 
points are no longer in dispute. That means the key issue for me to decide is whether 
£750 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
Im intending to increase the compensation our investigator awarded and award a 
total of £3000 compensation for the reasons Ill explain.
Its accepted by Aviva that this original decision to time limit Mr Cs treatment in 
February 2022 was based on a misinterpretation of the chronic exclusion clause. 
According to the policy terms Avivas clinicians did not have the discretion to make a 
judgement on the clinical appropriateness of Mr Cs treatment. Thats important to 
note in the context of the communication that took place around that time as the 
distress caused to Mr C by this decision was entirely avoidable, had the situation 
been correctly handled in line with the policy terms.
Mr C has a long and complex history of mental health problems with a significant 
history of suicidal ideations. Any decision to stop funding ought to have been clearly 
communicated to Mr C directly and with careful consideration about the impact it 
would have on him. That didnt happen in this case as Mr C wasnt even told by Aviva 
that there was a decision to stop his funding.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr C and Aviva on 22 and 23 February 2022. The 
impact of Avivas decision on Mr C is clear  he was clearly shocked, frustrated, and 
worried by the decision to stop the funding. This decision come as a total shock to 
him because hed learned of it from his healthcare provider.
I think the distress of finding out about funding being stopped was further 
exacerbated by how Mr Cs concerns were handled. And, I think its important to bear 
in mind its now accepted that the relevant term wasnt correctly interpreted. On 22 
February Mr C was told six days was enough time for NHS treatment to be arranged 
by someone who didnt have an in-depth understanding of his case and had just read 
through some of the notes on his file during the call.
During a call on 23 February Mr C was told his healthcare provider should have been 
managing the end of his in-patient care. This call caused him particular distress, and 
this is evident from the contents of the call  it ended by Mr C shouting that he wasnt 
reassured and wanted to now take his life. There is a noticeable difference between 
how Mr C presented in the calls on 22 February and the calls the next day which, I 
think, demonstrates what Mr C has described himself as him crashing following the news that funding had been stopped.
I also dont think the notice Aviva gave Mr C was reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case, which added to Mr Cs distress. Initially Mr C was told he had six days 
before funding would end. A short extension was later given when Aviva 
acknowledged Mr C hadnt been told of the decision to stop funding. I think this 
added to Mr Cs distress because, not only was he told he was going to lose funding, 
he was also given very little time to make alternative arrangements. As Mr C was 
given very little time to sort out alternative treatment, I think this added to the 
pressure he was feeling at an already difficult time.
All of this was further compounded by the decision to time limit Mr Cs ongoing 
treatment which was based on the clinical appropriateness of Mr Cs treatment in 
September 2022. But there was no clear explanation about why this decision was 
taken at the time. And, again, I dont think this course of action fairly acknowledged 
the complexity of Mr Cs case or what had recently happened during the handling of 
his claim. Furthermore, Mr C had previously been told by Aviva in April 2022 that this 
treatment wouldnt be time limited. So, bearing in mind the complexity of Mr Cs case 
and the nature of his mental health condition, I think this caused further distress and 
inconvenience to Mr C.
Mr C has set out in detail how Avivas decisions have impacted him. Hes explained 
that its had a severe impact on his mental health. Thats included delaying and 
worsening his psychological recovery and causing re-traumatisation. He said that the 
constant strain, uncertainty and financial pressures have created significant 
disruptions and strained relationships within his family. He also highlighted that 
Avivas actions have delayed his ability to return to work, causing a significant decline 
in his earnings and long-term financial stability.
The examples on our website which Mr C referred to include an award made for 
extreme impact, where an award of over £5000 was made. No two cases are the 
same, and so Ive considered the circumstances of this complaint and the impact on 
Mr C.
Ive considered the contents of all the medical reports Mr C has provided. They 
include a report from his consultant from June 2022, which is written shortly after the 
inpatient treatment was stopped, and shortly before the decision to time limit Mr Cs 
ongoing therapy was taken. So, I think its a helpful insight into Mr Cs mental state at 
the relevant time. It confirms his diagnosis of severe depression and that his 
treatment plan includes pharmacological and therapeutic intervention. It says:
He is currently struggling with multiple stressors which have impacted on his 
mental health with exacerbation of his symptoms of depression and 
associated heightened levels of anxiety.
Mr C would have benefitted from further intensive therapeutic input through 
the day-care therapy programme but unfortunately, funding was declined at 
that stage and further risk management and support is through his GP and 
local crisis team.
Ive thought about the duration of the impact on Mr C. Its clear that, at the very least, 
this spanned from February until September 2022. Im satisfied the impact was 
ongoing after September 2022 as Mr C was distressed by the decision to limit benefit 
at that point. I also think its reasonable, in the circumstances of this case, to 
conclude it has caused Mr C ongoing distress and had an impact on his ongoing mental health and recovery.
Ive also considered that Aviva have continued to fund Mr Cs treatment into 2023 
and have settled the relevant outstanding invoices. As Ive outlined above Aviva has 
continued to assess the claim following our investigators recommendation but thats 
not something Im addressing in this decision.
I think Avivas actions in the handling of the claim caused distress, inconvenience, 
pain and suffering. It resulted in a severe and serious short impact, particularly in 
February 2022 and again in September 2022. But I also think there has been an 
ongoing longer term impact since February 2022 which has continued. I think its 
most likely this has impacted on Mr Cs health, in particular Mr Cs mental health. 
Furthermore, I think Aviva caused Mr C sustained distress which negatively affected 
his health, which has impacted on his daily life over a period of several months. I can 
understand that, in impacting Mr Cs mental health and recovery, this is also likely to 
have impacted Mr Cs relationships and his plans to return to work.
Having taken all of the above into account Im intending to award Mr C £3000 to 
reflect the substantial and sustained distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering 
caused.
My provisional decision
Im intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Aviva to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision and clarified theyd paid Mr C £750 following our 
investigators recommendation. Mr C accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision theres no reason for me to reach a 
different conclusion about the outcome of this complaint. For the reasons outlined above, 
and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Putting things right
I direct Aviva to pay Mr C a total of £3000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This 
includes the £750 compensation already paid following the investigators recommendation.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman