DRN-3658145
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain theyve paid Commitments Protection Ltd (CPL) to pursue a mis-
sold mortgage claim that they say CPL would have known wouldnt be successful.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr T and Mrs T said they spoke to CPL and said they were told theyd a strong 
case to make a claim for the mis-selling of their mortgage product. They said they were 
persuaded to undergo a Full Personal Review. Mr T and Mrs T made clear that theirs was a 
split mortgage, part repayment part interest only. They said they made several payments to 
CPL for their claim. In July 2020 Mr T and Mrs T asked CPL for an update as they hadnt 
heard anything. And they were told that their claim couldnt go ahead as it wasnt suitable for 
litigation because it was a split mortgage. Mr T and Mrs T complained to CPL.
CPL said that the claim didnt go ahead not only because it wasnt an interest only mortgage 
but because only Mr T had signed the letter of authority (LoA). CPL asked Mrs T to sign a 
LoA. They also said theyd told Mr T and Mrs T when they offered their services that there 
wasnt a guarantee that their claim would be accepted by the solicitors.
Mr T and Mrs T werent happy with the response from CPL and referred their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator said Mr T and Mrs T wouldnt have purchased the Full Personal Review if 
theyd been made aware that it was likely the claim wouldnt have been successful. He said 
CPL should refund Mr T and Mrs T all the fees theyd paid  with 8% simple interest for the 
time theyve been out of pocket. And to pay Mr T and Mrs T £200 in compensation for 
leading them to believe theyd receive compensation.
CPL havent responded to our investigators outcome so Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint has 
been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T and Mrs T have shown that they made several payments to CPL. In September 2017, a 
payment of £714, in October 2018 a payment of £354, in January 2019 a payment of £474, 
in March 2019 a payment of £804 and in May 2020 a payment of £357.60, in total £2,703.60.
What I need to determine is what Mr T and Mrs T understood these payments to be for and 
whether CPL had been fair and reasonable in their actions with them.
CPL has said that their initial agreement is for a Full Financial Review to be done.  
Following which there is a Mortgage Review assessment, with a report that
provides an opinion of the likely success of a claim. . And their customers then have the 
choice whether to pursue a claim. And if they do, an agreement for a solicitor to consider the 
likely success of such a claim is based on a No Win No Fee.
I can see that CPLs agent told Mr T and Mrs T in August 2017 that they had a strong case, 
and the receipt for the first payment Mr T and Mrs T made was for £714 and noted 
mortgage review. 
Ive seen the Mortgage Review Assessment Report produced for Mr T and Mrs T. The report 
gives them a B/C status. Further in the report I can see that the requirements under B/C for 
a claim is that its an interest only mortgage. Im persuaded by Mr T and Mrs Ts testimony 
that theyd made clear in their initial discussions with CPL that theirs was a split mortgage. 
And I would also have expected this to have been checked before CPL offered their 
services. CMCOB general principles 2.1.7 say:
A firm must not make or pursue a claim on behalf of a customer or advise a customer to 
make or pursue a claim, if the firm knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect that the 
claim (1) does not have a good arguable basis.
I can see from the receipts the payments in October 2018 for £354, January 2019 for £474 
and March 2019 for £804 were made for the  Full Financial Review. In total £1,632.
Again, Im persuaded by Mr T and Mrs Ts testimony that they understood all the elements 
they were paying for formed part of the mis-sold mortgage claim. And if theyd been told that 
the claim had little to no likelihood of success, I dont think they would have made these 
payments.
So, I think CPL should refund all the fees paid by Mr T and Mrs T totalling £2,703.60, as I 
dont think they would have paid these fees if theyd known their claim was unlikely to 
succeed as it wasnt an interest only mortgage. 
It isnt our role to punish a business, but where we think something has gone wrong, as is
the case here, we would look to put the consumer back into the position they would have
been. And for Mr T and Mrs T the money theyd paid in fees wasnt available to them to use 
or invest. So, I agree with our investigator that 8% simple interest should be added to this 
amount  from the date it was paid to the date of CPLs settlement. And Id expect this 
payment to be made within a reasonable amount of time from my decision  Id consider this 
to be within 28 days.
Mr T and Mrs T said they hadnt been updated about what CPL were doing for them. And I 
think given the expectation that theyd receive compensation for their claim, to only find out 
that their claim had no likelihood of success some years later must have been distressing for 
them.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Commitment Protection Limited to:
refund Mr T and Mrs T £2,703.60 for the fees they paid;
add *8% simple interest from the date they paid the fees to the date Commitment 
Protection Limited refund their payments and;
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*If Commitments Protection Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T and Mrs T how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr T and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman