DRN-3409582
The complaint
Mr Y complains about how Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac dealt with his 
claim on his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y had a landlord insurance policy with Allied World. In June 2021 he made a claim on the 
policy following malicious damage to his property caused by a tenant. As part of the claim, 
he uploaded 41 photos through Allied Worlds online system. However after submitting them, 
he found only 12 had gone through correctly. He called Allied World the following day and it 
provided an email address for the photos to be sent to instead. The claim was subsequently 
settled.
However Mr Y was unhappy with the service hed received when making the claim. He said 
hed spent a large amount of time uploading the photos only to find that they hadnt all been 
submitted. And he said he had to wait on hold for a long time when he called to rectify the 
problem. He made a complaint.
Allied World accepted there had been problems with its online system and that its call wait 
times had been longer than normal. It apologised for the inconvenience these problems had 
caused Mr Y however didnt think compensation was warranted. Mr Y didnt agree, as he 
thought he should be compensated for the time he wasted. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that while there had 
been some inconvenience caused, he was satisfied Allied World did enough to put things 
right and settle the claim promptly. So he didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Mr Y didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reviewing a complaint, I first need to decide if the business being complained about 
got something wrong. And where I find it did, consider whether it has done enough to put 
things right for its customer. 
Here, I can see that Mr Y experienced some problems when providing information about his 
claim. He wasnt able to upload all the photos he needed to and this meant he had to call 
Allied World which led to him having to wait on hold for some time. I can see this caused 
Mr Y inconvenience as it meant he spent more time than he should have submitting the 
claim. 
However Ive also considered what Allied World did to address the problem. I can see once 
Mr Y got through to it on the phone, he was provided with a direct email address to send the 
photos. And while this meant he had to spend further time compiling the email, the claim was 
subsequently settled within a week of it being raised. 
So while I agree Mr Y has been caused some inconvenience when submitting the claim, I 
think Allied World responded promptly to put right the problems and settled his claim in good 
time. I therefore dont think the small delays Mr Y experienced had a big impact on the 
settlement of the claim or caused significant inconvenience as to warrant compensation. 
Allied World has apologised for the problems Mr Y experienced and I think thats enough in 
the circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman