DRN-2403840
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has closed his account and registered a marker 
at CIFAS the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr A says his bank account was put under review and then Barclays decided to close it. He 
says Barclays refused to give him the remaining balance unless he could prove he was 
entitled to the money. Mr A told Barclays that the credit it was concerned about had come 
from his account at a different bank. But he is unhappy that Barclays wouldnt remove the 
marker. He accepts it could decide to close his account, but he was unable to open an 
account elsewhere. He cant understand why Barclays eventually gave him the money 
remaining in his account if he was involved in a fraud.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Barclays had 
made a business decision to close the account. It was entitled to do so under the terms and 
conditions. It had received a report that fraudulently obtained funds had been received into 
Mr As account. And so, it had grounds to register the marker.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that he didnt think all the parts of his complaint had been 
considered. He said that putting the marker on without any proof made no sense. Barclays 
had refused to provide him with that evidence of fraud. And it had now released the 
remaining funds in his account which must mean there was no evidence of fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I know from Mr As submission to this service and the notes Barclays made of a discussion 
with him that he is aware that a specific payment into his account was reported as being 
fraudulently obtained. Mr A knows that this money had come from his account at a different 
financial business. And Barclays told him that if this money was legitimately his then hed 
need to ask his other bank to withdraw that report of fraud. I know he wasnt happy with that 
and I cant see that this has happened. He doesnt think that his other bank has registered a 
fraud marker at CIFAS. But I think it was up to him to take this up with that bank. I am 
considering here what Barclays did.
Barclays would look to return any fraudulently obtained funds remaining to the bank making 
the report. It would look at when the funds were received and the next payments out from 
the account to decide whether any of that specific money remained. Here I can see it had all 
been withdrawn  and the balance in the account was the result of a later credit Mr A had 
received. Mr A would be able to see this from his bank statement. 
I understand from what Mr A says that Barclays later allowed him to withdraw those other 
funds. It must have decided he was entitled to them. I dont see hes complaining about 
getting that money back. And although potentially confusing that isnt inconsistent with 
Barclays also still believing that his account had been used for fraud. 
As our investigator says it was entitled to review his account and decide it no longer wanted 
to offer him an account. Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A 
received fraudulent funds into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to 
apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS 
guidance says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the 
standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough 
information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, 
rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received funds into his account that were reported as being fraudulently 
obtained.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I know Mr A will be disappointed when I say that I dont have a basis to require Barclays to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman