DRN-3604691
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc irresponsibly lent him money on a credit card and 
failed to intervene when it saw he was spending considerable sums on gambling.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with Sainsburys on 28 January 2018. Sainsburys issued a 
card with a limit of £1,200. Mr M used the card for gambling transactions and incurred higher 
interest charges as the transactions are counted as cash transactions. He has told us that at 
the time he was struggling with mental health difficulties and had a gambling addiction.. He 
believes that Sainsburys should have intervened sooner.
Sainsburys initially replied in June 2019. It said that Mr M met its eligibility criteria when 
issuing the credit card. It also said that the account was well managed apart from one 
missed payment. Mr M didnt get the letter because it was wrongly addressed, but he later 
renewed his complaint in October 2021.
Our investigator said that Sainsburys checks before it decided to lend to Mr M didnt appear 
to have thrown up any signs that he was likely to find the lending unsustainable and
unaffordable. He also said that Sainsburys checks were proportionate and that there wasnt 
anything in those checks which might have shown Mr M had a gambling addiction.
Mr M said his concerns related to Sainsburys allowing him to make substantial deposits into 
gambling sites and believes that it owed him a duty of care as a vulnerable customer.
There matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered two aspects to this matter 1) whether Sainsburys should have given Mr M 
a credit card in the first place and 2) whether it should have taken action when it saw he was 
using the account to spend considerable sums on gambling.
application
Sainsburys carried out a credit check on Mr M when he applied for the card. It ascertained 
that he had four active accounts with a total of £1,650 in unsecured debt, had an annual 
income of £14,625 and monthly expenditure of £331. I think Sainsburys carried out 
proportionate checks bearing in mind the relatively low credit limit it was prepared to offer. 
Mr M appeared to have at the time a low level of debt compared to income and I think 
Sainsburys reasonably assessed that even using the maximum amount of credit, the 
repayments were sustainable and affordable for him. I do not uphold this part of Mr Ms 
complaint. 
gambling problems
Mr M believes Sainsburys should have been alerted to the amount he was spending on 
gambling and taken some action to prevent this. He points out that gambling sites are now 
no longer able to take credit cards.
Looking at the information on the account from Mr Ms statements, it appears that he initially 
took out £1,000 for betting in February 2018. That sum was paid back in April 2018. He took 
out further sums for betting in June 2018, of £1,000, and £100 and in September 2018, £50. 
He took out £2,150 in cash on February 2019 but there was no indication what that was for. 
There are no further entries on his statements related to gambling. So, over the course of a 
year four payments to betting companies were made on the card.
I would agree that someone who is a gambling addict could be classed as a vulnerable 
person. Also if it was clear that Mr M was getting into financial trouble it would have been 
reasonable to expect Sainsburys to take some steps to assist him. However, Mr M 
maintained the account well, apart from one missed payment. And I dont think that Mr Ms 
gambling would have raised any concerns. He didnt use the card for frequent large regular 
gambling payments and I dont think, from the evidence of the credit card account, that 
Sainsburys would have been alerted to Mr M having an addiction or that he was vulnerable. 
I bear in mind that Sainsburys only saw his financial position from the point of view of his 
credit card account.
So as I dont think that Sainsburys would have been alerted to any financial difficulties Mr M 
may have had, whether by gambling or other debts, I dont propose to ask it to compensate 
Mr M or to take any other action.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman