DRN-2715149
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as H have complained that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE 
unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr C has brought the complaint to us on Hs behalf. 
What happened
H hold a business interruption insurance policy with Liberty Mutual. They claimed on their 
policy after they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19. H felt their claim should be paid following the Supreme Court judgment on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. 
 
Liberty Mutual said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a 
notifiable disease at the premises, H had closed as a result of the Government Act in 
response to the national pandemic. As H hadnt indicated that there had been a case of 
Covid-19 at their premises, Liberty Mutual turned down their claim.
 
H were unhappy with Liberty Mutuals response and brought their complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Liberty Mutual had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. He thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a 
case at the premises. And as H hadnt indicated there had been a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises, the claim wasnt covered.  
 
H asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said that Covid-19 was everywhere, including 
the town where H is situated and Liberty Mutual couldnt show it wasnt at their premises.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
H. But, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Liberty Mutual has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy when declining Hs claim.  
 
The most relevant part of Hs policy covers interruption or interference with Hs business in 
consequence of compulsory closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access 
to Hs premises arising from the:
discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
Premises 
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this extension covers Hs claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the compulsory closure to have arisen from the discovery of a 
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the premises. 
  
Its for H to show that it was most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at their premises, 
rather than for Liberty Mutual to show there wasnt. I appreciate there may have been cases 
within the town H is situated but H  havent identified anyone with Covid-19 being at their 
premises. As H havent shown its most likely there was someone on their premises with 
Covid-19, I dont think this extension covers their claim.  
H also referred to the FCAs test case. However, not all terms were considered in the test 
case and as H havent indicated that there was a case of Covid-19 at their premises, I dont 
think the test cases affects the outcome of their claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome H were hoping for but, having considered this matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Liberty Mutual to pay their claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman