DRN-3066839
The complaint
V is a small business which is represented in this complaint by Mrs R. She complains that
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt provide clear information on how employee pension
contributions should be paid when V set up a group personal pension (GPP) with Aviva in
2017.
What happened
V set up a GPP in May 2017 to fulfil their obligations as an employer to set up a workplace
pension. The pension scheme V entered was a relief at source scheme. This means
contributions needed to be paid to Aviva after income tax had been deducted. Aviva would
then claim tax relief of 20% from HMRC on these contributions. Higher rate taxpayers would
need to claim additional tax relief directly through HMRC through their tax returns.
V incorrectly paid pension contributions from their employees salaries before income tax
was deducted. This is called a net pay arrangement. Aviva still claimed 20% tax relief from
HMRC. This means Vs employees underpaid income tax and were overpaid tax relief.
Mrs R seems to think V paid relief at source and Aviva wanted them to make contributions in
a net pay arrangement. But her view here is incorrect. Its the other way around as set out
above. Mrs R can convince herself by reading the government website
https://www.gov.uk/workplace-pensions/managing-your-pension.
In May 2018, Mrs R called Aviva in her capacity as an employee of V and queried whether
tax relief was deducted twice. She said contributions were deducted from her gross pay and
she didnt want to end up with a high tax bill. However, the call handler ensured her
contributions were made correctly.
In April 2019 Mrs R called Aviva again to query contributions as she was still concerned
something wasnt quite right. She was then told contributions had been paid incorrectly.
Aviva suggested two options to put things right:
1. We refund the excess member contributions and return the overclaimed tax relief to
HMRC 
For every £100.00 contribution received by Aviva which should have been a net £80.00 
contribution, Aviva will have claimed tax relief of £25.00. We will refund the £20 excess 
member contribution received and return the £5 excess tax relief to HMRC. This will entail a 
significant amount of work for Aviva to re-write our records to reflect the correct level of 
member contribution and tax relief, but this is the only feasible way to do this if option 1 
above is selected. This is also the way that HMRC would expect us to correct the tax relief 
situation.
If you choose to make the correction using option 1, Aviva will cover the cost of
the rewrite fee which would be £485.00 plus VAT.
2.We treat the member contribution received as the net member contribution which means
no adjustments are needed  subject to agreement from the members concerned
Aviva explained that both options required V to correct the PAYE position for their
employees and engage with HMRC.
V set up a salary sacrifice arrangement in their GPP from July 2019. In such an arrangement
employees agree to lowering their salaries and in return the employer agrees to make all
pension contributions. The payments count as employer contributions and not employee
contributions.
Mrs R, on behalf of V, complained to Aviva. She thought Aviva hadnt given them clear
information on how contributions should be paid when the pension was set up in 2017. Also
she said, if correct information had been given in May 2018, the mistake could have been
rectified a lot more easily. Rewriting the payroll for over two years now was a lot more
complicated and expensive and would negatively impact employees. She said the simplest
solution was for Aviva to simply refund all overpaid tax relief to HMRC.
Aviva accepted incorrect information was given during the phone call in May 2018. They
paid Mrs R £200 personally and sent hampers to Vs office as an apology to staff for this
mistake. They said they couldnt simply pay all overpaid tax relief to HMRC and keep gross
employee contributions in the pension. The pension scheme was regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) and was registered as a relief at source scheme and set up as
such. They had to operate within the guidance structure of such a scheme and they couldnt
keep ineligible member contributions from gross salary.
Mrs R disagreed and referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator thought the
options suggested by Aviva involving V to correct their payroll seemed right. He then
considered whether Aviva should be responsible to cover associated costs to remedy this
error.
Based on the information available it wasnt clear what information regarding tax relief was
available on Avivas website in May 2017. Aviva also had said they were conducting
webinars at the time, but there was no evidence that V received an invitation to attend one of
these. However, he said Aviva didnt give advice and only needed to give information on how
the scheme worked. The terms and conditions (T&Cs) stated on page 2 that Aviva would
only accept member payments that qualify for tax relief and he couldnt see that V had been
given contradictory information around this. So he didnt think Aviva was responsible for the
incorrect set up and for paying the costs that V would incur correcting this error.
However, he thought further costs could have been avoided if Aviva had given correct
information over the phone in May 2018. So any additional costs which V incur because the
error continued for another year and two months (until July 2019) should be covered by
Aviva.
V said they couldnt expect employees to pay back any underpaid tax, so they would have to
cover these tax liabilities. However, the investigator noted that V wasnt obliged to cover
these costs for employees and this was tax that employees always would have had to pay,
so he didnt think Aviva had to cover these costs.
He said if an individual employee was unhappy about additional administration costs they
may incur as part of this error, for example costs for resubmitting tax returns etc, the
employee would need to raise this directly with Aviva as a separate complaint.
Aviva accepted the investigators findings. Mrs R disagreed. She felt the sentence in the
T&Cs wasnt enough to give clear information on something as important as tax relief. She
also thought the term was wrong as V now pays contributions who dont qualify for tax relief
through salary sacrifice to the same scheme. She couldnt understand why Aviva couldnthold the member contributions from gross salary. Mrs R felt they were simply unwilling to do
so. Her accountants said rewriting payroll for such a long period after several years was not
possible.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a provisional decision in which I said in summary:
Im not satisfied Aviva provided V with sufficiently clear and fair information about 
how contributions should be paid and if clearer information had been provided, the 
incorrect payments likely could have been avoided. So I consider it fair for Aviva to 
help put things right for V.
Theres no dispute Aviva gave Mrs R wrong information in a phone call in May 2018. 
If the error had been identified at this point, correcting it would have been a lot easier. 
Even if the information when V took out the plan had been clear- which I dont think it 
was- the majority of costs and disruption in my view has been caused by Avivas 
error in May 2018.
I considered the explanations given by Avivas technical department and Im overall 
satisfied that the available options to rectify the error require a correction of V 
records. Whilst complex and possibly expensive and appreciating V would like to 
avoid having to do this at all cost, I dont think a correction of their records is 
impossible. I referred V to the governments website for further information on fixing 
problems with payroll.
With regards to what Aviva should do to put things right for V, I said the following in 
summary:
V will need to use services of their accountants and payroll provider to correct their 
records which will be chargeable. These costs should be covered by Aviva. V should 
provide quotes from their providers to show how they will charge for their work with a 
detailed breakdown in cost. This should take into account the fact that doing these 
tasks for three years might not necessarily take three times as long as doing it for 
one year. 
One of the options offered by Aviva is to rewrite the scheme to what the contributions
should have been and refund the overpaid 20% of the contributions to V. The
additional tax relief would be refunded to HMRC. Whilst I understand the refunded 
20% can be used by V to pay tax liabilities for basic rate tax payers, their
employees in higher tax brackets will be liable to pay back additional income tax.
V said they would not be able to ask employees to pay this back after the time
that has passed, so they would cover these liabilities.
I think its generally reasonable to ask employees to pay back overpaid salary as they 
were never entitled to this amount. So although I can understand why V might feel 
uncomfortable to ask their employees to pay back any sums, this would be their 
decision and I wont ask Aviva to cover the employees additional tax liabilities.However, if V decided to recover tax liabilities from employees, they would likely not 
be able to insist for the whole sum to be paid back at once given the amount of time 
that has passed and as overpayments were made for over two years. It will be 
reasonable for employees to expect to repay this in instalments (for example through 
deductions from salary over a longer period of time) unless they choose to pay it all 
at once.
If V decide to request additional sums from employees, any additional costs incurred 
by V in this regard should also be covered by Aviva. This might include:
costs for additional work required on setting up these repayment plans with payroll
any sums that V - despite reasonable attempts- is unable to recover, for example if 
ex-employees dont respond to several requests of repayment
any additional interest, e.g. if whole sum cant be repaid by V in one payment and 
they need to take out an interest-bearing loan or enter a repayment plan with HMRC
If any such costs are incurred by V, these need to be evidenced to Aviva.
Aviva should actively try and help V through the administration process as much as 
possible. Aviva mentioned they dealt with another firm in similar circumstances, so 
should be able to share their experiences with V on how this worked. I ask Aviva to 
name a designated contact person which can answer questions V might have and 
also use Avivas contacts to HMRC where possible to explore the easiest way to sort 
this out with the least disruption possible for V and their employees. If Aviva feels its
necessary or helpful to liaise with Vs accountants and if their time is chargeable
these costs should also be covered by Aviva. I consider providing support to V
equally as important as covering the actual costs.
V expects that some employees also have to resubmit individual tax returns or incur
further accountant costs relating to this error. Different employees might be affected
in different ways. This would all depend on individual circumstances of the 
employees. If any employee does have additional complaints around this they would
have to raise this directly with Aviva as their own complaint. 
I would expect Aviva to deal with these possible employee complaints quickly and 
reasonably if they receive them. I appreciate hampers have been sent to the office to 
staff as an apology for wrong information given in May 2018. But in individual 
circumstances this might not be sufficient.
I asked both parties for further comments which both of them provided and which I thank 
them for.
Vs comments
Mrs R asked further questions about whether there was really no other alternative to 
avoid V having to rewrite their payroll. She queried whether it was really impossible 
for Aviva to refund HMRC or treat their historic contributions as employer only 
contributions. She also asked whether their pension scheme could be transferred to 
another Aviva scheme which could hold the contributions V made.
Mrs R didnt agree with my finding that Vs employees had never been entitled to the 
overpaid amount. She said their payroll was calculated by a method acceptable to 
HMRC and tax deductions were the same as under a salary sacrifice scheme.
Their payroll provider confirmed they had to correct all years from the date of the error until now. They provided a quote with a breakdown of their costs. It showed that 
they would charge £2,790 plus VAT to rewrite the payroll from May 2017 until July 
2021 plus £50 per month plus VAT for any additional month after July 2021.
V are still considering whether they will be able to pay the additional tax on behalf of 
their employees. They will not have a complete picture until after the payroll is rerun. 
And they didnt want to do this unless there really was no alternative.
Mrs R said it was extremely difficult to explain to their staff how this error will be 
corrected. V will be faced with a lot of disruption-financially and administratively. 
Employees will be asked to repay a deduction in wages from four years ago and 
higher rate taxpayers will have to submit or resubmit tax returns. They also then need 
to raise complaints with Aviva to be compensated for professional fees which does 
not take into account the administrative burden and financial stress this may cause 
them. V will also have to find their leavers, try to explain the situation and obtain 
payment from them. 
Mrs R cant see this is going to be acceptable to their employees and feels they 
might lose staff over this which would damage their business. They dont have 
resources to replace any loss of expertise.
Avivas comments
They provided detailed explanations why Aviva didnt have a choice in its operation 
of tax relief. They also explained that the payments received cant be moved to 
another Aviva pension scheme as this doesnt meet HMRC requirements.
 Aviva isnt able to provide tax or payroll advice to V as they are not authorised or 
regulated to do so. Therefore they are unable to offer any specialist support or 
nominate a contact to support through the correction process. However, they will 
provide administrative support where it is required to facilitate the correction process 
and the refund of the excess contributions.
The only exception to this is that Aviva would welcome engagement with the 
accountant chosen by V to review their proposed actions and associated costs. This 
includes the potential further costs of correction of employees tax positions as set 
out in the provisional decision.
Based on the format of accounts submitted by V to Companies House for the 
relevant years, there would not be any requirement to resubmit the companys 
accounts following the correction of their PAYE submission and payment of 
associated tax. Accordingly, the corresponding costs of doing so will not arise.
This correction exercise will not change the reporting of P11d reportable benefits in 
kind. Pension contributions are specifically excluded from the definition of benefits in 
kind.
V is not the only employer to have made similar errors, and their experience to date 
suggests that providers and accountants are typically able to make corrections 
readily once those errors have been accurately described to them. The only respect 
in which this case appears exceptional is the length of time over which the errors 
occurred. This is the other reason why Aviva welcomes the opportunity to review 
detailed quotations and engage with the accountants appointed to review those 
proposals before any work begins.If Aviva receives individual complaints from employees they will complete a full 
review of the circumstances of their complaint and respond in full following an 
investigation.
Having re-considered Aviva and Vs submissions, Im still satisfied my decision and how to 
put things right is fair in the circumstances.
I completely understand that Mrs R would like to avoid the rewrite of Vs payroll and the 
burden and stresses this brings. However, I carefully considered Avivas explanations why 
an alternative solution is not possible here. And Im satisfied they are restricted in their 
options by pension law and HMRC regulations as well as by the way their scheme was set 
up.
I also remain of the view that its reasonable to ask employees to pay back overpaid 
amounts. After the correction they will have paid the correct tax amount. So I wont ask Aviva 
to refund any additional tax liabilities. 
I appreciate Mrs Rs concerns that employees might not be understanding of the situation 
and her worries that some might resign over this which would have major implications for V. 
However, mistakes can happen and I dont think its reasonable to think employees will 
resign over this matter, particularly as I have found that this was Avivas fault and not Vs.
Employees will be able to make separate complaints to Aviva if they are affected and wish to 
do so. And as individuals (rather than a company) I would expect Aviva to consider whether 
their mistake caused individuals any stress or inconvenience and whether a payment is 
reasonable to make up for this.  
Putting things right
Aviva should pay V the payroll provider costs as set out in the letter dated 9 August. 
They look reasonable to me and Aviva havent commented on this either. I would 
expect V to request the rewrite of their payroll immediately to avoid further costs 
accruing.
Aviva should liaise with Vs accountant and if their time is chargeable cover these 
costs. I expect Vs accountant to discuss their proposed actions and associated 
costs with Aviva before work begins and provide a detailed invoice afterwards. Aviva 
should contact Mrs R to arrange this.
If V decides to pursue employees for repayments, they would likely not be able to 
insist for the whole sum to be paid back at once given the amount of time that has 
passed and as overpayments were made for over two years. It will be reasonable for 
employees to expect to repay this in instalments (for example through deductions 
from salary over a longer period of time) unless they choose to pay it all at once. 
If V decide to request additional sums from employees, any additional costs incurred 
by V in this regard should also be covered by Aviva. This might include:
costs for additional work required on setting up these repayment plans with payroll
any sums that V - despite reasonable attempts- is unable to recover, for example if 
ex-employees dont respond to several requests of repayment
any additional interest, e.g. if whole sum cant be repaid by V in one payment and 
they need to take out an interest-bearing loan or enter a repayment plan with HMRCIf any such costs are incurred by V, these need to be evidenced to Aviva. As soon as 
V have decided whether they will cover employees additional liabilities or whether 
they will ask for refunds, they should let Aviva know.
Name a contact person at Aviva which V can liaise with about the correction process. 
I accept Aviva cant give tax or payroll advice and I dont expect them to do this. 
However, having a dedicated person to contact to resolve this matter on the 
administrative side as quickly as possible should make things easier and less 
stressful for V.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and request Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to support
and compensate V as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman