DRN-4516618
The complaint
Ms P feels that Metro Bank PLC didnt progress her application for a new account because 
of her nationality.
What happened
Ms P applied online for a new account with Metro. She received an acknowledgement 
message from Metro which said she would receive a response to her application within three 
working days. But the next communication Ms P received from Metro was over two weeks 
later and was the same acknowledgement message shed previously received, which again 
said that she would receive a response to her application within three working days. 
Ms P didnt then receive any further responses from Metro and given the time that passed 
her application was closed. Ms P wasnt happy about this and felt that Metro were 
discriminating against her based on her nationality and werent progressing her account 
application for this reason. So, she raised a complaint.
Metro responded to Ms P and apologised that her online application hadnt progressed as it 
should had. Metro accepted that theyd provided poor service by not progressing her 
application and offered £50 to Ms P as compensation for that poor service. But Metro also 
explained that their mistake wasnt in any way influenced by Ms Ps nationality. Ms P wasnt 
satisfied with Metros response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel the evidence and 
information available to them reasonably suggested that Metro were discriminating against 
Ms P as she thought was the case. And they felt that what had happened here was most 
likely to be an instance of poor service unrelated to Ms Ps nationality. Finally, our 
investigator felt that the apology and offer of £50 compensation already provided by Metro 
was a fair outcome to the poor service that Ms P had received. Ms P remained dissatisfied, 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I highlight this point because Ms P has asked this service to question Metro about how many 
other people of her nationality have had similar instances where Metro have failed to 
progress their new account applications.
But as explained, my remit as an ombudsman isnt regulatory in nature. Rather, my remit is 
to decide the merits of a specific complaint as it relates to the specific person bringing that 
complaint. This means that I can only consider what has happened to Ms P here. And Im 
unable to consider anything that may or may not have happened to people other than Ms P.
In their response to Ms Ps complaint, Metro explained that they have to make relevant 
checks when they consider a new application. And, in Ms Ps instance, they needed to 
conduct further checks which caused an initial delay to her application. This was then 
compounded by further service errors, one being that they didnt contact Ms P about her 
outstanding application to let her know what was happening. 
Metros explanation here seems reasonable to me. I say this because I feel its 
understandable that Metro would have to undertake checks on an applicant to satisfy their 
own security protocols before approving an account application. And its also the case that in 
some instances further checks may be required. I dont feel that Ms P being selected for 
further checks was unfair but was a necessary consequence of Metro being unable to 
complete their security checks in the first instance. 
Ms P says that she feels that Metro has discriminated against her given the issue shes 
experienced. While we do take any allegation like this very seriously, Id like to explain that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is unable to make findings about whether discrimination 
has taken place in terms of the Equality Act 2010. Thats a matter of law and only the courts 
have the power to make a decision of that nature. I have taken the relevant law into account 
in relation to Ms Ps concerns and whether I think Metro Bank has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner. This involves taking a number of factors into consideration, including 
the provisions made in The Equality Act 2010.
Having considered everything, it appears as though Metros mistake was just a mistake 
which took place after Ms Ps application had been selected for further checks. 
Unfortunately, this mistake led to Ms Ps application not being progressed as Metro failed to 
update her correctly.
Importantly, I feel that such a service error as Ms P experienced here could occur to any 
account applicant and I havent seen anything to suggest that what happened was a 
consequence of Ms Ps nationality. I hope that it helps Ms P to know that someone impartial 
and independent has investigated her concerns.
Finally, in consideration of the service issue that I feel took place here, as Ive described it 
above, Im satisfied that the apology and offer of £50 compensation that Metro have made to 
Ms P, as well as the invitation to apply for an account with them again should she still wish to 
do so, already represents a fair resolution to that service mistake. 
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Ms Ps favour, I will only 
be doing so in order to instruct Metro to pay the £50 to Ms P that theyve already offered to 
pay. And I wont be instructing Metro to take any further or alternative action beyond this. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Ms P was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Metro must make a payment of £50 to Ms P.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman