DRN-4008578
The complaint
Mrs O has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt 
with a claim she made under a home and buildings insurance policy she held jointly with Mr 
O. 
RSA avoided the policy and refused to deal with their claim.
For ease Ill refer to Mrs O in my decision as the lead complainant. 
What happened
Mrs O reported an escape of water to RSA from a shower in their home in January 2022. 
Their insurer RSA investigated the claim. It discovered that Mr and Mrs O hadnt disclosed a 
previous claim from 2018 with a different insurer. RSA said if it had known about the claim, it 
would have charged 15% more of a premium. So it said it would settle the EOW claim, but 
proportionately, so 85%. 
RSA asked Mrs O to provide a report to show the cause of damage and to show she had 
taken steps to mitigate the loss by ensuring the leak was stopped. 
In June 2022 Mrs O provided a report - and photos - to RSA. On review, RSA made the 
decision to avoid Mr and Mrs Os policy. It applied its fraud exclusion as the reason for its 
decision. RSA said its Surveyor found the damage to have been long standing due to a lack 
of sealant. RSA wasnt satisfied with the report and photos provided. The report had 
discrepancies and it said the photos didnt show the cause of damage or evidence the works 
reported to have been carried out to fix the leak Mrs O reported in January 2022. 
Mrs O complained to RSA about its decision, but it didnt uphold the complaint. So she 
asked us to look at things for her. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought RSA had 
acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs O didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. She says she did everything that 
was asked of her and wants her bathroom and associated damage repaired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSAs decision to avoid Mr and Mrs Os policy and not meet their claim isnt because of their 
claims history. So I dont intend to comment on that as it isnt relevant to the outcome. 
RSA can avoid a policy and refuse a claim if it believes a condition of the policy has been 
breached. In this case, RSA say, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr and Mrs O did 
breach the fraud condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy 
in relation to this, and they say:
Fraud - If your family, or anyone acting on behalf of you or your family, uses 
dishonesty, exaggeration or false documentation to obtain or support:
 a claims payment under your policy, or
 cover for which you do not qualify, or
 cover at a reduced premium
all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be 
entitled to have your premium refunded, and legal action may be taken against you.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, RSA is 
entitled to cancel or avoid the insurance policy and reject a claim if it wants to. 
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need 
to decide if RSA acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it has.
So Ive looked at what RSA has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
Mrs O reported a leak coming from her shower which was causing water damage to the wall 
to her sons bedroom and the hall ceiling below. 
RSA found the damage was long standing when its agent inspected the damage - due to a 
lack of sealant. Mrs O didnt accept their findings. In June 2022 an Investigator appointed by 
RSA discussed the claim with Mrs O. It was concerned that no trace and access had been 
carried out by Mrs O to identify and stop the source of the leak five months after reporting 
the incident. 
Mrs O provided a report. This was passed to RSAs appointed agents to consider. They had 
concerns about discrepancies in the report. The company and VAT number provided for the 
company the author reported on behalf of didnt match. They found the costs quoted for 
repairs were excessive. So RSA asked for photos to show the cause of damage. Mrs O 
provided photos to show some tiles had been removed from the shower wall. RSA wasnt 
satisfied that the photos and the report supported Mrs Os claim for an escape of water or 
the repairs that were reported to have been carried out. 
Mrs O confirmed that the report had been written by Mr O. 
In light of the information provided, RSA was of the view that Mrs O was aware that the 
cause of damage was due to a long standing issue and not a sudden escape of water which 
required trace and access works to stop the leak. It found that their decision to provide a 
report which was written by Mr O, with its discrepancies along with the photos of the shower 
wall - was enough for RSA to apply its fraud exclusion under the policy.  
I understand Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed with my decision. But I think RSA properly 
investigated the claim. And having received the information it did and putting all of its 
concerns together, I think it was fair for RSA to rely on the assessment by the Investigator 
and its agents. 
I therefore dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to decide the fraud condition of the policy 
had been breached. And having reached that conclusion, I dont think RSA acted 
unreasonably in deciding to avoid their policy, reject their claim and keep the premium Mr 
and Mrs O paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman