Page 1 of 10The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Burley Financial Services Limited (Burley) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
plan (PPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
Mr Rs complaint is being brought on his behalf by a representative. But for ease, Ill mainly refer 
to the complaint as being brought by Mr R.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, 
which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr R had spoken with a financial advisor provided by his employer but felt rushed. So, he 
approached another financial advisor who had been recommended by a family member.
This financial advisor wasnt authorised to provide advice on pension transfers, so it referred 
Mr R to Burley in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs.
Burley completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and objectives. 
Burley also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderate. It was recorded that Mr R wanted to retire early, possibly at age 57 or 58, but at 60 at 
the latest.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them the 
options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their 
BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was 
later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 24 October 2017, Burley advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits into a PPP and invest 
the proceeds with Royal London. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation 
were, in summary:
It enabled Mr R to take control of his funds now.
Mr R wanted to be able to withdraw lump sums and take advantage of the new pension
freedom and flexibility rules.
DRN-3804391Page 2 of 13Mr R wanted to access funds earlier than the existing schemes retirement date and 
take a higher level of income at first before reducing it when his state pension 
became payable.
On receipt of the suitability report, Mr R questioned the assessment of his attitude to risk, 
reiterating that he wanted to take a more cautious approach with his pension. The 
investment recommendations were amended accordingly.
Mr R complained in 2020 to Burley about the transfer advice. He said the advice to transfer 
was unsuitable as there was no prospect of matching the benefits he wouldve been entitled 
to had he moved to BSPS2. By transferring to BSPS2, he said he wouldve benefited from a 
guaranteed income for life.
Burley didnt agree with Mr Rs complaint. So, Mr R referred his complaint to our Service. An 
Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr R was motivated by 
the high transfer value being offered at the time. She also noted that Mr R had benefitted 
from the flexibility offered by the PPP and that these two benefits outweighed moving to the 
BSPS2 or the PPF.
Mr R didnt agree and maintained the transfer was unsuitable. The Investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 5 October 2022. In this, I said:
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I disagree with the opinion of our investigator, and Ive provisionally decided 
to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Burley should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
Ive looked at the information within the suitability report. And I have to say, its not easy to 
follow. To begin with, its based on Mr R retiring at age 60, though there was clearly some 
talk of him doing so sooner. Furthermore, a number of the comparisons were done against 
the PPF, and not the benefits Mr R wouldve been entitled to under the BSPS2. Ive seen a 
note saying that Mr R didnt want to look at the BSPS2 because he considered it to be a 
smokescreen and that it would end up in the PPF regardless. However, it was Burleys duty 
to consider the alternative options and advise Mr R on what was in his best interests, 
regardless of Mr Rs preconceived ideas about the BSPS2.Page 3 of 13Furthermore, the suitability letter went on to say:
in reality if the fund was to go into the new BSPS2, there would be no increases in 
benefits so therefore the figures above are irrelevant.
I disagree with this statement. The suitability report talks in general about Mr Rs only option 
being the PPF. However, in September 2017, details were provided on the BSPS2. This 
confirmed that any benefits built up after 1988 (which the majority of Mr Rs were) would 
increase in line with CPI (though only the GMP element accrued between 1988 and 1997 
increased in line with CPI but was capped at 3%). So, I think this statement, without 
qualification, was misleading.
Burley has strongly argued that BSPS2 may still not have gone ahead. But I think it has 
overestimated the chance of this not happening. Mr R had received his time to choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided. Of 
course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but it was unlikely in my mind. And so 
the benefits available to Mr R through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this 
advice. And without this analysis it is difficult to make an accurate assessment of whether 
the transfer was financially viable for Mr R.
Mr R was 55 at the time of the advice and the suitability report recorded that he wanted to 
retire at 60. The transfer value analysis report (TVAS) dated 17 October 2017 set out the 
critical yields required for the transfer to meet Mr Rs existing pension plan - at age 65 it was 
7.33% if he took a full pension or 4.58% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. At age 60 it 
was 12.3% if he took a full pension or 6.64% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. Of 
course, keeping his existing DB plan wasnt an option. And by this time the BSPS2 benefits 
wouldve been known so they shouldve been analysed in the same way; the BSPS2 
wouldve offered similar starting income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. This wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat, but I still think they 
wouldve been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
According to the TVAS, the critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the 
PPF was 2.07% if Mr R took a full pension or 1.54% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
At age 60 it was 3.51% if he took a full pension or 2.54% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement 
and 3% for four years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per 
year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr R 
giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the 
same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the lowest critical yield was 2.54%, which 
was based on if Mr R taking TFC and a reduced pension through the PPF at age 60. The 
critical yield if Mr R took the same combination of benefits through his existing scheme at 
age 60 was 6.64%. So, if Mr R were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 
age 60 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer 
to the 6.64%. Given the discount rate of 3% and the regulators lower projection rate of 2%,
I think the opportunity to improve on the BSPS2 benefits (and likely the PPF benefits also) at 
age 60 was limited. And as Mr R didnt want to take a lot of risk, he may have received 
benefits of a lower overall value at retirement, even if the scheme moved to the PPF, as a Page 4 of 13result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mr Rs best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice, as Burley has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason that Burley recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr R. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr R required flexibility 
in retirement in the way that Burley has said he did. I say this because Ive seen no pressing 
reason why Mr R needed access to TFC soon after retirement. He had no mortgage 
outstanding or other debts. And Ive seen nothing to suggest he had plans for any major 
purchases. Burley has made reference to Mr Rs desire to use the TFC for holidays and to 
purchase a car. But I dont think advising Mr R to transfer out of a DB scheme simply to go 
on holiday or buy a car wouldve been suitable advice. And even if Mr R preferred to 
maximise his TFC, that had to be weighed up against the lower income hed likely be able to 
take in retirement as a result.
In any event, its recorded that Mr R and his wife had around £60,000 in accessible savings. 
I dont accept Burleys point that money held in a stocks and shares ISA is inaccessible just 
because the value of it may fluctuate over time. And, had Mr R genuinely wanted to, he 
couldve taken TFC from the BSPS2 or the PPF along with a reduced pension when he 
retired.
Burley says Mr R needed £18,000 per year from age 60 and he wouldnt have been able to 
achieve this through the PPF or the BSPS2 because the starting pension was too low. Under 
the BSPS at age 60 Mr R was entitled to an income of £18,246 per year or £12,526 per year 
and TFC of £83,509. Based on what I know about the BSPS2, Mr Rs starting income under 
that scheme wasnt likely to be significantly less than this. I think its likely Mr R wouldve 
chosen to take TFC because it is a tax-efficient way of accessing a pension; but even with 
the reduced pension I think he couldve most likely met his income needs of £18,000 per 
year. I say this because Mr R couldve used the TFC or his savings to top up the amount he 
needed above the income he was entitled to under the BSPS2. With TFC and savings worth 
around £140,000, this wouldve likely covered the shortfall, leaving sufficient funds for other 
purchases Mr R may have envisaged using the TFC for.
Furthermore, Burley has failed to take into account that Mr Rs wife was older than him. At 
the time of the advice she was aged 59 and she wouldve been able to access her own DB 
pension at age 60. So, very soon after the advice (and before Mr R intended to retire) Mr Rs 
wife would be in receipt of £5,590.56 per year (according to Burleys response to the 
representatives complaint letter), which more or less made up the shortfall. Mrs R was also 
entitled to her state pension at age 66, at which time Mr R would be just shy of 63. So, by 
this age their combined income wouldve been in excess of £26,000 per year. Overall, I think 
Mr R couldve had his required income of £18,000 between ages 60 and 67 without having 
to transfer out of the DB scheme or touch his savings.
Its also clear that Mr Rs income needs wouldve been met if he moved with the scheme to 
the PPF  the benefits available at age 60 were actually higher than under the BSPS2 at age 
60 because of the more favourable early retirement factors. While Mr R may have felt 
uneasy about this, Burleys assertions that Mr R could only meet his income needs by 
transferring out of the scheme simply werent true. Either moving with the scheme to the 
PPF or opting into the BSPS2 wouldve given him the required income until his state pension 
became payable.Page 5 of 13Burley may argue that this would leave Mr R with too much income and him having to pay 
tax on it. Ive also seen Burley emphasising (in a negative way) that if Mr R remained in the 
scheme hed get the highest level of income just before he died. But I dont think that was a 
good enough reason to recommend he transfer out of the BSPS. If Mr R felt he had too 
much income he couldve reinvested it for the benefit of his children in a tax-efficient way.
I also think that Burley shouldve considered that Mr or Mrs R couldve required care later in 
life or had other unforeseen expenses, and any excess income or savings couldve been put 
towards this. In any event, I dont think it is reasonable to advise someone to give up the 
prospect of extra income just because a minimal amount of extra tax would be payable.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr R could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF at age 60.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. And I dont 
think Burley explored to what extent Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income 
in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr R 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr R predeceased her. I dont think Burley made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr R. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it would also be 
calculated as if no TFC had been taken. Furthermore, it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, 
Burley should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Burley 
shouldve instead explored life insurance further. I appreciate that the suitability report 
mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured equal to the transfer value  this was 
discounted by Mr R because of the cost (£264 per month). But I dont think that this was a 
balanced way of presenting this option to Mr R.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Rs pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr R wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr R how much he would ideally like to leave to his spouse, 
and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely 
to be cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think life 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB schemePage 6 of 13Its clear that Mr R, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund.
So its quite possible that Mr R was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and the PPF. However, it was Burleys obligation to 
give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest.
I think that Burley shouldve reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought. Mr Ms income in retirement and TFC wouldve still been sufficient 
through the PPF to meet his needs and it was guaranteed. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to Burley recommending he transfer out of a DB scheme altogether.
And, as Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr R through 
the BSPS2 into account and shouldve alleviated Mr Rs concerns about the scheme moving 
to the PPF.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Burley 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a PPP Mr R was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at age 60. And I 
dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was suitable advice for Mr R to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Burley's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Burleys advice. I say this because Mr R was an 
inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk and this pension accounted for all of 
his retirement provision. So, if Burley had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs desire to have control of his funds and benefit from the large 
transfer value were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Burley had explained that Mr R could meet all 
of his retirement income objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight.
Im also mindful that in November 2017, before the transfer of his benefits went ahead Mr R 
sent Burley the details of an article hed read with the headline, Pension transfer wrong for 
85% of British Steelworkers. He wanted to know whether Burley had read the article and he 
said he was starting to get very nervous about the negativity surrounding pension transfers 
and it was seriously affecting his sleep. I think this demonstrates that Mr R was worried 
about transferring and he wanted to ensure he was doing the right thing. While Burley 
responded telling Mr R he had nothing to worry about, I think if Burley had instead told him Page 7 of 13that it wasnt in his best interest to transfer he wouldve followed that advice. Mr R 
consistently told Burley he was a cautious investor and given his concerns about the security 
of his pension I dont think he wouldve gone against that advice.
Im aware that in a number of communications with Burley Mr R appeared motivated and 
anxious to get the transfer out completed. But Mr R had received advice from two 
independent firms that he should transfer out of the DB scheme. So, I think his words have 
to be considered in that context. It isnt reasonable to assume that hed have behaved the 
same way if hed been advised to move with the scheme to the PPF or opt into the BSPS2. 
So, I dont think demonstrates hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Burley should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Burley has said that Mr R could now use his funds to purchase an annuity but is instead 
benefitting from flexibility of the personal pension. It is evident that Mr R will benefit from 
flexibility by virtue of the position he is in now, but that has only arisen because of the 
unsuitable advice. And ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate 
redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. And I see 
no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also set out how I thought Burley should put matters right. And I said Mr Rs compensation 
should be based on him having retired at age 59. I invited both parties to respond to my PD.
Mr Rs representative responded. It said, in summary, it agreed that the complaint should be 
upheld. However, it said that although Mr R accessed his TFC at age 59, it thought losses 
should be calculated to age 65.  It said Mr R didnt need to take the TFC at age 59 and only 
did so as a result of Burleys negligent advice. 
Burley responded in detail. I wont summarise all of the points Burley made in response 
here, but I will address what I consider the key points below.
The case has now been passed back to me to review again and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already explained, both parties have responded to my PD  Burley in substantial 
detail. Ive thought about everything both parties have said. I may not respond to every point 
that theyve raised, and I mean no disrespect by this. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be the key arguments made by each 
side.
Mr Rs representatives key point, in response to my PD, is that any redress should be 
calculated with a retirement age of 65 rather than 59 as I suggested. It said there was no 
need for Mr R to retire early and he did so because of the negligent advice of Burley. 
I accept that Mr R may not have needed to retire early. But its clear he was considering 
early retirement at the time of his meetings with Burley. Mr R has told us about a number of 
things that led to his early retirement including a generous redundancy offer and becoming a 
grandfather. I therefore dont think that Mr R retired early as a result of Burleys advice, but 
rather that he saw the benefit of retiring early and wanted to, given the changes in his life. I 
therefore remain of the opinion that a retirement age of 59 is appropriate for any redress Page 8 of 13calculation to be based upon.  
Burley has raised a number of points. As Ive said, I wont address each and every one. But 
Ive addressed the key arguments under the following individual headings.
Reference to FCA consultation papers
Burley has questioned whether our rules allow us to make decisions based on consultation 
papers. Instead it says the relevant law, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, sets 
out that only established FCA rules can be taken into account when determining complaints 
in our compulsory jurisdiction. The rules under which we operate are known as the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules and can be found within the FCA Handbook. The relevant part here 
is DISP 3.6. 
DISP 3.6.1 says:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 goes on to say:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2)  (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
This means that I have a broad remit of what I may consider when assessing a complaint. 
And Im therefore satisfied that when considering, in the whole, what is fair and reasonable 
when deciding a complaint, that guidance can be taken into account.
Reference to discount rates
Burley has asked why I have referred to discount rates when businesses were not required 
to use them when giving advice. While I havent based my findings on this, I think it is a 
reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was 
reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required 
businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable 
under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses such as Burley 
were free to use the discount rate as this wouldve been considered a reasonable 
assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with 
the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is 
this combination, along with Mr Rs attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely 
be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
The uncertainty of whether BSPS2 would happen
I accept Burleys point that there was some uncertainty over whether BSPS2 would proceed. Howe ver, as I set out in my PD, I thi nk it was considered likely to be proceeding by all 
parties at the time Mr R was given advice. And its evide nt that Mr R was being asked to 
decide whether he wanted to join this scheme, with considerable details about the scheme 
and how it compared with the PPF was provided to him. I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Burley to effectively ignore the choice Mr R was being given on the basis that 
it might not procee d. And even if the BSPS2 hadnt been established, as I explained, I still 
think the PPF, with its risk f
ree and guaranteed income, was a better option fo r Mr R than 
switching to a PPP.
The PPP providing lower overall benefits
I accept I made an error in my PD when I said that the majority of Mr Rs pension would 
increase if he joined the BSPS2. It was in fact just under 50% that would be increasing. 
However, the point I was making here was that the suitability report was misleading in 
stating that, if the fund was to go into the new BSPS2, there would be no increases in 
benefits so therefore  the figures above are irrelevant. That was clearly not the case, as 
Burley appears to accept given the figures it provided in its response to my PD .
Furthermore, it should be noted that Im not saying that the advice wa s unsuitable because 
of the escalations applicable to BSPS2 or the PPF. My reference to overall lower benefits 
were because of the fact that the TVAS showed that at Mr Rs desired retirement age of 60, 
the fund would need to grow at a rate higher than was likel y achievable to provide the same 
benefits as the BSPS2 or the PPF.
Burley ha s gone on to explai n that Mr R is actually now in a better position than he wouldve 
been i
n had he chosen BSPS2 o r the PPF. It says he i s able to purchase an annuity which 
would provide a higher income tha n he would ve received from either BSPS2 or the PPF. 
That may be the case now, and that is something that will be taken into account once Burley 
complete s the redress calculation  its possible thi s may not show a loss. But that s a matter 
for the redress calculation. I need to make my decision based on whethe r the advice was 
suitable at the time. If it shows there is no loss, then Burle y will not need to make a payment 
in this rega rd. But this doesnt mean its advice wa s suitable or that the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld.
PPF rather than BSPS2 being the co rrect option under FCA guidance
Burley ha s pointed to FCA guidance which sets out reasons the PPF may have been more 
suitable than BSPS2. I accept this may be the case had Mr R had concrete retirement plans 
at the time of advice. But I dont think he did. He had vague ideas of what he may like to do, 
but this wasnt set in stone at the time. Im satisfied that, based on wh at was known at the 
time Mr R was given advice, the BSPS2 was the suitable option for Mr R. Its evide nt that he 
has retired at age 59, but I think that was dictated b y circumstances that have arisen since 
the advice was given and so were not reasonably foreseen.
Flexibility and income needs 
Burley ha s reiterated that the entire analysis fo r Mr R wa s based on his desire fo r an income 
of £18,000. Its unclea r why £18,000 wa s selected. I cant see that Burley quantified this or 
inde
ed challenged it. Burley says that this wouldn t have been achievable under the BSPS2. 
Howe ver, Burley didnt do an y analysis based on the benefits Mr R could take under the 
BSPS2 at age 60. So, I dont think it couldve reasonably discounted the BSPS2 as a means 
of achieving Mr Rs retirement income needs. In any event, I set out in my PD why I thought 
Mr R was likel y to be able to achieve this sum through the BSPS2 or the PPF, particularly if 
he used TFC and hi s savings to top up his retirement income until the state pension became 
payable. And I havent seen any arguments to persuade me otherwise.
Page 9 of 13Page 10  of 13Burley has also pointed to me saying that I was satisfied that Mr R couldve met his income 
needs at age 60 via BSPS2 or the PPF. It says this is irrelevant as he retired at age 59. 
However, we now know that he retired at age 59, this wasnt known at the time of the advice. 
So it is relevant to whether the advice was suitable given that the advice was based on Mr R 
retiring at age 60. 
Ultimately, Burley led Mr R to believe that he could only meet his retirement needs at age 60 
by transferring out. As I set out in my PD, this wasnt correct.
Burley has noted that Mr R has utilised some of the benefits available via the PPP when 
retiring at age 59 in a way which he couldnt have done under BSPS2 or PPF. Again, its 
making this argument with the benefit of hindsight, whereas I have to make my decision on 
the suitability of the advice based on what was known at the time of the advice. In my view, 
Mr R accessed his benefits in this way simply because he could. They were available to him 
as an option, so he used them. I dont think it is reasonable to equate his behaviour now to 
demonstrate what his behaviour wouldve been had he received different advice. And Im 
satisfied his behaviour wouldve been different had he been advised to switch to BSPS2 as 
he shouldve been.
Cash flow modelling
Burley has pointed to its cash flow analysis which it says shows that the fund would last 
beyond average life expectancy, so Mr R wasnt reliant on the guarantees. Ive looked again 
at the cashflow modelling. There is some evidence of Burley stress testing at a high level, 
though these comparisons do not seem to reflect Mr Rs overall objectives. It seems that 
most of the detailed projections were only shown to Mr R based on a medium level of 
growth. Given Mr Rs cautious ATR it was possible, and in my view more likely than not, that 
this wouldnt be achieved. More detailed projections based on a lower growth rate wouldve 
shown that the fund would likely run out sooner.
I note that the stress testing evidence shows that if he took a drawdown income of just over 
£20,000 per annum, the fund might be depleted by age 86. I dont know why it chose this 
sum, given Burley said Mr R wanted to take an income of £18,000 per year. But given it isnt 
substantially different I still think it demonstrates the point that if Mr R lived a long life, his 
funds may run out before he died. This doesnt seem to have been taken into account. And I 
think it serves to demonstrate that Mr R actually was reliant on the guaranteed funds. 
Furthermore, one of Mr Rs recorded objectives was to be able to pass on money to family. 
Notwithstanding that I dont think this was a genuine objective for Mr R, based on this 
strategy, its possible nothing would be left by the time he died. So drawing his funds down 
at this rate was incompatible with what Burley said was Mr Rs other key objective.
Burleys proposed remedy
Burley has said Mr R purchasing an annuity would solve the issue of the loss of guaranteed 
income and its offered to arrange this for minimal fees. But ultimately, the Regulator has set 
out what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined 
benefit pension transfer advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances 
of this complaint. If Mr R wishes to purchase an annuity, that is a matter for him to decide.
In summary, whilst Ive considered the further submissions by both parties, its not 
persuaded me to depart from the conclusions I set out in my PD.
SummaryPage 11  of 13I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Burley 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a PPP Mr R was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at age 60. And I 
dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this  I think Mr R couldve met his retirement needs through the BSPS2 or the 
PPF. So, I dont think it was suitable advice for Mr R to transfer his DB scheme to a PPP.
I considered whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Burley's advice. But Im 
not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Burleys advice. I say this because Mr R was an inexperienced investor with a cautious 
attitude to risk and this pension accounted for all of his retirement provision. So, if Burley had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Burley should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Im also still persuaded that it is the benefits available to Mr R through the BSPS2 that 
should be used for comparison purposes when calculating redress. I say this because (as I 
set out in my PD) although Mr R wanted to retire early, he wasnt sure at what age. So, 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. Also, Mr R was married, and his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr R chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think Burley shouldve advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Burley to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Burleys unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
most likely transferred to BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their Page 12  of 13compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Mr R would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before his complaint is settled. 
So, I consider its fair that Burley waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this 
complaint.
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr R.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance /rules to come 
into effect to determine this complaint. 
Burley must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, Mr R retired at age 59. So, this should be the basis for the calculations. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Burley has 
received notification of Mr Rs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Burley to pay Mr R.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Burley deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Burley should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any Page 13  of 13interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Burley Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Burley Financial Services Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Burley 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Burley Financial Services Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Burley Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Burley Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr R in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman