DRN-3780461
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard closed her account 
without notice or reason. She would like the account reinstated. She is also unhappy they 
will not credit her with reward points she earned. She would like these credited or the money 
equivalent and compensation.
What happened
Mrs S had an account with Barclaycard. 
Following a review Barclaycard decided to close Mrs Ss account. They sent her a letter 
dated 13 January 2021 giving Mrs S two months notice to close her account.
On 16 March Mrs S was sent a letter confirming the account had closed on 14 March 2021.
Mrs Ss account with Barclaycard earned her rewards points. She was unhappy that she 
wasnt credited with the points she earned in April. 
She complained to Barclaycard. They said they were entitled to close the account and relied 
on the terms and conditions of the account. In respect of the rewards points Mrs S was told 
because her account was closing, they couldnt credit the missing points to her account.
Mrs S was unhappy with the response, so she complained to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She said Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong 
when it reviewed and subsequently decided to close Mrs Ss account. She also thought 
Barclays hadnt been unfair when it wouldnt credit the missing rewards points.
Mrs S was unhappy with the view. She said she was particularly unhappy that her April 
statement reward points werent credited to her account. She said they were earned whilst 
the account was open. Had she known she would have used a different card to make her 
purchases. She would have liked Barclaycard to have drawn her attention to this and quoted 
a specific term and condition.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Ss account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Barclaycard were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mrs Ss account. 
Mrs S received a letter informing her Barclaycard were closing her account. As the 
investigator explained its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they 
want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. 
Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial 
institution must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their 
account closed.
Ive considered whether Barclaycard acted fairly in closing Mrs Ss account. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of the account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that Barclaycard can close a customers account with two months notice, and in 
certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Barclays closed 
Mrs Ss account and gave her two months notice. Having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that Barclaycard has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to 
close the account as its already done. It follows I wont be asking Barclaycard to reinstate 
the account.
Mrs S has said she would like to know the reasons why the account was closed. Whilst 
Mrs S may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Barclaycard isnt required 
to give her a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Barclaycard has done 
anything wrong by not giving Mrs S this information  as much as shed like to know.
Mrs S has mentioned she is unhappy that she wasnt credited with the rewards points she 
earned in April. She said she wanted the points credited to her account or to be given the 
money so she could purchase the monetary equivalent of the reward points.
I appreciate Mrs S is very upset at losing the reward points, she has said Barclaycard 
shouldve let her know she wouldnt get credited for those points. She has told us she 
wouldve used a different card to make the purchases. 
I recognise that Mrs S is very unhappy and frustrated by this situation. I have looked at the 
terms and conditions of the reward scheme and I can see that in this case Barclaycard are 
entitled to withhold the points earned in April 2021 because Mrs Ss account usage was 
restricted in accordance with the terms and conditions in March 2021. And although Mrs S 
says she earned the points in March they didnt credit until after the account was restricted. 
Im satisfied Mrs S agreed to these terms when she signed up for the card so I cant say 
Barclaycard have acted unfairly here. I know she says Barclaycard should have told her she 
wasnt going to earn any more points, but I dont think they are obliged to provide that 
information to her.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman