DRN-4185700
The complaint
Mrs H complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt refund her policy excess after she 
made a claim under her home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs L had a Plumbing and Draining Plus HomeServe policy with Aviva. The policy provides 
cover for, amongst other things, leaking pipes within the home, blocked drains, blockages to 
sinks and toilets, leaks, blockages to the water supply pipe, and dripping or seized taps. 
Mrs H says she noticed a leak in her cupboard in February. Since she has home emergency 
insurance she contacted Aviva who arranged for someone to go out to her a few days later. 
Mrs H says the engineer was at her property for a matter of minutes and told her the leak 
was the boiler pipe and this wasnt covered on the policy. 
Mrs H had paid a £30 excess which the engineer told her she would be reimbursed for since 
he hadnt done anything. Mrs H contacted Aviva and was told since the engineer had to 
come out the fee wouldnt be reimbursed. Mrs H says when an engineer came out to check 
a leak previously she received a refund of the excess so she doesnt understand why she 
isnt getting one now.
Mrs H says shes had to pay £300 to get the boiler fixed herself. She wants Aviva to refund 
the excess and pay her something towards the cost of repairing the boiler, and so she 
complained to Aviva. 
Aviva said since it carried out investigation work during the engineers visit no refund of the 
fee is due under the terms of the policy. Aviva apologised if Mrs H was given the impression 
the fee would be refunded. 
Mrs H didnt agree with Avivas response and so referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for her. She said Aviva should refund Mrs H the £30 excess. 
She said the boiler was in the same cupboard the leak was coming from, and Aviva were 
already aware of this because Mrs H told them when she called to report the claim. The 
investigator said if Aviva werent made aware during the call then the engineer would have 
realised on opening the cupboard. And so she didnt think any investigation took place to 
warrant the excess being taken. 
Aviva subsequently provided the calls between Mrs H and Aviva, and also between the 
engineer who attended and Aviva. After listening to the calls the investigator said she didnt 
think Aviva should reimburse the excess since Mrs H was made aware the excess wasnt 
refundable once the engineer visited. The investigator said Aviva applied the terms of the 
policy fairly by declining to refund the excess. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the outcome. She said the engineer told her she would get her 
money back so she thinks its unreasonable for Aviva to refuse to do so. So the complaint 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs H has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation she finds herself in. I have read and considered everything I have received 
carefully. My role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision. 
The nature of home emergency insurance is to cover emergency repairs when things go 
wrong. It isnt a maintenance policy. Mrs H has Plumbing and Draining Plus insurance which 
provides cover for the water pipework, taps, stop taps, water tanks, cold water tanks, 
drainage and waste pipes within your property for which you are legally responsible. 
I can see the policy doesnt provide cover for Mrs Hs boiler. When the engineer attended 
and saw the issue was with the boiler he was unable to repair it since the boiler wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy. So Mrs H arranged for the boiler to be repaired 
herself.  Mrs H has said she wants Aviva to contribute towards the cost of her boiler repair. 
But this isnt something she is entitled to under the terms of the policy, and so I am unable to 
compel Aviva to pay a contribution towards the repair. 
The terms of the policy confirm Mrs Hs excess is, £30 per claim, a separate excess 
payment is required for each claim you make. 
Investigation is defined in the policy as, physical work is undertaken to understand the 
problem but it cannot be resolved under the policy. 
The policy says, if investigation is undertaken and the engineer confirms the problem 
cannot be resolved under the policy, your excess will not be refunded. And this is what 
happened here. The engineer attended Mrs Hs property and inspected the leak. He 
ascertained the leak was related to the boiler and as such wasnt covered by the policy. I 
understand Mrs H says the engineer was only in her home for a matter of minutes but 
Avivas records show he attended for ten minutes and in the at time he would have looked at 
the boiler and pipes to ascertain where the problem was. I think this qualifies as an 
investigation for the purposes of this claim. And as such Im satisfied the excess applies and 
is payable by Mrs H. 
I have listened to the call where Mrs H reports the matter to Aviva. During that call Mrs H told 
the advisor the leak appeared to be coming from around the boiler but she was unable to 
see exactly where it was coming from. There was a discussion about whether Mrs H has 
boiler cover with another provider but she doesnt. The advisor explained that if the engineer 
attends Mrs Hs property and finds the issue is with the boiler, then her excess will not be 
refunded. So Im satisfied Mrs H was made aware that it was unlikely the excess would be 
refunded. 
Mrs H says the engineer told her the excess would be reimbursed. There is no independent 
evidence to support what Mrs H is saying. But even if the engineer did suggest she would 
receive a refund I dont think its fair for Aviva to pay this given its not in the terms of the 
policy. 
Mrs H has said Aviva should pay her £30 as a gesture of goodwill. But I cant compel Aviva 
to do this if I am unable to say its done anything wrong.   Home emergency policies, like Mrs Hs, only cover emergency repairs in certain 
circumstances. It isnt a contract of maintenance or designed to cover general wear and tear. 
So when Mrs H called Aviva to tell it she noticed a leak in her cupboard, Aviva needed to 
look into what was happening to see if the fault was down to something covered by the 
policy. If it was, then Aviva was responsible for putting the fault right. And since the leak was 
not covered under the policy I cant say it has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H 
in declining her claim and charging her an excess for investigating the source of the leak.
I know Mrs H will be disappointment by my decision. However I have looked at whether 
Aviva has acted in line with the policy when dealing with Mrs Hs claim. Having carefully 
reviewed the terms and conditions I think it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs claim about 
Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman