DRN-3638120
The complaint
Mrs S says State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBOI), didnt do enough to help when she fell 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) impersonation / safe account scam. Mrs S 
would like SBOI to reimburse her the money she lost.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mrs S fell victim to an impersonation / safe account scam and transferred 
£25,000 on 16 April 2021 through her online banking. Mrs S uncovered that it was a scam 
after she changed her log-in password and received notifications of failed attempts to access 
her account. Mrs S reported the matter to SBOI in the evening of 16 April 2021 and then 
again early in the morning on 17 April 2021.
SBOI reached out to the beneficiary bank to see if any funds could be recovered. It received 
confirmation that no funds could be recovered / returned, as they had already left the 
beneficiary account prior to Mrs S notifying SBOI of the fraud.
SBOI also didnt consider it could have prevented Mrs Ss loss, as the transfer was 
authorised by Mrs S and it wasnt unusual or out of character given Mrs Ss account activity. 
So it didnt consider that Mrs S was at risk of financial harm and didnt intervene or question 
her about the transfer. 
Unhappy, Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator reviewed everything 
and ultimately didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Broadly summarised, based on 
the information provided by SBOI about Mrs Ss account history, our Investigator didnt think 
SBOI ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent, or have a 
cause for concern that Mrs S was at risk of financial harm or was falling victim to a scam. 
They were also satisfied that SBOI had attempted to recover the funds but unfortunately no 
funds remained that could be returned  so there was nothing further SBOI could do to help 
Mrs S.
As Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
For clarity, this decision focuses solely on the actions of SBOI. Mrs S has raised her 
concerns about the beneficiary bank that received the funds  and that complaint is being 
dealt separately by our service under a different complaint reference.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
SBOI should have done more to prevent Mrs Ss loss. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about SBOIs actions, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Mrs S was a victim of a sophisticated 
and cruel scam. But, in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say SBOI should 
have prevented the loss or that it needs to reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify for Mrs Ss benefit why the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (often referred to as the CRM Code) isnt applicable in this case and 
what the relevant law and regulations were at the time.
The CRM Code is a voluntary code and was implemented to further combat and prevent the 
increase of fraud. SBOI arent a signatory of the CRM Code  which means the provisions of 
the CRM Code dont apply to the transfer Mrs S made. 
The relevant law and regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments, 
transfers and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mrs S authorised the transfer that is in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mrs S is responsible for it. 
That remains the case even though Mrs S was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
But that isnt the end of the story, and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider SBOI should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
What does this mean for Mrs S?
In this case, I need to decide whether SBOI acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs S when she made the transfer, or whether it should have done more than it did. And 
given the above, Ive looked to see whether Mrs Ss transaction was unusual and out of 
character, in order to determine whether SBOI should have stepped in and intervened  
taking some additional steps or checks with Mrs S about the transfer.
SBOI argues that it has fraud detection systems in place to monitor accounts and to look out 
for out of character or unusual transactions. And in this case, based on Mrs Ss account 
history, the transfer didnt flag for further checking as it wasnt unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to her normal account activity. SBOI say that Mrs S made a total of 79 
transactions since 2010 where the amounts involved four to six figure sums and 58 of those 
transactions were between £20,000 and £25,000.
Having carefully reviewed this aspect, I agree with SBOIs position and reasoning here. I 
cant say the transfer Mrs S made was unusual or out of character  to an extent whereby I 
think SBOI needed to step in or intervene and question Mrs S further. 
I say this because Mrs Ss account history shows that she often made large payments. And 
in particular, in the 12 months leading up to the transfer, Mrs S made 13 payments of 
£25,000. So I dont think the transfer amount in itself was unusual or out of character. 
While I appreciate Mrs S made those payments to existing accounts in her name, I am also 
mindful it shows that Mrs S had set up accounts in her own name and made large payments 
to them and frequently. So when a new payee was set up and the beneficiary was Mrs Ss 
name, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that this would have alerted SBOI that something 
untoward was possibly going on or that Mrs S was at risk of financial harm. The activity 
simply wasnt unusual or out of character in comparison to how she typically ran her 
account. 
I am also mindful that SBOI didnt have Confirmation of Payee (COP) implemented  so it 
wouldnt have known that the beneficiary account name Mrs S had entered, didnt match. 
While I understand Mrs Ss frustrations as she believes this would have prevented the scam 
 SBOI wasnt obligated to have COP in place. So I cant fairly hold this against SBOI when 
it wasnt required to have COP implemented.
Overall, I dont think there were grounds for SBOI to be suspicious Mrs S may be a victim of 
fraud when she made the transfer. All things considered, I think the fact that SBOI didnt flag 
the transfer as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.I have also gone on to look at whether SBOI acted promptly and in a timely manner in trying 
to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. I appreciate Mrs Ss 
frustration as she notified SBOI as early as she could. She was trying to act as quickly as 
possible and reported the matter. Unfortunately no funds were able to be recovered from 
the beneficiary bank account. Scammers usually move on or remove funds immediately to 
avoid the possibility of them being recovered. And that was the case here. So I dont think 
SBOI, even if it had acted instantly on the evening of 16 April 2021, would have been able 
to recover any funds from the beneficiary bank as the funds had been moved on. So 
despite Mrs Ss acting as quickly as she could in reporting the matter there wasnt anything 
SBOI could have done.
Im very sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs S. She was the victim of a cruel scam, but 
overall, I dont think SBOI could reasonably have identified Mrs S was at risk of financial 
harm given her account history. And I think SBOIs decision not to refund her in this instance 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because it followed Mrs Ss 
instructions to make the payment and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done 
this. And unfortunately, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do anything to help Mrs S 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman