DRN-1804804
 
The complaint 
Mr Rs complaint is about the quality of a car financed through an agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I dont agree with the business that this isnt a regulated agreement. The Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 2013 made amendments to the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and explained that a credit agreement was an exempt 
agreement if the lender provides the borrower with credit exceeding £25,000 and the 
agreement was entered into by the borrower wholly or predominantly for the 
purposes of a business carried on, or intended to be carried on, by the borrower. 
This agreement was for less than £25,000 so it is a regulated credit agreement.
Mr R had a short term right to reject the car if anything was wrong with it when he 
took receipt, and if he reported that in the first thirty days. Im persuaded something 
was wrong with the car as I can see MotoNovo have accepted that and have offered 
a repair. I can also see that Mr R has provided evidence of the oil leak from two 
separate third party garages and that the MOT mentions it as an advisory.
Im persuaded Mr R complained within 30 days and that he should be allowed to 
reject the car instead of it being repaired. I say that because Im persuaded he took 
receipt of the car on 30 May 2019 and complained to MotoNovo on 25 June 2019.
Im persuaded the date of receipt was 30 May 2019 as Ive seen that the registration 
certificate was completed on that date and that the MOT was completed at a garage 
close to the dealership on 28 May 2019. I think its likely the MOT would have been 
completed before Mr R took receipt of the car and that the registration certificate 
would have been completed on the day the car was handed over to him.
Ive also seen the vehicle invoice that suggests additional work will need to be 
completed before the car is handed over. The date of that invoice is 28 May 2019 so 
its clear the car would not have been handed over at this point. 
Since Mr R asked to reject the vehicle I can see hes had further problems with it 
overheating in October 2019. As this has happened within the first six months of 
ownership I think its most likely the fault that required the thermostat to be replaced 
was developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr R. I think it would therefore be 
fair for MotoNovo to refund any costs relating to this work as the costs would not 
have been incurred had they allowed rejection when they should have and because 
the fault was most probably developing when the car was supplied.
 For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
So MotoNovo should allow Mr R to reject the car but its clear Mr R has been able to 
complete significant mileage in it. So I dont think it would be fair for any of the finance 
instalments to be refunded. Hes been denied the opportunity to reject the car when he 
should have and has had to return it for repairs. So I think MotoNovo should compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced and, in the circumstances, I would 
agree that £150 is reasonable. MotoNovo should also refund the cost of any diagnostics, 
repairs or parts Mr R required to resolve the overheating issue with the car in October 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Rs 
complaint, FirstRand Bank Limited should:
allow Mr R to reject the car and terminate his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr R;
pay Mr R £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund any costs for repair, diagnosis or parts that Mr R can provide receipts for and 
that relate to the requirement to replace the thermostat on the car in October 2019.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman