DRN-3665964
The complaint
R complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under 
their property insurance policy.
What happened
R is a property management company for a block of flats. They have a Blocks of Flats 
insurance policy underwritten by RSA. This covers buildings and residents contents, 
amongst other things.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here.
In short, R made a claim in 2016 after discovering water leaking at the back of the property. 
RSA accepted the claim and appointed surveyors. They identified issues with the drainage 
pipework from two soil stacks leading into a manhole in the grounds behind the flats. And 
they specified the repair works that should be carried out.
RSA then appointed contractors to carry out the works. R say that the contractors appeared 
not to follow the surveyors instructions at the time. However, the leak appeared to have 
been repaired.
R contacted RSA again in 2020, having discovered water leaking in the same area of the 
property.
RSA appointed a surveyor and, on their recommendation, a company to carry out a CCTV 
survey of the pipework and drains. This resulted in a set of repair proposals and RSA 
appointed contractors to carry them out.
R say that when the contractors arrived to carry out repairs, they dismissed the survey 
reports and the proposed repair schedule and suggested alternative measures to fix the 
problem.
R didnt agree and the contractors left without undertaking any of the repair work. R then 
commissioned their own survey. This recommended slightly different repairs to those 
proposed by RSAs surveyor. And, according to R, it also found that the repair work in 2016 
hadnt been carried out in line with the surveyors recommendations at that time.
R made a complaint to RSA about their handling of the matter. And when RSA didnt provide 
a final response, they brought their complaint to our service.
R want RSA to arrange proper repairs to all drains and pipework in the area affected by the 
leak. And they want RSA to commit to carrying out CCTV checks on completion to ensure all 
issues have been effectively addressed.
They want RSA to ensure the safety and security of the residents affected whilst the works 
are carried out. And they want RSA to accept that the issues in 2020 are a continuation of 
those they experienced in 2016. At the moment, RSA have recorded the 2020 contact as a 
new and separate claim, which R believe has affected their premiums.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. He said RSA had agreed to 
cover Rs surveyor costs (£216), which was fair and reasonable.
He thought it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to conclude that the damage in 2020 was in a 
different part of the pipework to that repaired in 2016, so it was fair to record two separate 
claims  one in 2016 and one in 2020.
He said RSA should assess the claim and now carry out repairs which were lasting and 
effective. And he said Rs complaint about the price of their premiums might best be treated 
as a separate complaint, to be addressed after its finally established whether there should 
be two claims recorded by RSA or one.
R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I didnt agree with the outcome proposed by our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision. This gave R and RSA a chance to provide more information or evidence and/or to 
comment on my thinking before I make my final decision, which is this services last word on 
the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the evidence currently available to us, its not straightforward to determine 
exactly what repairs were specified in 2016, whether these were in fact carried out, 
and how the presumed damage to the drains in 2016 relates to the damage now 
identified by the various surveyors in 2020.
Thats at least in part because the surveyors use different terminologies to describe 
the various parts of the drainage system. And none of the surveyors reports weve 
seen actually includes a diagram to show how the drainage system as a whole is set 
up.
If RSA have further reports and/or a diagrammatic depiction of the drains and the 
areas identified as needing repair, then I suggest they provide that to us in response 
to this provisional decision.
There are four relevant surveys. One in 2016, provided by a company appointed by 
RSA that Ill refer to as A. Three in 2020. The first provided by a company appointed 
by RSA Ill refer to as B. This recommended a further CCTV investigation. This was 
carried out by a company Ill refer to as C, who specified the repairs they thought 
were necessary. And R later commissioned their own survey  provided by a 
company Ill refer to as D.
In 2016, A appear to have identified issues with two separate soil vent pipes at the 
rear of the property.One soil vent pipe (SVP 1) carries wastewater from the bathroom of the upstairs flat 
and goes through the kitchen of the downstairs flat before exiting the property via a 
pipe which leads to a chamber underneath a manhole cover in the grounds.
The other (SVP 2) carries waste from the toilet of the downstairs flat. Its not entirely 
clear to me whether  and, if so, at what point  SVP 2 joins either SVP 1 or the pipe 
under the grounds leading to the chamber beneath the manhole. Again, if either party 
has a diagram depicting the drainage system  or other information which might help 
 Id suggest they provide it in response to this provisional decision.
In terms of the required repairs, A said the pipe at SVP 1 (the kitchen stack) should 
be replaced.
As for SVP 2 (the toilet stack) they said the junction should be replaced, along with 
0.5 metres of the backdrop shaft (again, its not entirely clear exactly where the 
junction or backdrop shaft is). They said roots should be removed and jetting carried 
out, to enable a liner to be fitted along a 3 metre section of the pipework of SVP 2 
(again, its not entirely clear what section of pipe this refers to).
As report was very clear that in order to carry out this work (on SVP 2), the 
contractors would need to work inside the flat and remove the toilet and the boxing 
around it.
R say that when the contractors turned up, they said this wasnt necessary and 
worked exclusively outside - and certainly didnt remove the toilet and/or boxing.
R also say they asked RSA to provide a report / invoice for the work done by the 
contractors in 2016, to show how far theyd met As specification.
RSA told them they didnt have any report or invoice  and RSA havent provided us 
with any documentation to show what works were actually carried out in 2016. Again, 
if RSA have any evidence about the work carried out in 2016, they should provide it 
in response to this provisional decision.
The first report in 2020  provided by B  identified the same symptoms as A had 
done in 2016. That is, water leaking into the wall at the rear of the property (below 
the internal floor level) and pooling in the alley at the side of the property. B said this 
was most likely due to a leak in a union or boss joint on the soil stack underneath the 
floor in the downstairs flat.
Unfortunately, B didnt specify whether this was a leak in SVP 1, SVP 2, or both. To 
be fair, that was probably because they couldnt tell  and almost undoubtedly why 
they suggested a CCTV survey be carried out.
RSA appointed C to carry out that CCTV survey. Again, Cs report noted the same 
manifestation of the leak as in 2016  damp on the back wall of the property at a low 
level, with water pooling in the alley.
C reported that the rest bend of SVP 1 (the kitchen stack) was broken. They 
recommended lining the rest bend and the SVP (after work to deal with roots and 
jetting). They also said the backdrop at the manhole needed to be replaced with new 
PVC pipework.
R commissioned D to carry out a survey after theyd rejected the work proposed by 
the contractors, which they said didnt tally with Cs recommendations.D said the gully to the manhole needed replacing. Im assuming this is much the 
same work C specified when they referred to replacing the backdrop at the manhole. 
If either R or RSA disagree with that, they should say so  and explain why  in their 
response to this provisional decision.
D also said the rest bend was broken. Im assuming this is the same rest bend C 
identified as broken (the one on SVP 1  the kitchen stack). But D said this should be 
replaced with new PVC pipework, rather than lined as C suggested.
D arent specific about which SVP they refer to in their report. But, assuming the logic 
set out above is correct  and that C and D are referring to the same broken rest 
bend  D also said they detected an existing liner on that SVP, which I take to be 
SVP 1, the kitchen stack.
This is significant because the work specified by A, in 2016, said the pipe at SVP 1 
(the kitchen stack) should be replaced, not lined. And A said a liner should be put in 
place on SVP 2 (the toilet stack). And we know the contractors didnt remove the 
toilet or boxing, as A suggested they would have to do to carry out the repairs on 
SVP 2.
Where insurers accept a claim and agree to repair a property, we would expect those 
repairs to be lasting and effective.
As things stand, Im minded to uphold Rs complaint. That might change if Im 
provided with new and better information about whats happened. But looking at the 
information I have now, it would appear most likely, on balance, that the work carried 
out in 2016 was not what was specified by A. And was therefore likely not an 
effective and lasting repair.
It appears SVP 1  which A said should be replaced  was lined. It appears the rest 
bend on that stack  which I assume A intended should be replaced  is currently 
broken (which raises the question whether it was already broken in 2016).
And it appears SVP 2  which should have been lined  may not have been repaired 
at all. Or, at the very least, not repaired in the way A suggested, given that the 
contractors didnt remove the toilet and boxing.
Even leaving aside the technicalities of the drainage system and the repairs specified 
and actually carried out, it seems to me that if you take a step back, whats broadly 
happened here is as follows.
R reported an issue and made a claim in 2016, because they had water leaking into 
the wall at the rear of the property and pooling in the alleyway.
RSA accepted the claim and say they carried out the necessary repairs (which 
should be lasting and effective). But around four years later, R have what appears to 
be exactly the same issue  a damp back wall and water pooling in the alleyway.
RSA are asking R  and our service  to accept that the 2016 repairs were effective 
and lasting and that the issues in 2020 are entirely new and related to a different part 
of the pipework. Theyre also asking us to believe that those new issues werent  
and could not have been  apparent in 2016.In light of the fact that the contractors who carried out the work in 2016 seem  on 
the basis of the evidence currently available at least  to have ignored the work 
specification set out by A, Im not persuaded by RSAs argument, as things stand.
RSA have also said that the repairs in 2016 did stop the leak  with no issues until 
the leak in 2020 was spotted. Im not convinced that means the repairs in 2016 were 
lasting and effective.
My position might change if I receive new information or evidence  thats the point of 
issuing a provisional decision now. But, Im minded as things stand to uphold the 
complaint.
Im also minded to require RSA to agree with R a new scope of works, to be carried 
out as soon as practically possible, to ensure lasting and effective repairs are carried 
out to all of the pipework and drains at the rear of the property.
At a minimum, that scope of works should include all the repairs specified by A in 
2016, plus the work recommended by C and D in 2020.
Where C and D agree on the problem but disagree on the remedy, Im inclined to 
require RSA to go with Ds recommendations  which on the face of it appear to give 
the most likely route to an effective and lasting solution and which R indicate are 
acceptable to them.
I also note that A said in 2016 that SVP 1 needed replacing, rather than lining  
which tallies with what D are saying now. And that the lining of that pipe in 2016 
appears to have failed now  which leads me to question whether trying to same 
thing again would be a likely route to providing a lasting and effective repair.
It goes without saying that RSA should ensure the safety and security of the 
residents whilst the work is being carried out. And that they should ensure that the 
works are inspected on completion to check that the pipework and drains and pipes 
are sound following repair.
R have said theyd like a CCTV survey at that stage. That sounds like one 
reasonable means to check the repairs have been completed successfully, but Im 
minded not to be so specific and to require RSA either to carry out a CCTV survey or 
otherwise satisfy themselves - and R  that lasting and effective repairs have been 
carried out.
Im also minded to require RSA to record the 2020 contact as an extension of the 
2016 claim, rather than a new claim. And to recalculate Rs premiums on that basis, 
providing a refund if appropriate.
Finally, Im minded to require RSA to pay R £250 in compensation. R is a corporate 
body, which cant suffer distress or upset, but can suffer inconvenience.
R has been significantly inconvenienced by the need to commission their own 
surveyors report and by the need to make their representations and arguments to 
RSA. I note also that RSA have been unable to explain to R what repairs were 
actually carried out in 2016, which has unnecessarily prolonged and complicated the 
debate.
Im assuming RSA have paid R the £216 it cost to commission Ds report, as they 
said they would. But if they havent yet done so, they should do so now.And on that basis, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint and to require RSA to take 
the actions specified above.
The responses to my provisional decision
RSA responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add.
R provided some further comments and another CCTV survey report. They asked another 
company, which Ill refer to as E, to inspect the drains and pipes and make 
recommendations about any necessary remedial work. Es inspection was carried out in late 
July, at around the same time that I issued my provisional decision.
Much of what R said in response to my provisional decision was further information or 
argument to support the upholding of the complaint. R will understand if I dont repeat that 
here, given that RSA havent given me any reason to re-consider my provisional decision in 
any case.
Im grateful to R for providing clarification about the layout of the pipes and drains at the 
property. That was very helpful for my understanding and confirmed much of what Id 
assumed.
R also said they wouldnt be happy if the contractors and surveyors previously used by RSA 
 in 2016 and 2020  played any part now in either setting out the scheme of work required 
to settle the claim or carrying out the work itself. 
They want to choose the contractor(s) themselves. And they want RSA to formally confirm in 
writing that they will pay for all of the works specified in the previous reports (presumably 
including the work specified in the latest report, provided by E). 
They also want RSA to pay for Es report, which cost £300. And to provide a nominated 
contact for R at RSA whilst the further work is carried out.
R also want me to specify that RSA must include in the scheduled works both: drying out of 
the areas of the building which have been affected by the water leaks; and decontamination 
of those areas of the building.
R have clarified what they meant by their previous assertion that RSA should ensure the 
safety and security of the residents whilst the work is being carried out. They want RSA to 
provide alternative accommodation for the residents and their pets whilst the work is on-
going.
R have also reiterated that they want the 2020 contact to be recorded on RSAs systems and 
a continuation of the 2016 claim - and not as a new and separate claim in itself. And that 
they think their premiums are unjustifiably high. R have asked us to carry out a review of the 
premiums.
And they want me to require RSA to given them a breakdown of the work actually carried out 
in 2016.
Finally, R asked that any instructions given to RSA in my final decision should be watertight 
and legally enforceable.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I would be making certain assumptions if there was no 
further evidence or information provided by either party. Most of those assumptions  based 
on the evidence and information we had at the time  went essentially in favour of R.
RSA have been given the opportunity to provide more information and/or to comment on my 
thinking and to point out where they think I may have been mistaken.
In fact, theyve provided no further information or comment. It shouldnt therefore be a 
surprise to RSA that Im upholding Rs complaint and maintaining my position about what 
RSA need to do now to put things right.
Turning to Rs comments, this decision  assuming they (R) accept it  is binding on RSA 
and is legally enforceable.
Ill have to ask R to understand that its not the role of our service to act as an alternative 
claims handler or loss adjuster for RSA. Our role is to look at what has already happened, 
consider whether RSA have made errors or omissions and, if so, determine what they need 
to do to put those right.
We cant direct RSA about how to run their operations in detail. And its not for us to predict 
all possible future issues or problems and head those off in advance, just in case. For 
example, its not for me to require RSA to sign a formal written agreement about the repair 
works. As I say, RSA will be bound by this decision (assuming R accept it). 
I can understand Rs reservations and concerns about how things progress from here, given 
their experience so far. But Ill have to ask them to understand that Im not empowered to do 
everything theyve asked in their response to my provisional decision.
That said, I agree with R that RSA shouldnt use the agents and/or contractors previously 
involved - in 2016 and 2020 - to resolve the claim now. Im not going to go so far as to 
require RSA to pay for any contractor(s) R chooses. That would be unfair to RSA because 
theyd be committed to a cost they had no control over.
What Id suggest is that where RSA intend to use a loss adjustor, surveyor or builder / 
drainage company(or any other agent or contractor), they provide a list of at least three 
options and allow R to choose one form that list. This is in line with our usual approach in 
these kinds of circumstances.
Id also agree with R that RSA need to provide a contact for R who will deal with the claim 
from here on in. I understand that contact may not always be available to answer Rs queries 
and questions immediately, but it seems sensible - and a matter of good customer service  
to have a nominated RSA employee who is leading on the management of the claim.
My provisional decision said that I was minded to require RSA to agree a schedule of works 
with R, to include, at the very least, all of the repairs specified in the reports from A, C and D 
(see also my comments above about which recommendation to go with where they are 
conflicting). And Im standing by that now, given RSAs lack of comment.
As part of that, Im going to require RSA to consider whether drying out and decontamination 
works are necessary as part of the settlement of the claim. I have no reason to believe they wouldnt be required - and Rs request that they are carried out seems entirely reasonable.
But its not for me to direct the detail of the claim handling from now on. And I note these 
issues werent specifically raised as part of Rs complaint to RSA, or to us. If R are unhappy 
with the proposed schedule of works, they would be entitled to make a further complaint to 
RSA  and then to us if theyre not satisfied with RSAs response.
The same principles apply to Rs request for alternative accommodation (AA). I can require 
RSA to consider whether AA should be provided under the terms of the policy, once its 
absolutely clear what works are to be carried out and how long they might take. But Im not 
going to pre-empt any decision they have to make on that issue now  again, especially 
since this has not been raised previously in the complaints to RSA and to us.
And the same applies to the findings of Es report. It seems to me that some parts of this 
report simply confirm that repairs need to be carried out on areas of the soil vent pipes 
and/or the pipes leading from them to the manhole. In other words, E confirm some of the 
issues identified by A, C and D  and confirm what needs to be done now in terms of repairs.
Where different repairs entirely are suggested (if at all), RSA will be entitled to consider 
whether the damage identified is covered under the policy and, if so, what remedial works 
need to be undertaken. 
At the same time, RSA will be entitled to make a judgement about whether they should pay 
for Es report. On the face of it, it wasnt entirely necessary for R to commission a further 
report, given that A, C and Ds reports all suggested that there were issues with the drains 
and pipes and that these needed repairs. 
But if E have in fact identified other issues which are accepted to be a legitimate part of the 
claim (and require repairs covered under the policy), then I think RSA should pay R the cost 
of obtaining Es report.
In terms of Rs request for a breakdown of the work carried out in 2016, RSA have been 
fairly clear already that they have no such document. Thats very unfortunate, but R will 
appreciate that I cant require RSA to produce something that doesnt exist. 
I hope R are consoled by the fact that if it did exist, that document  if accurate  could only 
confirm what Ive assumed to be true in any case, that the works carried out in 2016 were 
not what A had specified.
I note the comments made by R about the cost of their premiums. As set out in my 
provisional decision, Im going to require RSA to recalculate any premiums paid since the 
contact from R in 2020 about the on-going issues. 
Those re-calculations must assume that the contact in 2020 is essentially a re-visiting of the 
same claim made in 2016  that they are, in essence, one claim, not two. And Im going to 
require RSA to pay a refund to R if the re-calculated premiums are cheaper.
If R are still unhappy with the price of their insurance policy after that, they would be entitled 
to make a complaint to RSA and then bring it to us if they arent satisfied with RSAs 
response.
Putting things right
RSA have given me no reason to reconsider my provisional decision and the actions I was 
minded to require them to take. So, they must now carry out those actions in full (as set out above and in my provisional decision).
For the sake of complete clarity, they must not use any of the contractors previously involved 
in the claim in 2016 or more recently. And they should agree in advance with R any 
contractors they do use (be they surveyors, loss adjusters or builders / drainage companies).
RSA must also provide a primary contact for R during the on-going handling of the claim and 
the period when the works are carried out.
Im also going to require RSA to consider, at the appropriate time: whether drying out and/or 
decontamination is necessary to settle the claim effectively; whether any or all of the affected 
residents should be moved into alternative accommodation during the works; whether Es 
report identifies further issues with the pipes and drains that need to be addressed in the 
schedule of works; and whether they should pay R the cost of obtaining Es report.
I should say at this point that none of this should be taken to preclude the cash settlement of 
the claim, if thats something that both parties can agree on.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Rs complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
As soon as practically possible, prepare and agree with R a schedule of works to 
address the on-going issues with their drains and pipes and provide lasting and 
effective repairs. That schedule should be based on the existing surveyors reports 
(as set out in my provisional decision) and any further damage identified by E which 
is covered by the policy.
As soon as practically possible after that, carry out all necessary repairs to rectify any 
damage covered under the policy. Those works are to include as a minimum the 
repairs recommended by A, C and D (as set out in my provisional decision).
Consider, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, whether some or all of 
the residents should be provided with alternative accommodation for any period 
when the works are being carried out.
Consider, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, whether drying out and 
decontamination work should be included in the schedule of works.
Consider whether they should pay R the cost (£300) of obtaining Es report in July 
2022.
Use contractors - to prepare the schedule of works and carry it out - agreed with R in 
advance (as per my directions above).
Nominate a primary contact for R for the duration of the claim.
When the works are completed, carry out appropriate checks to satisfy themselves 
that the repairs are lasting and effective.
Amend their records to show that the claim made by R in 2020 is a continuation of 
the 2016 claim, rather than a separate claim.Re-calculate any premiums paid by R since the contact in 2020, on the basis that R 
have made one claim, not two. And refund R the difference, if there is any.
Pay R £250 in compensation for the inconvenience theyve been caused.
Pay R £216 to cover the cost of obtaining Ds report, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman