DRN-2036712
The complaint
Mr G complains Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) obtained a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) against him without informing him. He asks for the court costs to be 
refunded and compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
What happened
Mr G had a loan debt with a third-party company which Cabot bought and assumed legal 
ownership of. In August 2013 Cabot wrote to him to let him know it had taken over the 
account and that his current payment arrangement remained in place. It said he could 
continue with the repayments or repay the balance in full. 
Cabot received payments totalling £60.00 on the account until March 2014. But no further 
payments were received after this date. It says it tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr G 
numerous times and eventually instructed its solicitors to act in this matter.
On 13 November 2014, the solicitors sent Mr G a letter requesting he contact them and 
explaining failure to do so could result in legal action. As they received no response, a letter 
before claim was issued on 28 November 2014 to the address it had on file and legal 
proceedings were commenced in December 2014.
A CCJ was obtained on 23 January 2015.
Mr G says he wasnt living at the address at the time legal proceedings were started and that 
Cabot had his email address and telephone number, but he didnt receive any 
communication from them. He only recently obtained his credit file and discovered the 
existence of the CCJ. Mr G was extremely upset at his discovery and complained to Cabot. 
He said Cabot had his correct address for a secondary account and should have been able 
to trace his address.
In its final response issued 3 December 2019, Cabot didnt uphold his complaint. It said:
. it remains your responsibility to ensure your creditors are up to date with your current 
address and you have acknowledged the accounts existence through payments made to. I 
also add that we can take legal action at the last known address for our customers should 
we not be informed of a forwarding address.
It went onto say the secondary account with the same third-party lender wasnt purchased by 
Cabot until 2017 and although this did have his new address, it wasnt privy to this 
information when it obtained the CCJ in 2015.
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr G. She looked at Mr Gs account history and 
couldnt find any evidence that Mr G had updated Cabot with his new address or that hed 
made any further repayments on the account since March 2014. On balance she felt Cabot 
had acted fairly and reasonably and so didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr G disagreed. He felt Cabot should have tried to trace him or contacted him on his mobile 
or email address. He remains of the view Cabot should have been aware of his new address 
and so he asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same view as the investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, Ill 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G doesnt dispute his liability for the debt. Because the CCJ was obtained in the courts I 
cant consider that. But I can look into whether Cabot treated Mr C fairly in the lead up to that 
and if Cabot acted reasonably in attempting to collect the payments he was expected to 
make.
Ive looked at Mr Gs account history and the contact notes provided by Cabot. I can see 
between January 2014 and November 2014 there are upwards of 100 attempts to contact Mr 
G by telephone. In some cases, Cabot left messages and in others telephone call was 
attempted, in all cases it was unsuccessful in contacting Mr G.
Ive looked at the letter dated 13 November 2014, it explained the debt remained outstanding 
and asked Mr G to contact it urgently, it also informed Mr G it intended to start legal 
proceedings. Further letters were issued in November and December 2014, the December 
letter says Mr Gs account has been selected for possible legal action.
The letters were all sent to address Cabot had on file and the telephone calls were all made 
to the telephone number it had on file so Im of the view it did all it could to contact Mr G to 
discuss his account and arrange a repayment plan before legal proceedings were issued.
Im of the view it was Mr Gs responsibility to make Cabot aware that hed changed his 
address and I dont think Cabot could be expected to send information anywhere but to the 
last address it held for him.
I appreciate Mr G has said Cabot purchased another account from the same third-party 
lender and should have been aware of his new address. But Cabot only became aware of 
this information in 2017 so I cant say it could have known about it when the CCJ was 
obtained in 2015.
Overall, Im satisfied Cabot has acted fairly and reasonably in attempting to contact Mr G to 
give him further chances to reach a repayment agreement and in notifying him of its 
intentions to take legal action if Mr G didnt respond and so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman