DRN-2868715
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) failed to change his 
direct debit instructions which resulted in interest being charged on his account.  
What happened
 Mr H asked Barclaycard to change his direct debit instructions so that it would clear the full 
outstanding balance each month. This request wasnt actioned, and the direct debit 
continued to only pay the minimum amount due resulting in interest being incurred on the 
balance. Mr H made many attempts to contact Barclaycard during this time, by phone, letter 
and branch visits. But it wasnt until many months later that the issue was resolved. 
Mr H raised a complaint asking Barclaycard to compensate him for what had gone wrong. 
Barclaycard accepted that it had failed to change the direct debit instructions. It refunded all 
interest incurred on the account during that time and offered £100 compensation by way of 
an apology. Mr H remained unhappy. He wants Barclaycard to pay him for each phone call, 
letter and branch visit based on a fee structure hes produced for his time. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and he thought Barclaycard needed to do more to 
put things right. He said it was clear Mr H had spent a great deal of his time chasing 
Barclaycard and £100 didnt fairly reflect the impact this had on him. As such, he 
recommended that Barclaycard pay a further £150, bringing compensation to a total of £250.
Barclaycard accepted this outcome. But Mr H hasnt. He feels the compensation is still too 
low. And hes asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So its for me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr H made a request to change his direct debit instructions. 
Barclaycard has accepted that it asked Mr H to call in to make this request, and it has 
records that he did so on that date. But the instructions werent carried out. And subsequent 
calls and letters went unanswered. 
Based on this, I dont need to make a finding on whether Barclaycard did something wrong  
it did. What I need to decide is whether Barclaycard has done enough to put things right. 
Barclaycard has refunded all the interest charged on Mr Hs account between the date of the 
request being made and the date it was actioned. This puts Mr H back in the financial 
position he wouldve been in had Barclaycard changed the direct debit instructions when 
originally asked. 
What remains in dispute is the level of compensation offered to Mr H. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im persuaded Mr H has experienced trouble and upset as a result of Barclaycards 
actions. I say this because of the amount of time hes had to spend chasing for a response, 
using different contact methods, over a period of around eight months. I have no doubt this 
wouldve been frustrating and inconvenient for him. 
Im also mindful that whilst Mr Hs initial request was made before the Covid-19 pandemic, 
the majority of the time he spent chasing Barclaycard was during a time when it was 
responding to government-imposed restrictions. This meant branches were closed and staff 
were being set up to work from home which wouldve affected its ability to answer calls and 
respond to post. 
Taking of all this into account, Im satisfied the compensation recommended by our 
investigator of £250 is fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr H has put together a fee structure of his time spent on this matter. But our 
service doesnt generally make compensation payments based on units of time or hourly 
rates. Rather, we look at the overall impact a business mistake had on the complainant. And 
I see no reason to depart from that approach in this case.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and asking Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Mr H a total of £250 compensation. If the £100 initially offered has already been 
paid, then Barclays Bank UK PLC only needs to pay the additional £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman