DRN-2739548
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold him an endowment 
policy in 1983.
What happened
Mr F took out an endowment policy on 8 February 1983, which was administered by Aviva. 
He complained that it was mis-sold, as he says he only received £10,500 upon maturity 
instead of the £17,000 he was told it would achieve. Mr F says he was wrongly advised and 
that the policy had been mis-sold to him.
Aviva explained that it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy, as Mr F had taken it out 
through W Stewart Insurance Services (WSIS)  an independent financial advisor  who 
would have been responsible for advising Mr F and for ensuring the policy was suitable. 
However, the company no longer exists so Aviva were unable to refer Mr Fs complaint for 
him.
Our investigator agreed that Aviva was not responsible for the sale of Mr Fs endowment 
policy and explained we were unable to consider the complaint against it as a result. And 
given that the independent financial advisors that did sell the policy no longer existed, we 
werent able to consider it against them either, so it wasnt something we could help with. 
Mr F disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
Its clear that Mr F is unhappy with the way the policy was sold to him, as he feels he was 
wrongly advised about the product he was taking. However, Aviva has explained  and I 
accept  that it is not responsible for the sale of the policy as it was WSIS that sold it and 
provided the advice. So this is not an act or omission that Aviva can be held responsible for, 
as it is only responsible for the administration of the policy in these circumstances.
Usually in such circumstances, we would direct Mr F to complain to the appropriate firm 
responsible. But unfortunately, WSIS is no longer trading, so there is no respondent firm that 
can be held responsible for the sale of the policy or the advice he was given. In some 
instances, a complaint can be made to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) when a respondent firm is no longer trading, so long as the event (i.e. the sale of 
the policy or advice) took place on or after 28 August 1988. But given that Mr Fs policy was 
sold by WSIS in 1983, its unlikely the FSCS will be able to assist either in these 
circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F on this occasion, but there is no evidence to suggest that Aviva 
is responsible for the sale of his policy or the advice he received, so I will not be directing it 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman