DRN-3719527
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) has declined his claim for the 
cost of treatment for his dog on the ground that the treatment was for a pre-existing 
condition.
What happened
Mr P insured his dog, who Ill refer to as B, with GLI on 30 July 2021. His policy includes an 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions defined as 
anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months. 
We consider advice to include anything a vet observed and recorded in your pets 
clinical history.
B had received veterinary treatment before the inception of his policy with GLI. On 3 October 
2019 Mr P took B to the vets following an incident where he had jumped from a wall. This 
caused him to limp on his right front leg. He was told it was a possible soft tissue injury 
related to the elbow. On 21 May 2020, he was taken back to the vet for a problem with the 
same leg. He was prescribed medication.
On 28 June 2021 B went back to the vets for another issue, this time with his left front leg. 
His clinical records note that this leg was swollen, and he had a very painful elbow area. He 
was treated with further medication for soft tissue damage. He went for a follow-up 
appointment on 7 July 2021 when he was prescribed more pain relief medication as a 
precaution. He was told that if that didnt work, he should have an MRI scan. The vet also 
advised that B be x-rayed, but Mr P declined this. Mr P says Bs swelling and lameness 
improved with the medication hed been given and he was walking as normal. He says that 
at no point was it mentioned that B might have an immune disease or a problem with his 
joints.
However on 24 August 2021, shortly after the inception of his policy with GLI, B was unable 
to walk at all. The issue appeared to be with his back legs. Mr P took him to a different 
veterinary practice who told him it could possibly be a neurological problem or something to 
do with his back. He was referred to another clinic who conducted further tests. B was 
diagnosed as having immune-mediated polyarthritis (IMPA), a disorder of the immune 
system leading to inflammation in multiple joints. Mr P claimed for the cost of Bs treatment.
After reviewing Bs clinical records, GLI contacted Bs treating vets to ask for their 
confirmation as to whether the condition Mr P was claiming for was linked to the condition 
that B was seen for on 28 June 2021. The vets responded that B was seen on 27 October 
2021 for reassessment of the joint pathology for which he had undergone investigation in 
June.
GLI declined Mr Ps claim on the ground that B had displayed symptoms of polyarthritis in 
June 2021 for which he received treatment and advice. As the treatment claimed for was for 
a pre-existing condition occurring within 24 months of the inception of his policy with GLI, the 
exclusion within the policy for pre-existing conditions therefore applied. 
Mr P says no previous mention had been made of B suffering from any infection or 
polyarthritis and that no advice or treatment had previously been given for this condition and 
this was confirmed by Bs clinical records.
Mr P also refers to a statement provided by Bs referral vet which includes:
We have no way of proving if these incidents are related or not as no diagnostics
were made by the referring vet.
The referring vets clinical history has never offered this condition [immune mediated 
polyarthritis] as a possibility and no medication has been provided for this current 
condition in the past.
GLI responded by reference to the fact that Mr Ps claim was for Bs treatment for septic 
arthritis of the left fore elbow, diagnosed on 1 September 2021, and secondary immune 
mediated polyarthritis (IMPA) affecting his other joints. It noted from Bs clinical records (27 
August 2021) that Mr P was informed on multiple occasions that the cause of the left 
thoracic limb lameness could be related to the current problem with the pelvic limb. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with GLIs rejection of his claim and brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that it was apparent that something was wrong with B 
prior to the policy starting. He couldnt say the condition for which B received treatment in 
June 2021, before the policy start date, wasnt linked to the condition for which he was 
treated in September 2021. There was a vets opinion that believed that there was a 
connection. He therefore didnt think that GLI had acted unfairly in finding that Bs condition 
was pre-existing and consequently rejecting Mr Ps claim.
Mr P doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that it be re-considered by an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im only upholding Mr Ps complaint in part and Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Ps policy with GLI are similar to most pet insurance policies and are clear 
as to the fact that cover for pre-existing conditions is excluded. The only matter at issue here 
is whether the condition for which B received treatment between August and October 2021 
2021 was a pre-existing condition - anything B had had treatment, medication or advice for 
in the 24 months preceding the inception of the policy on 30 July 2021, including anything a 
vet observed and recorded in Bs clinical history.
Im persuaded by what has been recorded in Bs veterinary records when he was treated in 
both June 2021, before the inception of the policy, and in September 2021, after policy 
inception, that the conditions for which he was treated are connected. Ill explain why.
Extracts from Bs veterinary notes read as follows:
27/08/21 -  Discussed I am not lying to the insurance company- I am obliged to inform 
the owner that the costs may not be covered if the causes of the lameness could be 
related. Mr P was informed on multiple occasions that the cause of the left thoracic 
limb lameness could be related to the current problem with the pelvic limb.Explained that the reported problem with the LFL may be interpreted as part of a 
polyarthropathy we diagnose if we perform investigations today. This may mean the 
polyarthropathy is considered a pre-existing condition. We will make sure our notes 
and reports for the insurers are fully accurate and not misleading so as to prejudice the 
claim. However, they will have previous medical records and are free to interpret these 
as they wish as we will not be able to challenge this.
The above entry suggest that Bs vet was alive to the potential connection between the 
conditions in Bs front legs for which he received treatment in June 2021, and his pelvis/back 
legs for which he received treatment between August and October 2021, and the implication 
for any insurance claim made by Mr P.
27/08/2021 -  suspect impa based on multiple fluid sample abnormalities but left elbow 
particulary abnormal
29/08/21 -  Based on the orthopaedic examination findings, I suspected 
immunemediated polyarthritis but septic arthritis was also possible. I recommended 
joint fluid sampling and diagnostic imaging initially. External laboratory analysis of the 
samples from the right stifle, both elbows and the right tarsus was consistent with 
neutrophilic arthritis.
1/09/21 - Examination culture from left elbow confirms septic arthritis. poss secondary 
sepsis with IMPA or primary septic arthritis with secondary IMPA - less likely
The lab result today has confirmed left elbow septic arthritis, which is suspected to be 
secondary to immune-mediated polyarthritis in that joint. IMPA was also noted in other 
joints.
I consider that the above references suggest a clear connection between the two conditions, 
although there may have been some initial uncertainty as to whether the septic arthritis 
diagnosed in Bs front leg joints was primary or secondary to the diagnosed IMPA. Bs 
referral vet has also specifically stated that B was seen on 27 October for reassessment of 
the joint pathology for which he had undergone investigations in June.  The 
treatment/advice given in October is therefore clearly linked to the treatment B received in 
June. 
Mr P places reliance on the statement provided by Bs vet which in full reads:
I can confirm the referral was requested 25.8.21 on the grounds B was not able to 
stand on back legs which has now been diagnosed as immune mediated polyarthritis.
The insurance rejection date of 28.6.21 was relevant to an incident B had incurred with 
swelling and lameness in his front leg after a walk which subsequently improved on 
pain killers.
We have no way of proving if these incidents are related or not as no diagnostics were 
made by the referring vet.
The referring vets clinical history has never offered this condition as a possibility and 
no medication has been provided for this current condition in the past.
What this letter says appears to be factually correct, but I dont consider that it assists Mr Ps 
case. Ive seen the records from the vets who treated B in June 2021. Its clear from these 
that limited investigation was undertaken. The vets records show the following entries:
28/06/21 - Advise strongly for xray owner declined, owner said is very sure is not a 
fracture Owner wants just pain relief atm 
6/07/21 - Offered again xray owner declined, owner prefer CT scan because wanna 
check the muscles as well.If B had been x-rayed in June/July 2021, this mightve revealed that Bs problems were joint 
related and mightve led to identification of the septic arthritis/IMPA that was only diagnosed 
in September, and advice and different medication provided. So the fact that it wasnt 
mentioned by the vets treating B in June is in all likelihood because of the limited 
investigation that they were able to undertake.
The absence of a diagnosis in June therefore cannot in my view be used as evidence that B 
didnt have a condition then that was connected to the diagnosis of septic arthritis/IMPA in 
Bs left elbow made in September 2021. 
My conclusion is that on the basis of the medical information, GLI is not acting unreasonably 
in coming to the view that Bs treatment was for a condition that pre-existed the inception of 
the policy and is therefore excluded. No information or veterinary opinion has been provided 
that would evidence that there was no such connection. So regrettably Im unable to uphold 
Mr Ps complaint in relation to his claim for this treatment.
However Mr P has pointed out that his claim also covered treatment for other conditions that 
he says werent linked to the septic arthritis/IMPA, namely a joint infection and a snapped 
tendon. I asked that GLI comment on this and it referred the matter to its veterinary 
specialists. 
In relation to treatment for the joint infection, their view remains that Bs clinical history 
shows that the joint infection in Bs left elbow was secondary to his IMPA, and the left elbow 
received treatment, medication and advice before policy inception, even though a formal 
diagnosis wasnt made at the time. It therefore maintains its position that treatment for this 
falls within the exclusion for pre-existing conditions. In line with my previous conclusion, I 
dont consider GLI is acting unreasonably in coming to this view. 
However, after a further analysis of Bs medical records, GLI has accepted that Bs snapped 
tendon (a cranial cruciate ligament rupture) was a new condition occurring after the inception 
of the policy. It has therefore identified from the invoice for Bs treatment those costs that 
related to treatment of this which it says amount to £1,730.87. GLI has therefore said that 
after deduction of the policy excess, it will pay Mr P £1,631.97.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ps complaint by requiring Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to settle Mr Ps claim to the extent that it relates to  the treatment of Bs 
snapped tendon subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy. 
I also require it to pay simple interest of 8% on the sum so paid from the date of Mr Ps claim 
to the date of payment to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman