DRN-3321795
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc, has rejected the claim she made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around January 2015, Mrs M was contacted by a representative of a company, which 
Ill call M, to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. After being visited by a representative of M, Mrs M decided to purchase the system. 
She paid for this partly using her Tesco credit card. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Tesco. The CMC said that M had made a number of representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mrs M to 
enter into the contract with M. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
The system cost of £9,905.00 would be self-funded through feed-in tariff (FIT) 
payments (payments made to Mrs M under a government scheme for each unit of 
electricity generated and each unit exported to the grid) within five years.
Tesco issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs M. It didnt accept that shed been told the system would be self-
funding within five years. Tesco said she may have been told that the system would be self-
funding over its lifetime (of 20+ years), but that was not a misrepresentation given the 
income and electricity savings that have so far been realised.  
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that M had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Other complaints involving M had been upheld. 
M had been a member of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) which had 
found that M had breached its code.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs M partly paid for the system with her credit card, Tesco agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs M could claim against Tesco, the creditor, 
for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by M, the supplier, in the same way she 
could have claimed against M. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs M and 
M, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by M as an agent of Tesco.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent for the purposes of passing on the 
representation, acting within the scope of their authority) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
The CMC has also provided some background information about Ms sales practices  
specifically in relation to a non-compliance hearing of The Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code (RECC) in September 2014, which I have also considered when reaching my decision. 
RECC is a scheme which renewable energy installers can voluntarily become members of. 
In doing so, they agree to comply with the RECC.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Tesco. These 
include the sales contract and an estimated returns sheet. Ive considered these in detail and 
thought about whether they support the alleged representations made by M.
The sales contract sets out key information about the system, the expected annual 
generation, and technical information. The estimated returns sheet shows information about 
the benefits of the system through FIT payments and energy savings (through using 
electricity generated by the system rather than paying to import it from the electricity grid). 
Im satisfied that these documents formed a central part of the sales process and are 
therefore relevant when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact 
alongside Mrs Ms recollection of the sale.
Evidence from RECC non-compliance hearing
I have considered the background information the CMC provided about Ms sales practices 
which is from a RECC non-compliance hearing in September 2014. The CMC is of the 
opinion that this shows M was systematically mis-selling solar panels and that, because of 
this, Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. However, I disagree. 
The RECC hearing found that some allegations had not been proven and there were no 
breaches of sections 5.1, 5.3, 5.5 and 5.6 of the RECC. However, it did find the following 
breaches of the RECC had occurred:Section of RECC breached Reasons for finding there was a breach
Section 5.2 
Members must not follow up sales visits by 
further visits or telephone calls offering 
further discounted prices or other 
information intended to pressurise 
consumers into signing a contract.
Employees must not give false or 
misleading information about their company 
or the product, services or facilities being 
offered.The number of incidents was very small 
compared with Ms overall number of sales, 
but the code is absolute about the use of 
inappropriate discounting. 
The level of feedback complaints at the end 
of 2013 and the beginning of 2014 indicate 
that there was a practice in parts of the 
company of offering discounts in order to 
secure sales.
In relation to loan agreements and the costs 
being covered by the FIT, M in effect 
accepted that consumers may have been 
misled. 
Section 5.4
Before the contract is signed, members 
must give consumers a written estimate 
based on the information the consumer has 
given them.
Members will also provide consumers with 
the method used for calculating the price.
 
Members must provide consumers with 
accurate information regarding incentives 
available for installing small-scale 
generation at the consumers property 
(such as the FIT scheme). M suggested that prior to the development 
of a new welcome pack for customers, 
consumers might not have received all the 
required information, because it was on 
separate sheets of paper, and some 
couldve been missed out. 
Section 4
Members will not act in any way that might 
bring the code into disrepute.M gave a great deal of evidence and 
information in relation to the actions it had 
taken in 2014 to remedy these issues. But 
any form of pressure selling to consumers 
and restricting information does have a 
negative impact on the reputation of the 
code. 
As a result of its findings, the panel decided that an audit of Ms compliance would be 
undertaken. A further hearing was scheduled but this never took place because M resigned 
its membership of RECC. In 2016, M went into liquidation.
So, in my opinion, this evidence shows that M had some issues with its sales practices and 
wasnt consistently complying with the RECC prior to September 2014. I have been mindful 
of this when making my decision. But I dont think the evidence shows a systemic issue such 
that this complaint should be upheld without consideration of the particular circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint. And I think the case-specific evidence from Mrs Ms actual sale is more 
important, relevant, and persuasive in helping me make my decision in this case.
Cost of the system
The sales contract sets out the cost of the system as £9,905.00. Mrs M paid £1,486.00 using 
her credit card and the remainder from funds she had readily available. 
Mrs M may have paid interest on the amount borrowed depending on when she paid this 
credit card balance off. But, as she used a credit card Ms representative wouldnt have been 
aware of the implications of that. Whereas Mrs M wouldve known, for example, how much 
she owed on her card, what the interest rate was and how and when she was planning to 
pay it off. 
So, I think it is fair to expect M to have clearly set out the cost of the system, which it 
appears to have done. There was no need for M to provide a clear comparison between that 
cost and the additional costs that Mrs M might incur through choosing to pay part of that with 
her credit card. 
I accept the expectation here may have been different if, for example, a point-of-sale loan 
had been used to fund the purchase rather than a credit card. And that other complaints 
involving point-of-sale loans have been upheld where M was the supplier. 
Performance of the system
Ive looked at the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between M and Mrs M. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is expected 
to produce 3,724 kWh per year.
I have looked at Mrs Ms FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,722 kWh per year. This is almost exactly the amount estimated by M at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the overall estimated returns shown. Having done so, these do not 
appear to be unreasonable given what I know about the system  in terms of how much 
electricity it was expected to generate. The FIT and electricity unit rates and assumptions 
about inflation appear to be reasonable. 
Any apparent underperformance in terms of FIT payments and savings is likely to be due to 
inflation not being as high as predicted (rather than the underlying assumptions being 
misleading or unreasonable). This would mean that the FIT generation and export unit rates 
will not have increased as much as expected. And if electricity prices have not risen as much 
as expected this would reduce the saving per unit of electricity. But I dont think that 
constitutes a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Electricity savings would also be very dependent on how Mrs M uses electricity in her home. 
M used a self-consumption rate of 50% to work out the savings. That was industry standard 
at the time and was set out on the estimated returns sheet. I dont think this estimate was 
unreasonable. If Mrs M has used less than 50% of the electricity generated then she will 
have saved less. But I dont think that constitutes a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
FIT paymentsMrs M has alleged that she was told the total cost of the system would be self-funded by 
the FIT payments within five years. Ive considered the documents that were provided by M 
and considered whether this supports what Mrs M has said.
The estimated returns sheet sets out the estimated income Mrs M could expect to receive by 
way of FIT payments and the savings she could make by using some of the electricity 
generated. This is split out into the benefits in the first year and the total benefits over 20 
years for FIT payments (as these are only paid for 20 years) and over 25 years for the 
savings (the expected lifetime of the system). The estimated benefits were shown as follows:
This shows that the year one benefit (which includes FIT payments and energy savings)  
would be £829.15, with the total FIT payments over 20 years being £14,335.13.
Mrs M knew from the sales contract that she would pay £9,905.00 for the system up front. 
And it seems she understood the system would generate income over time. I think that the 
estimated returns sheet makes it clear that over 20 years she could receive £14,335.13 in 
FIT payments. Given the first year FIT payments were shown to be about £600, I dont think 
this document supports her allegation that she was told the FIT payments would cover the 
cost of the system after five years. 
I think it is more likely that Mrs M was told the FIT payments in year one would be about 
£600. And that they would be about £14,000 over 20 years. Because of this, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs M was told the system would be self-funding through FIT payments after 
five years. 
Self-funding
The sales document examples that the CMC has provided do suggest that Mrs M may have 
been told the system would be in some way self-funding. Although that appears to be in 
reference to where it is paid for using a loan. But given that Mrs M chose to pay for the 
system up front rather than with a loan, it could only be self-funding over a period of time. 
Not on a month-to-month basis which might have been possible if purchased using a loan. I 
think Mrs M would have understood this.
There is no documentation that confirms what that self-funding timeframe would be. Tesco 
argues it is likely that the system may have been described as self-funding over its full 
lifetime (25 years). Looking at the estimated returns sheet, the information shown would 
support such a claim  the cost of the system being £9,905.00, and the total benefit being 
over £30,000 (with over £14,000 of that coming from FIT payments). 
So, if Mrs M was told that the system would be self-funding over its lifetime it appears that 
was not a misrepresentation. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by M that induced Mrs M to enter 
into the contract for the system. So, Tescos response to Mrs Ms claim was fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman