DRN-4328650
The complaint
Mr U complains that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly blocked payments from his account, when he 
had enough in his account to cover it. Hed like further compensation and for the business to 
improve their communications.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so Ill only briefly mention them here. 
On 22 August 2022 Mr U found that he couldnt make transactions on his account. He 
contacted Lloyds, and was told hed receive a call back, and that if he went to branch with ID 
hed be able to use his account again. But this turned out not to be true. The block was 
removed on 3 September. Mr U complained, and Lloyds said that the block was a 
processing delay, and that they cant provide prior notice of this. But they apologised for 
giving him the wrong information and paid him £30 in compensation and £23 in call costs.
Mr U referred the complaint to our service, saying this didnt reflect the concern and worry it 
had caused him. Our investigator looked into things and thought Lloyds should do more. 
They said they couldnt conclude it was fair for Lloyds to block Mr Us account, and they 
accepted this would have cause Mr U more alarm than necessary. They asked Lloyds to pay 
8% simple interest per annum on the balance held between 22 August and 3 September. 
They also suggested he receive an additional £100 compensation.
Lloyds accepted this as an outcome  but Mr U declined it saying he didnt believe it was 
sufficient compensation. He asked for a regulatory investigation, and said banks should not 
act as if their clients deposits were their own and give information as to what they do with 
other peoples money. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr U has made points about wanting a regulatory investigation and made wider points 
about what banks should be doing when with their consumers money. I should explain that 
our service isnt an industry regulator, although we do work with them in sharing insight. But 
the role of our service is to resolve individual complaints between financial businesses and 
their customers, based on the individual circumstances of each complaint. My role is to 
decide on whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve his specific complaint, rather than 
make any wider findings about how Lloyds communicate blocks and suspensions in general.
With that in mind, its right to say that a bank can block an account in the course of meeting 
their legal and regulatory obligations. It isnt always going to possible, or even wanted, to 
communicate this in advance. There also isnt currently any specific obligation on the bank to 
explain the block. There is provision for this in the terms of Mr Us account. 
But Lloyds still have an obligation to treat Mr U fairly and reasonably. The key question for 
me is whether Lloyds were reasonable in blocking his account in the way they did. Having 
reviewed the evidence available, Im not satisfied Lloyds have demonstrated that it was 
reasonable to block Mr Us account, or that it was a requirement of their legal and regulatory 
obligations. In the absence of a reasonable explanation for the block, I can only conclude 
that it was unfair to do so.
So, Ive gone on to consider the impact on Mr U. He used this account quite regularly  
although it also doesnt appear to have been used for receiving wages or making regular 
financial commitments such as utilities or housing costs. So, there dont seem to be any 
regular payments that would have been missed. This also suggests Mr U had access to 
banking facilities elsewhere. So, Im minded there wouldnt have been an extensive impact 
from the block itself. But I can appreciate it would be frustrating to Mr U to not have access 
to his funds for two weeks. Lloyds have already accepted they misadvised Mr U about how 
to get the block removed, and that hed be called back about it. This will have compounded 
the frustration he felt. 
Overall, Im satisfied that its right Mr U receive compensation for this, more than the £30 
Lloyds have already paid. I see an additional £100 as a reasonable amount of 
compensation. Im satisfied that its appropriate to ask Lloyds to pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on the balance held for the period of the block, to reflect his loss of use of these 
funds for this time. Lastly, Lloyds have paid Mr U £23 for his call costs, which Im satisfied is 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr U 8% simple interest per annum on the balance of the blocked funds 
between 22 August 2022 and 3 September 2022.
Pay him £100 compensation in addition to the £30 already paid.
If Lloyds consider that they should deduct tax on the interest award then they should provide 
Mr U with a certificate showing how much was deducted so he can reclaim this from HMRC, 
if he is eligible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman