DRN-3788226
The complaint
Mrs Ds representative, her husband (Mr D), complains on her behalf about the transfer of 
her stocks from a third-party provider, referred to as the transferor, to her ISA at Financial 
Administration Services Limited, referred to as Fidelity or the business. 
Shes unhappy, in the main, about the following:
The transfer delays. She was promised it would take between four to six weeks, but it 
took nearly eight weeks. 
The lack of communication. She (and Mr D) had to chase Fidelity for responses. 
Despite it promising to call back, it failed to do so. 
Incorrect information provided, about transferring shares from a general investment 
account (GIA) to an ISA. 
Dividend instructions werent followed, in line with their original instructions with the 
transferor. 
The lack of communication, regarding the options available upon successful transfer. 
Incorrect original book cost. 
The adverse impact upon their finances, and chances of financial investment 
opportunities. 
The distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
What happened
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated January 2021, Fidelity upheld the complaint. In 
short, it said:
On 10 September 2020 and 21 September 2020, Mr D enquired about how Mrs D 
could transfer her investments over to it from a third-party provider, and whether it 
was possible (once the shares had been transferred) to move them into her ISA. It 
accepts it incorrectly told Mr D that she could. It didnt make clear that shed have to 
sell the shares first, and then re-purchase within the ISA.  
The BP shareholding was only received by it after the ex-dividend date of 5 
November 2020, so the dividend was paid to the transferor. 
The transferor shouldve sent it any dividends or residual cash left over. It has since 
asked the transferor to do so.  
Its sorry for the poor customer service received, and not calling back when it 
promised it would.  
Its not responsible for the transfer delays. It has been (proactively) chasing the 
transferor for the relevant information. 
By way of redress it offered £325 compensation  comprised of the following:
£150 compensation for the misinformation provided. 
£150 compensation for not calling back when it said it would. 
£25 compensation for delays investigating the complaint. 
Mr D, on behalf of Mrs D, disagreed with the businesss response and referred the complaint 
to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Having listened to the relevant calls, its clear that Mr D was (erroneously) told that 
Mrs D could transfer into an ISA straightaway, if they just opened an investment 
account with Fidelity. 
In the circumstances, Fidelity should pay Mrs D £250 compensation  which is £100 
more than what Fidelity offered and subsequently paid  for the misinformation, 
including loss of expectation and distress caused by it. 
Although Mr D says that if Mrs D had known this wasnt the case, she wouldve 
remained with the transferor and sold the shares first, before transferring the cash to 
Fidelity, shes not persuaded that this wouldve been the case.   
oDespite what Mr D says, its clear from the call(s) Mrs D wanted to transfer to 
an ISA, and its the only reason she opened an investment account.   
oISAs dont accept in-specie transfers from non-ISAs. So, Mrs D wouldve 
always had to have sold the shares in order to transfer cash to an ISA. 
oDespite what Mr D says about avoiding paying additional dealing fees, shes 
not persuaded that they wouldve done anything different. The majority of the 
shares wouldve been more expensive to repurchase if sold with the 
transferor in September 2020 and Mrs D had waited for the cash to arrive. 
oIn light of the above, she cant safely say that Mrs D wouldve sold her 
investments with the transferor  and risked being out of the market during a 
volatile time. 
 A brief timeline of events shows the following:
oOn 25 September 2020, Fidelity received the transfer application from Mrs D. 
It submitted the application to the transferor the same day. 
oOn 15 October 2020, Fidelity chased the transferor, only to be told that it 
hadnt received the request.
oThe next day, on 16 October 2020, Fidelity re-sent the transfer request. 
oA few days later, on 20 October 2020, Fidelity chased the transferor and re-
sent a copy of the request via email. 
oOn 29 October 2020, Fidelity chased the transferor again, and was told that 
the value had been sent on 27 October 2020. 
oOn 6 November 2020, Fidelity contacted the transferor again and was told 
that the value would be re-sent. Fidelity eventually received the value on 13 
November 2020. 
o26 November 2020, following Fidelitys acceptance, the transfer was 
received.   
Based on the timeline she cant say that Fidelity caused the delays, so cant uphold 
that part of the complaint. 
Although Mrs D (and Mr D) told Fidelity that the transferor had done what was 
required of it, they are unhappy that Fidelity didnt make clear that the errors were 
with the transferor. Had they known they say they wouldve chased the transferor 
themselves.
Fidelity made clear that it was chasing the matter, and the call recordings between 
Mr D and Fidelity confirmed that it wasnt sure of the progress and was trying to find 
out what was happening. 
Despite Fidelity promising to call back, it failed to do so. In due course, it offered and 
subsequently paid Mrs D £150 compensation for the error. 
Despite what Mr D says, Fidelity isnt responsible for the £10,000 loss claimed. On 
balance, shes unable to safely say that this loss was caused by anything done by 
the business. Without the benefit of hindsight, shes unable to say that Mrs D 
wouldve done anything different. 
After the transfer, Mrs D noticed the book costs were incorrect. On 26 March 2021, Fidelity gave instructions on how she could update the book costs  by going to 
Transact & Reports, Capital Gains Report and Update costs. Despite following 
the instructions, she (and Mr D) couldnt make it work. In response to further 
enquiries by the investigator, Fidelity re-confirmed the following instructions On the 
Fidelity platform, under Update costs tab under Capital Gains Tax reporting under 
Transactions & Reports. When Mrs D tried again it worked, but its not clear why it 
didnt initially. As the instructions to put things right are the same, shes unable to 
uphold this complaint. 
After the transfer, Mrs D also noticed that her BP dividend was missing, and her 
Vodaphone dividend wasnt re-invested automatically, as per her (previous) 
agreement with the transferor. 
oThe transfer was only completed on 26 November 2020, after the ex-dividend 
date of 5 November 2020 was missed, so the dividend was paid to the 
transferor. 
oThe investigator cant blame Fidelity for this because it wasnt responsible for 
the delays  nevertheless, Mrs D has now transferred the remaining money 
(from the transferor) to Fidelity via her current account.   
oMrs D was however given inconsistent information regarding the re-
investment of dividends. She was incorrectly told that all her investments 
would automatically be re-invested if she changed her account setting. 
oOn the face of the evidence its likely that some of her investments were set 
to re-invest at asset level, whilst others werent. It also looks like changing the 
account setting doesnt impact an investment, if at asset level its not set to 
re-invest. 
Having considered the impact of this on Mrs D, and the number of times she was 
given incorrect information  Fidelity should pay her another £125 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused, on top of the £25 offered and subsequently paid by the 
business  making a total of £150.   
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view. He doesnt think the compensation 
recommended by the investigator is fair. He thinks the business should pay Mrs D a total of 
£10,000 compensation for the missed opportunity and the run around for the book cost and 
dividend issues. If Fidelity disagrees, hed like an ombudsmans decision.
 
Fidelity said that although it didnt agree with part of the investigators conclusion, on balance 
it accepts her decision. As long as Mrs D agrees, it would arrange to pay the additional £225 
as directed. It wasnt prepared to pay any more, despite Mr Ds submissions. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says, I think the redress 
recommended by the investigator is broadly fair and reasonable. Therefore, Fidelity should 
pay Mrs D the sum of £550 compensation altogether, less any money already paid. 
In other words, in the circumstances and on balance, I think the business should pay an 
additional £225 as recommended by the investigator, on top of the £325 offer Fidelity made and subsequently paid, making up the sum of £550. I note that Fidelity has agreed to this, 
but Mr D still disagrees.
Before I explain why I think the amount of redress is fair and reasonable, I think its important 
for me to note Mrs Ds (and Mr Ds) strength of feeling about this matter. Mr D has provided 
detailed submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. 
However, I hope that Mrs D wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised either. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr D, and Fidelity, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision, based on the facts of the case. Despite what Mr 
D says, its not my role to punish the business, that the role of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
I note theres no dispute that Fidelity misinformed Mrs D about the transfer of her shares to 
an ISA. The business quite rightly accepts that it didnt make clear that the shares in 
question would have to be sold first, and then re-purchased, through the ISA. 
 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the investigators recommendation to pay a 
total of £250 compensation for this  which is an additional £100, on top of the £150 paid by 
the business  is broadly fair and reasonable. I do so for the same reason as set out by the 
investigator in the background above. 
Whilst I appreciate that an in-specie transfer from a GIA to an ISA was unlikely to be 
possible (with any platform), Mrs D didnt know this, and she was led to believe that it was 
with Fidelity. So, I agree with the higher compensation for loss of expectation and distress 
and inconvenience caused by this. 
But despite what Mr D says, on balance I think its unlikely that Mrs D wouldve remained 
with the transferor and sold the investments first, before transferring the cash to Fidelity, 
even if shed been given the correct information. 
 
I note that Mrs D couldve sold her stock with the transferor at any point but didnt  it wasnt 
even an option she (or Mr D) contemplated when Mr D spoke to the business first, 
notwithstanding the subsequent misinformation. In the circumstances, and on balance, like 
the investigator Im satisfied that Mrs D wanted to transfer to Fidelity, and thats why she 
opened an investment account. 
Despite what Mr D says about the dealing fees, its likely that Mrs D would have to pay this 
in any event. I note that ISAs dont accept in-specie transfers from non-ISAs, so selling the 
shares and repurchasing with the ISA  and thus paying dealing fees  was inevitable. 
In any case, Im also mindful of the investigators view that majority of the shares wouldve 
been more expensive to repurchase (had they been sold with the transferor in September 
2020) and Mrs D waited for the cash to arrive. On balance, I think its more likely than not 
Mrs D wouldve chosen to remain invested during this period. On the face of the evidence, 
and on balance, despite what Mr D says, and notwithstanding the loss of expectation, I think 
its unlikely that Mrs D wouldve done anything different even if shed been given the correct 
information at the outset. 
The brief chronology of events speaks for itself. Im satisfied that Fidelity provided the 
request and responded to queries in a timely manner. Furthermore, it took reasonable steps 
to chase the transferor and move things along, so on balance Im unable to say that its responsible for the delays. Im also mindful that the stocks were invested during this whole 
time, so wouldnt have suffered a financial loss from being out of the market.
However, Fidelity accepts that it failed to call back at a critical time, that evidently caused 
Mrs D distress and inconvenience  for which I think £150 compensation paid by the 
business is broadly fair and reasonable. Whilst the covid19 pandemic may explain its actions 
to some extent, it doesnt necessarily justify it in this instance.   
Despite what Mr D says, Im unable safely say that Fidelity is responsible for the loss 
claimed by Mrs D. I agree with the investigator that in this instance, and on balance, its not 
clear  without the benefit of hindsight  what Mrs D wouldve done. Therefore, I cant safely 
say that the business is responsible for (potential) loss of opportunity.  
Despite what Mr D say about the book cost, I dont think this part of the complaint should be 
upheld either. Im satisfied that there was (a potential) issue and Fidelity provided 
instructions on how to put things right. Its not clear what happened or why it didnt work 
initially, but the subsequent instructions (from Fidelity to the investigator) were more or less 
the same and it seemed to work in due course. So, I cant say Fidelity has done anything 
wrong in this instance such that the complaint should be upheld. Based on what Fidelity 
says, I note it can take some time for the system to reflect the update and thats why it may 
not have been reflected straightaway.  
I note the BP shareholding was only received by Fidelity after the ex-dividend date of 5 
November 2020 and thats why the dividend was paid to the transferor. Its common industry 
practice that if a customer buys on the ex-dividend date  in other words on the day in which 
the stock trades without the benefit of the next scheduled dividend payment  or later, they 
wont get the dividend. I agree with Fidelity thats what has happened here, because the 
transfer completed on 26 November 2020. Fidelity isnt responsible for the delay and this 
isnt something I can blame it for. Im aware that the remaining cash has subsequently been 
transferred by Mrs D to Fidelity. 
On balance, Im persuaded that Mrs D was probably given inconsistent information regarding 
the re-investment of dividends. Its likely she was (incorrectly) told or led to believe that all 
her investments would be automatically re-invested if she changed her account setting. It 
seems this wasnt necessarily case and depended on what was agreed/set at asset level. 
I know the business has recently explained: 
The Barclays dividend did not reinvest because the asset-level income setting was set to 
pay cash The account-level setting is to reinvest but individual holdings can have their 
own setting.    
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the investigators recommendation to pay £150 
compensation  which is another £125 compensation on top of the £25 offered and 
subsequently paid by the business  is probably fair and reasonable. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr D has also suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with this 
case on behalf of Mrs D, I should make clear that under the rules governing our service, Mr 
D (as representative) isnt entitled to any compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im 
aware he might think that he is eligible to receive compensation but thats not something I 
can ask the business to do.
I can only tell a business to pay compensation, as I have done, for trouble and upset 
experienced by its customer, not by a third party. So, Mrs D would be entitled to compensation but not Mr D in this instance. If Fidelity decide to pay Mr D any money  for 
his efforts to help his wife  thats a matter for the business.  
I appreciate that Mrs D will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im unable to give her what she wants. 
Putting things right
To put things right Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mrs D the sum of 
£550 compensation, less any money already paid. 
If Financial Administration Services Limited has already paid Mrs D £325, and I believe it 
has, it only needs to pay her the balance of £225, as recommended by the investigator.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mrs D redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman