DRN-4477968
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs W complain about the handling and decline of their buildings insurance claim 
by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and the service provided.
RSA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy, some of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As RSA accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to RSA should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
Although this was a joint policy, in my decision Ill mainly refer to Mr H as hes been dealing 
with this complaint.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr H, Mrs W and RSA. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr H and Mrs W had a home insurance policy with RSA. In 2022, they made a claim against 
their policy following the discovery of an escape of water. RSA considered the claim but 
ultimately declined it. They said that the damage was caused not by a recent event/escape 
of water, but by a long standing issue.
Mr H raised a complaint about the claim decline and the service provided whilst RSA 
investigated the claim. RSA didnt uphold the complaint and as Mr H remained unhappy, he 
referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator recommended that the 
complaint be upheld, RSA settle the claim (plus 8% simple interest) and pay Mr H £250 for 
any distress or inconvenience caused by how theyd handled and investigated the claim.
RSA responded to say they didnt accept the recommendation and the complaint was then 
referred to me for a decision. I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended 
findings. As the deadline for responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision, RSA did not. Mr Hs response focused on his 
whereabouts around the time he says the second leak occurred. Whilst I thank him for 
responding, the further evidence provided (statements and a text message) doesnt 
materially affect the outcome Ive reached. I say this because its not in question that he was 
in the property around the start of May 2022. My ultimate conclusion was that, on balance, 
RSA had fairly considered the claim before declining it. 
Therefore I see no fair or reasonable reason to deviate from my earlier provisional findings 
and have included them below for reference. 
The choice by RSA to not offer renewal terms wont be addressed by my decision. It is being 
considered under a different complaint reference with our Service. For clarity, my decision  
will address the claim decline and how RSA treated Mr H and Mrs W when considering the 
claim.
Have RSA fairly considered/investigated the claim before deciding to decline it?
In summary, RSA say the damage being claimed for occurred over time and wasnt as a 
result of a one off escape of water in 2022, as reported by Mr H. They pointed to previous 
damage claimed for in 2019 and the possibility that this damage stemmed from that loss 
event as the damage being claimed for seemed to affect very similar areas.
Ive chosen to disregard the weight RSA have placed on the video interview with Mr Hs 
daughter and I find she wasnt best placed to answer the questions asked of her - when its 
clear Mr H is the primary user of the property. I will return to this point later in my decision.
Having carefully considered the rest of evidence, on balance, I find that RSA have fairly 
declined the claim. Ill explain why below.
The discovery of the damage
Mr Hs has told us he visited the property in early May 2022 (1-3 May). He left the property 
and didnt return for over 50 days. The damage being claimed for was discovered by a close 
relative over 50 days after someone had last been in the property - on 25 June 2022, and a 
toilet was removed and pipes sealed on 27 June 2022.
Ive considered credit card statements from May - July 2022. These show that the last 
relevant credit card transaction was on 1 May 2022.
The 2019 repairs
Ive then considered the various statements provided by Mr H and compared what hes told 
us was completed in relation to the scope of works RSA had cash settled on in 2019. Mr H 
cant produce invoices to show he had the necessary repair works carried out following that 
loss event. This is at the heart of RSAs claim decline. Weve asked Mr H how he had the 
works completed and hes said:
Renovations to the property were finally completed in the Autumn of 2020. 
Payments for work were made in cash and receipts were not given. A new Glow 
Warm boiler was fitted in place of the existing boiler and the existing French doors 
were also replaced. All work was completed by the end of November 2020. Should 
you require evidence of cash withdrawals from my bank accounts I can supply this. 
Substantial withdrawals were made in September and October 2020.
And:
I spent some days drying out the capet [sic] by treading towels and squeezing out. 
Once the wet carpet had been dried out the house was perfectly habitable and 
redecoration of the stained walls was carried out by family members in 2019 whilst 
on holiday in Eastbourne in a piecemeal fashion and finished off by me whilst living alone in the house for long periods of time during the lockdowns of 2020.
The cost of materials would have been minimal but I am enclosing a list of credit card 
purchases made by me from local shops in Eastbourne from 2019 to 2022. The 
work claimed for in the 2022 claim does not relate to the 2019 claim.
The scope of works from 2019, are in my opinion, much more extensive that the works 
undertaken by Mr H and his family.
Ive also kept in mind that if the bulk of the work was carried out in 2019, that left little to be 
done in 2020 when Mr H says he was residing for longer periods of time. Mr H has pointed 
to large cash withdrawals in late 2020, but this wouldnt tally up with buying supplies for 
redecorating works if theyd largely, already taken place. Ive also kept in mind that Mr Hs 
family likely wont have been experts on redecorating and, for example, if stained walls were 
simply painted over without having sufficiently dried or been treated to prevent damp coming 
through then the problems will just have been covered over temporarily.
This point is particularly relevant here as when I compare the 2019 damage to the 2022 
damage being claimed for, there are some striking similarities. In my provisional decision I 
included a picture of the 2019 and 2022 damage side by side. As final decisions are 
published and this property belongs to Mr H Ive removed it from this, my final decision. 
What stands out in the photos are the three marks to the left of the lampshade in the first 
photo. When compared to the 2022 photo, its clear that mould has begun to grow in those 
exact areas.
Ive then considered what Mr H is able to evidence and statements do indeed show 
purchases made in the area where the property is, across 2019 and 2020. Mr H has 
produced evidence that he had a new boiler and French doors fitted in October and 
November 2020 and these were the final stages in his redecorating works.
Ive no doubt at all that Mr H and his family used the property throughout the 2019- 2022 
period. Various evidence such as credit card statements put Mr H in that area and text 
messages between his daughter and neighbour support that the house was being used.
This leaves the question: based on the available evidence have RSA unfairly declined this 
claim for the reasons theyve given? Their position is:
It is clear from the nature and extent of the damage along with the well-developed 
presence of mould, that this is not the result of a recent one-off event, but has been 
ongoing for a considerable period of time.
In summary, they say the proximate cause of the damage being claimed for here was not a 
second leak in 2022 - but ultimately stems from the 2019 leak.
On the other hand, Mr H has said that the proximate cause of the damage being claimed for 
was a one off, escape of water in early May 2022 and it caused the damage being claimed 
for over the next 50 or so days.
Having carefully considered the evidence, on balance, I find that RSA have fairly considered 
the claim before declining it. I wont be asking them to reconsider the claim or settle the 
invoices Mr H has presented.
The service provided by RSAIts unfortunate that Mr Hs daughter had a negative experience during her video interview. 
As outlined earlier, I dont believe she was best placed to deal with the claim enquiries. But I 
dont find that the service provided was poor to the extent that compensation would be fair, 
reasonable or appropriate for this reason (her experience).
Ive also noted that our Investigator felt Mr H had been disadvantaged because reasonable 
adjustments hadnt been made. But its not my role, or the role of this Service to decide 
whether RSA acted unlawfully or not (breached the Equality Act 2010). That would be a 
matter for the Courts.
My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But 
when reaching that finding, I have taken a number of things into account - including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So, although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not RSA breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to 
take the Equality Act 2010 into account - if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
I agree with our Investigator that had it been Mr H interviewed (either remotely or in person), 
Im confident hed have given his version of events as presented when making the claim. So 
I dont find thats he lost out in terms of the claim outcome  even in a scenario where 
reasonable adjustments werent made for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman