DRN-3785619
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) dealt 
with his claim for damage to his motorcycle. In particular Mr B is unhappy Markerstudy failed 
to obtain an admission of liability from the third party. 
What happened
Mr B had fully comprehensive motorcycle insurance with Markerstudy. 
Mr B says in September 2021 his motorcycle was hit by a trailer which was being towed by a 
car. The driver left the scene and then denied all knowledge of the accident. Mr B says there 
were no witnesses to the incident and when he confronted the third-party driver, the driver 
refused to accept responsibility or provide his details. 
Mr B contacted Markerstudy after the incident. He says this was to get some advice on 
whether it was worth submitting a no-fault claim. Mr B was concerned the third party might 
deny the incident and if that happened he would have to pay for the repairs himself since the 
cost of doing so would be less than the policy excess. Mr B says he was told to submit a 
claim so Markerstudy could look into whether the third-party insurer was going to accept 
liability. 
Mr B says after he made the claim he had to keep chasing Markerstudy in order to get an 
update on the claim but it failed to respond to him. In November 2021 Markerstudy told him 
third-party liability had not been disputed but it was closing the claim. 
So Mr B complained to Markerstudy on a number of occasions. He was unhappy with the 
lack of updates, that he was asked to provide further images of the vehicle, and that his 
claim had been closed. 
Markerstudy accepted it should have explained to Mr B precisely what images and 
information it required at the outset of the claim. Markerstudy explained the estimate of the 
cost of repair was below the sum of the policy excess and as such it would not be in Mr Bs 
financial interest to proceed under the policy. It said since no claim could be made on the 
policy it didnt have any costs to recover, and as such it wouldnt be able to put additional 
pressures on the third-party insurer. Markerstudy accepted there were delays in it sending 
the allegations to the third party and a lack of communication with Mr B. By way of an 
apology it paid Mr B £100. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied with the response from Markerstudy. And so he referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. The investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint. She 
didnt uphold it. She said because there was no claim on Mr Bs policy Markerstudy had no 
basis to pursue liability against the third-party. And despite Markerstudys attempts to 
contact the third-party it didnt receive an admission of liability. The investigator felt the 
compensation paid by Markerstudy was fair to reflect the delays in the claim. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the investigators outcome. He said Markerstudy told him to submit 
a claim but were ineffectual in dealing with the third-party insurer. He said the delays by 
Markerstudy meant the third-party was less likely to admit liability. So the complaint has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr B. 
To be clear I am only dealing with the initial complaint made to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. I know Mr B has made a subsequent complaint to Markerstudy but this doesnt form 
part of my findings. 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr B. Ive no 
doubt Mr B has done all he can to try and prove his claim and have acted in good faith when 
reporting the incident to his insurer. And so when the claim was closed I think this would 
have been both shocking and upsetting for him. 
But its not for me to decide who was responsible for the accident. It is important to explain 
my role here is to look at whether Markerstudy acted in a fair and reasonable manner and 
within the terms of the policy in its handling of the claim. I am not able to look at actions of 
the third-party or their insurer. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Not kept up to date throughout the claims process
Mr B feels Markerstudy didnt communicate with him as he would have expected. I have 
reviewed the documents provided by both sides. I can see that Mr B sent a number of emails 
which werent responded to and he had to chase Markerstudy on more than a few 
occasions. 
Markerstudy have accepted it didnt communicate with Mr B as it should have and paid him 
£100 by way of an apology. I think this is fair in the circumstances and in line with what I 
would have recommended. 
Contacting the third-party insurer 
Mr B is unhappy Markerstudy didnt contact the third-party insurer more quickly after the 
incident was reported to it. He feels Markerstudy could and should have done more to speak 
to the third-party insurer and obtain an admission of liability for the incident. 
I can see from the information provided to me by Markerstudy that it made a number of 
attempts to contact the third-party insurer. Markerstudy were told the third-party driver hadnt 
informed his insurer about the incident. And so Markerstudy sent the insurer further details in 
respect of the claim. Unfortunately the third party made no admission as to liability.  
Markerstudy explained that since the third-party didnt accept liability for the incident it was 
unable to compel it to pay for the repairs to Mr Bs motorcycle. It also explained that since 
the cost of the repair was less than the excess on Mr Bs policy it wouldnt be economical for 
the repairs to be carried out under the policy. As a result of this it meant a claim wasnt 
registered on Mr Bs policy. I have seen Mr Bs comments that he was told to register a claim 
with the insurer which he did, and then the investigator said there was no claim. To be clear the position with the insurer is that where repairs arent carried out under the policy, and 
where Markerstudy have no party to recover any costs from the claim doesnt proceed. 
Essentially it exists as a notification as opposed to a claim. Markerstudy were only able to do 
this after it investigated the matter and attempted to get the third party to admit liability.  
Had an admission of liability been obtained then Markerstudy would have been in a position 
to waive the excess on the policy and arrange for the repairs to be carried out. Unfortunately 
since the third-party didnt respond to Markerstudy it was unable to proceed with the claim. I 
can appreciate how frustrating this would have been for Mr B. Especially given he was not at 
fault for the incident. But the driver of the other vehicle didnt accept any responsibility at the 
time of the incident. So I think its unlikely he would have admitted fault regardless of whether 
Markerstudy wrote to him sooner than it did. I cant fairly hold Markerstudy responsible for 
the actions of the third-party. 
Indeed Mr B was also concerned the third-party driver would deny knowledge of the incident. 
He says this is the reason he contacted Markerstudy in the first place  to get some advice 
as to how to proceed. He was told to make a claim so Markerstudy could look into the 
matter. And this is what it did.
Ive considered the information provided to me by Mr B. I must say that I empathise with the 
position Mr B now finds himself in. Unfortunately I dont think this is due to Markerstudy and 
its handling of the matter. 
Markerstudy took a view that in the absence of independent evidence to prove the car driven 
by the third party was involved in the collision. And the fact there is no independent witness 
evidence to prove the damage was the fault of the third-party driver it wouldnt be able to 
pursue the matter any further. I dont think Markerstudy acted unreasonably here since it 
looked at the evidence before it in order to come to that conclusion. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B but overall I think Markerstudy has acted in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. And so I wont be asking it to do any more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman