DRN-3896220
The complaint
Mr B complains that KGM Underwriting Services Limited didnt store his car securely and 
then disposed of it and his belongings after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He 
wants compensation for his lost personal belongings. 
What happened
Mr B was in an accident whilst abroad. The car was taken to a garage and Mr B made a 
claim on his policy. The car was deemed to be a total loss. Mr B made it clear that he 
wanted to remove his personal belongings from it. But, due to how the car was stored, some 
items were removed. KGM doesnt dispute this. Mr B told KGM of the theft, and it disposed 
of the car two days later. Mr B wanted KGM to reimburse him for the loss of his belongings, 
£12,817.15. But KGM said the policy limit was £300. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr B had 
made it clear to KGM that he intended to recover his personal belongings. But it hadnt 
stored his car securely so that some were stolen. It then disposed of the car before Mr B 
could remove his things. So he thought KGM should reimburse Mr B for the loss of these 
items and pay him £300 for his trouble and upset. 
KGM replied that the policy limit for personal belongings was £300 and that it had told Mr B 
to make a claim on his travel insurance for any other losses. KGM asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr B was badly hurt in the accident. I can understand that it must 
have been a very traumatic experience for him and his partner. Our approach in cases like 
this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Bs policy limit for personal belongings is £300. And I would usually say 
that it would be fair and reasonable for KGM to apply this limit. But I dont think that would be 
fair and reasonable in Mr Bs particular circumstances. Ive decided this for the following 
reasons:
I can see that Mr B was clear with KGM from the start of the claim that he wanted to 
retain his belongings. And so I think efforts should have been made by KGM and its 
agent to ensure that they were kept securely. But this didnt happen.
The agent asked KGM how Mr Bs belongings were to be returned to him. But KGM said 
it wouldnt undertake this. So Mr B made his own arrangements to return abroad to 
collect them, but they had already been destroyed before he could do this. So Mr B didnt 
have the opportunity to collect them.
Mr B learned from the garage storing his car that some items had been removed. And he 
informed KGM about this. But KGM then asked the garage to sell the salvage and 
destroy the personal belongings without giving Mr B opportunity to collect them. KGM 
said this was to avoid storage costs, but I havent seen any evidence to support this. 
Instead, Mr B said the garage wasnt charging for storage. 
Mr B provided a list of the items stored in the car and evidence of their recent purchase 
ahead of this planned trip. Im satisfied that the listed items are consistent with his 
account, and many are supported by receipts and by photographs taken during the trip. 
This is also supported by emails from KGMs agent saying that the car contained many 
items that Mr B would want to collect. So I have no reason to doubt Mr Bs account. 
KGM said the items listed by Mr B wouldnt fit in the car and some must have been 
stored in roof boxes that were lost in the accident. But I havent seen any evidence to 
show this. Mr B has explained that he hasnt claimed for the contents of the roof boxes, 
food and day to day clothing. Nor has he claimed for the roof tent as this was covered by 
his travel insurance. He said the roof rack had been removed after the accident as it was 
loose. So Im satisfied that the listed items could have been stored in the car as Mr B 
stated. 
KGM said some items would have been damaged in the accident. But it didnt undertake 
any checks at the time to either list the items or to check for any damage. Mr B has 
explained that the damage to the car was to the front drivers side. Further damage to 
the cars rear was done during the recovery. And so the contents of the rear of the car 
wouldnt have been damaged during the accident. He also explained that the police 
recovered some valuable and delicate items from the front of the car, and these were 
undamaged. So Im not persuaded that there is evidence that the personal belongings 
were damaged at the time. 
So I think KGMs claim handling caused the loss of Mr Bs personal belongings. It didnt act 
to secure them when the claim was notified. It didnt allow Mr B opportunity to remove them. 
And it hasnt justified its concerns that the belongings may have been lost or damaged. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Im satisfied KGM has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
KGM cant now restore Mr Bs belongings to him. So, to put things right, I think it should now 
reimburse Mr B for the items he has listed as lost. This matter has caused Mr B considerable 
frustration, trouble and upset. I think KGM should pay him £300 compensation for this as this 
level of award is in keeping with our published guidance for the impact the errors had. 
Putting things right
I require KGM Underwriting Services Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr B for the cost of the items he has listed as lost.
2. Pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require KGM 
Underwriting Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman