DRN-2287290
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wouldnt cover the cost 
of repairing some tanking (a waterproof barrier) under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B noticed that the carpet in their cellar was wet and the walls were damp in one 
corner. Water had entered the cellar after a long period of rainfall. So Lloyds appointed a 
personal claims consultant (PCC) who visited the property. The PCC noticed a small hole at 
the bottom of the stairs where fresh water was getting into the cellar. He said this indicated 
the tanking had failed.
 
Mr and Mrs B said theyd struggled to bail out the water. And theyd spent over £1000 trying 
to minimise the damage. Lloyds said it would only cover the reinstatement work to the cellar 
and any contents damage caused by the flooding. But Mr and Mrs B want Lloyds to cover 
the cost of repairing the tanking as well.
Lloyds said its inspector felt the tanking had failed. The insurance policy covered for damage 
caused by a number of specific, one-off events. But with regards to the tanking, which was 
installed about 15 years ago, it didnt believe that was the case. So Lloyds said it wouldnt 
pay for any works to the failed tanking.
Lloyds said it would cover, under the flood peril in the policy, the reinstatement works to the 
cellar and any contents damage caused by the water. Lloyds apologised because Mr and 
Mrs B had needed to chase the claims consultant a couple of times after he hadnt 
responded. And it offered £75 compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Lloyds response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She explained buildings insurance covered for one-off 
insured perils. It wasnt a maintenance contract. And accidental damage didnt mean any 
damage caused by wear and tear or lack of maintenance.
 
Our investigator felt Lloyds had acted correctly by asking Mr and Mrs B to allow the water to 
leak so its inspector would still be able to investigate the problem. But itd suggested using 
sand-bags to stop the water actually entering the cellar. The policy stated that if something 
happened that might cause a claim, the policyholder should take immediate action to protect 
the property and belongings from further loss or damage. And it was the homeowners 
responsibility not to let water collect and to regularly inspect the drains and downspouts. 
Overall she felt Lloyds were right to pay for water damage to the contents of the cellar but 
not the repair or replacement of the tanking. If the tanking had been fit for purpose it wouldnt 
have allowed water to enter the cellar. But she felt the consultants communications couldve 
been better. And she felt the £75 Lloyds had offered for the unnecessary stress was fair in 
the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Theyre 
disappointed with the PCC who they felt based his opinion on the specialists quote.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In any claim resulting from an escape of water there is a degree of stress and 
inconvenience. And I can see Mr and Mrs B have put a considerable amount of effort into 
trying to stay on top of the problem. But although Lloyds has said it will pay for any damage 
caused by the water entering the property, it has declined to cover the cost of repairing or 
replacing the tanking. So Ive looked at everything Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds have said to see 
if Lloyds needs to do anything more.
When deciding if Lloyds decision to decline the claim is fair I have to start by deciding if an 
insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the cause of the damage. And it 
would have to be listed as an insured peril in the policy document. But if the cause of the 
damage is noted as an exception Im sorry to say a claim cant be made.
Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance policy provided buildings and contents insurance cover. On 
page 10 the policy states if the claim is complicated, say after a flood, we can send a 
personal claims consultant to visit your home and help you make a list of the damage.
Mr and Mrs B didnt want any more water entering the property before the consultant arrived. 
They discussed hiring a pump and Lloyds suggested they keep any receipts so it could 
consider reimbursing the hire cost. The consultant visited Mr and Mrs B three days after they 
reported the problem. It was important the consultant was able to properly assess the 
damage. So I understand Lloyds suggested Mr and Mrs B put down some sandbags before 
the PCC arrived so he could still see what was happening.
Ive looked at the home insurance policy. Under proof of loss or damage it states do not 
throw away any damaged items before we have had a chance to see them or carry out any 
non-emergency repairs before we have had a chance to inspect them. So while I appreciate 
the impact this had on Mr and Mrs B, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to suggest 
a temporary solution until its consultant was able to view the damage. 
I realise this meant Mr and Mrs B had to remove the water themselves as well as check the 
downspouts and drains. And I appreciate the pressure this added to their situation. But each 
insurance contract places certain responsibilities on the parties involved. For example of 
page 41 under the claims conditions section the policy states if something happens that 
causes or may cause a claim, you should take any immediate action that is reasonably 
required to protect your property and belongings from further loss or damage.
As a further example, the policy excludes damage caused by the escape of water from 
guttering, rainwater downpipes, roof valleys, gullies and overflows. I think that shows the 
need for the policyholder to carry out reasonable maintenance on an ongoing basis and to 
take immediate action when required. 
On page 11 the policy says, make sure your home is kept in a good state of repair or you 
may find that the damage has been caused as a result of wear and tear, and not something 
your insurance covers you for.
Its important to realise insurance cover is intended to protect the policy holder from specific, 
one-off events or perils  as defined by the policy. The section relating to accidental damage 
cover states these have to be sudden, unintentional and unexpected one-off incidents  like smashing a window. It doesnt mean damage caused by wear and tear or lack of 
maintenance, or damage which occurs gradually over a period of time. 
When the consultant inspected the damage he felt the water had entered because the 
tanking had failed. The waterproof barrier shouldve protected the cellar from the ingress of 
water or dampness from the surrounding soil. But it was about 15-16 years old. And the 
consultant felt itd failed due to wear and tear  not because of any specific, insured event.
  
The policy specifically excludes wear and tear under general exclusions on page 45. It 
describes wear and tear as damage that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result of normal 
wear or ageing. And the policy repeats that the holder is not insured against the costs of 
maintenance, or the costs of any damage caused by inadequate maintenance.
 
I understand Mr and Mrs B arranged for a specialist to look at the damage. Theyve received 
written and verbal quotations of up to £20000 to deal with the tanking. And they sent a copy 
of the quotation to Lloyds. But after reviewing all of the evidence, and consulting with its 
underwriters, Lloyds declined to cover the repair or replacement cost to the tanking. If felt 
that if the tanking was still in a good condition it wouldnt have allowed the water into the 
cellar. 
I do appreciate how distressing this must have been for Mr and Mrs B. They say the cellar 
continues to flood when there are high levels of rainfall. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest the tanking failed because of a one-off, insured event. For the tanking to have been 
damaged by an insured event, such as flooding, I would expect the evidence to show that 
the water level had risen above the tanking. But that doesnt seem to be the case. The 
damage is located in one area. And Id expect the water to have entered the cellar in a 
number of locations if the water level had risen above the tanking.
So cant say Lloyds has acted unreasonably by declining the claim for the tanking. It needs 
repairing because its failed  not because its been damaged by an insured event.
Lloyds did agree to cover the damage to the contents of the cellar. Although there was no 
report of localised flooding in the area, there had been a period of heavy rainfall. And Lloyds 
felt it could consider the damage to the cellar contents as flood damage and therefore 
covered by the home insurance policy. Lloyds also agreed to consider costs for any damage 
caused to the cellar as a result of the flooding. And I think that was the right approach in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B have found this matter very upsetting. And I can understand their 
disappointment that Lloyds wont cover the repair or replacement cost of the tanking to their 
cellar. But for the reasons Ive explained above Ive not seen anything to suggest Lloyds 
hasnt acted within the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy. Its entitled to rely 
on the views of its consultant who felt the tanking had failed, rather than as a result of any 
specific event that could be considered under the policy. The consultant gave his expert 
opinion based on his experience and what hed seen. And Lloyds hasnt received any other 
evidence that suggests a different cause.
I can see Mr and Mrs B were disappointed with how the PCC dealt with their complaint. They 
had to chase for answers on a number of occasions. And there were problems with emails 
not being received or replied to. I understand how this mustve led to increasing levels of 
frustration during a difficult time. If the communication had been better Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve known what was happening  although that wouldnt have changed the outcome. 
Lloyds has accepted things couldve been handled better. And its offered £75 for any trouble 
or upset caused to Mr and Mrs B. And I think thats a reasonable offer in the circumstances.I hope Mr and Mrs B are now able to discuss with Lloyds claim team how to arrange for any 
repairs or replacements covered by their home insurance policy. But based on everything 
Ive seen I think Lloyds has handled this complaint fairly and reasonably. And I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman