DRN-2592492
The complaint
Mr G complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr G was provided with two loans by MoneyBoat. He repaid the first loan in December 2019 
and says he applied for a second loan for £500 in January 2020, but this was declined. He 
then applied again in February 2020 for a £1,500 loan and this was accepted. He says he 
provided the same documents in February 2020 as he had provided in January 2020 when 
his application was declined.
Mr G says at the time of the loan he had a low credit score and doesnt think the February 
2020 loan should have been provided. He says he cannot afford the repayments.
Loan Amount Date Instalments Repaid
1 £550 05/08/2019 5 31/12/2019
2 £1,500 06/02/2020 4 Outstanding
MoneyBoat said that before the loans were provided affordability and credit checks took 
place. It said the credit checks didnt raise any concerns and that based on the information 
received about Mr Gs income and expenses, the loan repayments were affordable.
MoneyBoat also provided further information regarding Mr Gs comments about where he 
lived and about the assistance it had offered Mr G.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in respect to the second loan. She said that the 
repayment for loan 2 represented a significant proportion of Mr Gs income. And that in such 
circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr G wouldnt have been able to meet his 
existing commitments without having to borrow again and so the repayments werent 
sustainably affordable.
MoneyBoat didnt accept our investigators view. It said that repayments representing a 
significant portion of Mr Gs income wasnt evidence that the loan was unaffordable and that 
it had carried out an affordability assessment which showed Mr G could afford the 
repayments. It said the guidelines from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) didnt state a 
threshold ratio of a customers income to repayment amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the conflicting comments that have been made about where Mr G lives. As has been 
explained, this service can consider complaints brought by eligible consumers whether they 
live in the UK. So, I have considered the merits of this case and whether it was reasonable 
that the loans were provide to Mr G.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G took out the first loan in August 2019. This was for £550 repayable over five monthly 
instalments of around £184. This was Mr Gs first loan with MoneyBoat and before it was 
provided a credit check was carried out and information gathered on Mr Gs income and 
expenses. I have looked through the information received from the credit check and I do not 
find that this raised concerns that would require further checks to take place.
At the time of the loan, Mr Gs declared monthly income was £2,179. His monthly expenses 
were recorded by Mr G as £550 and these were increased by a further £250 for 
MoneyBoats assessment. Based on the repayment amounts compared to Mr Gs income and that the credit check didnt raise concerns, I find the checks carried out were 
proportionate. As these suggested the loan was affordable I do not find I can say this loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
Mr G repaid the first loan in December 2019. This was in line with the contractual repayment. 
He says he applied for a second loan in January 2020 which wasnt approved. He was 
approved for a second loan in February 2020. This loan was for £1,500 repayable over four 
monthly instalments of around £567. 
Before the second loan was provided affordability and credit checks took place. I have seen 
the results of the credit check and do not find this raised concerns that would have required 
further investigation at this stage. Mr Gs monthly income was declared as £2,161. His 
expenses were recorded by Mr G as £650 and these were increased by £150 in 
MoneyBoats assessment. This left a disposable income amount of £1,361.
While the disposable income suggested that the loan was affordable for Mr G, the 
repayment amounts accounted for over a quarter of his monthly income. The repayments 
needed to be sustained over four months and I think this should have raised concerns that 
Mr G may have trouble in sustainably meeting the repayments over the term of the loan. 
Mr G couldnt make his repayments and I think that based on the information gathered by 
MoneyBoat is should have realised that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr G.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan 2 to Mr G, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I understand loan 2 is still outstanding. As this is the case, Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should:
remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance and treat any repayments 
made by Mr G as though they had been repayments of the principal. MoneyBoat 
should then try to work with Mr G to agree an affordable repayment plan. remove any adverse information regarding loan 2 from Mr Gs credit file. 
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 2. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the action set out above to resolve 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman