DRN-4062271
The complaint
Miss T complains PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, blocked and then closed her account 
and that its not returned the money held in it to her. Miss T says Pockits actions caused her 
substantive distress and inconvenience. 
To keep things simple, Ill mainly refer to Pockit in my decision.   
What happened
In March 2022, Pockit placed Miss Ts account under review and restricted her access to it. 
As part of it review, Miss T says Pockit asked her to provide proof of identity and source of 
funds. Miss T says she gave Pockit everything it requested from her. 
In April 2022, Pockit decided to close Miss Ts account and says it returned any remaining 
funds held in the account to source. 
Miss T says the funds in her account came from her government benefits and because of 
not having access to them she has fallen behind with her rent - and therefore fallen into 
financial difficulty. 
Pockit did not respond to Miss Ts complaint. After the time limit for it to issue a final 
response passed, the complaint was passed to one of our Investigators to look into. In 
summary, they found: 
- As Pockit hasnt provided responses to request for information, they have had to 
reaching their findings on the limited information available 
- Pockit was entitled to block Miss Ts account whilst it completed a review, but it 
would be expected to provide access to any wages or benefits in the account 
- Based on the limited information available, they couldnt conclude Pockit acted fairly 
by not releasing the funds back to Miss T. Miss T has provided enough information to 
show the funds held in her account were from benefits she was entitled to. So Pockit 
should return these funds to her
- Pockit should pay Miss T 8% simple interest on the withheld funds form 
23 March 2022 until they are returned 
- Pockit hasnt shown its decision to close the account immediately was justified. So it 
should have provided 60 days notice. Given the impact Pockits errors had, it should 
pay Miss T £300 compensation
Miss T agreed with what our Investigator said. But Pockit did not respond. Because of this, 
Miss Ts complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Pockit, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means Pockit 
may need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at the information, albeit it limited, that Pockit has given me to show why it 
reviewed and restricted Miss Ts account, Im satisfied it acted in line with its obligations. I 
must add that neither I, nor Pockit, are under any obligation, that Im aware of, to give the 
exact reasons. 
I would also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from regulated businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information Pockit has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential.
Pockit is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Pockit closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Pockit and Miss T had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving at least 60 days notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Despite several requests for information, Pockit has not provided this service with enough 
information for me to fairly and reasonably conclude it acted in line with the terms of the 
account when deciding to close it in the way it did. So based on the information I have, and 
given Miss T has shown she was receiving state benefits, Im persuaded Pockit should not 
have closed the account immediately. 
Pockit say it asked Miss T to provide it with documentation  and that she provided this in 
return. Miss T says she gave Pockit all the proof it asked for. Pockit have not shown us what 
Miss T sent to it. 
As Ive said, Miss T has shown us she was receiving state benefits. Miss T says the funds 
held in her account were from these benefits. Broadly speaking, when carrying out its review 
Pockit should have given Miss T access to any wages or benefits she can show she was 
entitled to. 
I havent been given copies of the statements for Miss Ts account. But I have been given a 
screenshot which shows £469.96 which was held in the account was returned to source on 
20 April 2022. Pockit hasnt said where these funds were returned to  nor given any 
evidence that they were sent. 
Miss T says she hasnt had the funds returned to her by anyone else they may have been 
sent to. Given Miss T should have had access to her benefits, and as Pockit hasnt shown 
why it decided to send the money to source, Im persuaded it has acted improperly here. In 
other words, it should have given the money back to Miss T following its decision to close 
the account. So, because of this, I think it should give Miss T her funds back. 
Miss T told Pockit repeatedly that not having access to these funds was causing her acute financial difficulty  in so far as she was struggling to meet her rent payment. Miss T has 
provided some paperwork which shows she was facing court action in December 2022 for 
her rent account being in arears of around £630. 
This is more than Miss T held in her Pockit account  but Im satisfied having those funds 
available would have alleviated most of these arrears accruing, especially as they likely 
derived from here state benefits. 
Miss T has also said Pockits actions adversely affected her credit score. Ive seen a copy of 
Miss Ts credit report which shows she missed payments for a mobile phone agreement. 
The contractual monthly payments here were for around £12 a month. Given the nominal 
amount, I do question how not having access to her funds impacted upon this - especially as 
those funds, according to Miss T, were earmarked for her rent. 
I havent seen anything else which caused Miss Ts credit score to be impacted. In any case, 
I think if there was any other adverse credit, as the funds were earmarked for rent, its 
difficult to conclude Pockits actions would have led to this. 
Given the impact Pockits actions have had on Miss T being able to meet her rent, and the 
distress and inconvenience this would have caused, Im satisfied £300 is fair compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right, Pockit should: 
- Return to Miss T the funds it was withholding in March 2022
- Pay 8% simple interest on these funds from 23 March 2022 until settlement* 
- Pay Miss T £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience   
* If Pockit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. PayrNet Limited should 
put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman