DRN-2047663
The complaint
Miss F complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy. She wants a refund of her premiums. 
What happened
Miss F was involved in an incident which Admiral thought was non-fault. Miss F agreed for 
her car to be repaired. But she was unhappy that she wasnt provided with a like for like 
courtesy car and so she didnt go ahead with these. Miss F thought a bigger car should be 
provided through a non-fault service. 
Miss F said she was encouraged by Admiral to obtain the other drivers details from the 
police, which was contrary to data protection laws. She thought Admiral had caused delays 
in the claim and had delayed repairing her car. 
Admiral agreed it shouldnt have encouraged Miss F to approach the police and it hadnt 
acted promptly in sending the police report to the other insurer. It offered Miss F £15 for her 
calls and £50 for her trouble and upset. But Miss F thought it should pay her further 
compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had offered Miss F a courtesy car in keeping with her policy terms and conditions. It was 
waiting for an admission of liability before it could offer Miss F its non-fault service. 
She thought it was for Admiral to obtain the police report and this had caused Miss F stress 
and worry. She thought Admiral hadnt acted promptly on occasion. But she thought this 
didnt make any difference to the claim as the other insurer still denied liability. She thought 
Miss F had agreed to delay repairs until this was done so that she neednt pay her policy 
excess and could get a bigger courtesy car. She thought Admirals compensation had been 
fair. 
Miss F replied that Admiral had recorded the claim as non-fault but hadnt contacted her 
about this or repaired her car. She thought the CCTV footage of the incident was clear. She 
said shed had no contact from Admiral for months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now over two years since Miss Fs accident, and I can understand that she wants her car 
repaired. I can see that shes been disappointed by Admirals level of service. But I cant say 
that it needs to do anything further. Ill now explain why I think this. 
Admiral has been consistent in holding Miss F not at fault for the incident. So this hasnt 
affected her No Claims Discount (NCD). Miss F says that the CCTV footage shows the other 
car driving into hers. I can see that Admiral sent the police letter confirming the registration 
of the car to the other insurer with its allegations. But Admiral says that the other insurer 
wont admit liability. 
In order for Admiral to take this further, such as by threatening legal action, it needs to have 
made an outlay. The relevant outlay here is the cost of repairing Miss Fs car and providing 
her with a courtesy car. I think Miss F has been very clear that she doesnt want her car 
repaired before an admission of liability is obtained. This is so that she can avoid paying her 
policy excess and can have a suitable courtesy car provided through the non-fault service. 
So I think its Miss Fs decision that is delaying the claim, not Admirals poor service. Admiral 
confirmed to Miss F in March 2019 that it had authorised its approved repairer to carry out 
the work required. But Miss F would still have to pay the £250 policy excess. 
I think this is standard industry practice as the policy excess is always the first part of a claim 
to be paid. Where an admission of liability is obtained from the other insurer, this can be 
recovered as an uninsured loss. But I can see that Admiral has already told Miss F that it 
would waive this when the admission is obtained. And I think Admiral explained that Miss F 
couldnt use the non-fault service without this otherwise she might be liable for costs herself. 
Miss F said she was promised a like for like courtesy car. But I havent seen any evidence of 
this. Miss F said shed paid extra premium for a hire car. But this cover is only applicable 
when the car is written off or stolen, not when its repaired. I think the policy is clear that it 
doesnt provide a like for like car, but a small car, in the case of repairs. I can understand 
that this wont suit Miss Fs circumstances, but I cant hold Admiral responsible for this. 
Admiral has already agreed that it shouldnt have encouraged Miss F to obtain information 
from the police. But, as the investigator explained, this didnt cause any delays in the claim 
as the other insurer declined to admit liability after the police letter had been sent on. 
Miss F said she hadnt heard from Admiral for months. But I would only expect Admiral to 
update her if it had any news. And, as Miss F hasnt agreed for her car to repaired, then I 
dont think Admiral had anything new to tell her. Miss F said the approved repairer had told 
her liability had been admitted. But I think this must have been in error as Admiral confirmed 
the other insurer had not admitted liability. 
Admiral has compensated Miss F with £15 for the cost of her calls and £50 for her trouble 
and upset. I think this is fair and reasonable and in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances. I dont require Admiral to do anything further. From what I can see, Miss F 
didnt cash her cheque. If she wishes to accept it, she should contact Admiral to have it re-
issued. I expect Admiral to honour this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman