DRN-1881372
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage he held with Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited. He is unhappy that Kensington was not willing to allow him to operate the 
property as a house of multiple occupancy (HMO), whereas the original lender from which 
Kensington took over the mortgage had found that to be acceptable.
What happened
Mr F took out a mortgage with lender G in 2006 to buy a property he was to rent out. The 
property was documented on the mortgage application as a two-bedroom maisonette. In 
2015 the mortgage was transferred to Kensington. 
Mr F provided a copy of the HMO licence for the mortgaged property for the period 
7 June 2011 and 7 June 2016. This allowed the property to be used as a residence for five 
individuals.
In October 2015 Mr F contacted lender G and asked if he needed permission to rent out the 
property. He was told no, as the property was recorded on its records as a buy-to-let 
property.
In June 2019 the local council for the mortgaged property wrote to Kensington. It informed 
Kensington it had received a request for a HMO licence for the property. Kensington 
confirmed to both Mr F and the council that it didnt consent to the property being let out on 
that basis. It told Mr F that by operating the property as a HMO he was in breach of the 
mortgage conditions. 
At the beginning of July 2019 Mr F contacted Kensington as he was unhappy with its 
response about the proposed HMO licence for the property. He said lender G had approved 
it previously.
Kensington responded to Mr Fs complaint. Whilst it found reference in the former lenders 
records that Mr F had asked whether he would need permission to rent the property out, 
there was no mention of doing so on a HMO basis. It considered renting the property for 
multiple occupancy would be a breach of the mortgage terms and it was not willing to allow 
it. 
Mr F didnt accept Kensingtons position. There were further discussions between Mr F and 
Kensington. Mr F also provided a copy of the HMO licence hed held for the property 
between 2011 and 2016  indicating the previous lender may have consented to the HMO 
status of the property. Kensington has told us it was considering its position further and 
intended to have the property inspected to see if the HMO alterations had affected the value 
of the property. However, before it could do so, Mr F redeemed the mortgage.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. He told us he is having to pay a higher interest 
rate on the new mortgage. In addition, he incurred broker fees and solicitors costs when he 
re-mortgaged the property. 
We asked Mr F for some more information about the previous HMO licence application. He 
confirmed the council didnt have any records from 2011 when hes originally applied for a 
HMO licence. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She concluded there was no evidence 
that lender G had treated the property as a HMO or that it had given consent for the property 
to be rented out on that basis. In relation to Mr Fs belief that the council would have written 
to lender G in 2011 when the HMO licence was applied for, she accepted it was likely this 
had happened, but that didnt mean lender G had agreed to the change of status. She was 
also satisfied that Kensington wasnt obliged to consent to the HMO licence in 2019, so she 
didnt think it had acted unfairly in doing so.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators view of the complaint. He said that in 2011 when the 
HMO licence was applied for the council would have given lender G 14 days to respond to 
object to the licence being issued. He said lender G hadnt responded. In addition, he 
highlighted the HMO licence had been in place when Kensington took over the mortgage  
Kensington took over the mortgage without doing any checks on the property or what it was 
used for. Mr F also said hed never received the mortgage conditions Kensington said he 
had breached.
Our investigator confirmed the mortgage conditions she had referred to were provided to 
Mr F in 2006 when he originally took the mortgage. She also clarified that, even if lender G 
hadnt objected to the HMO licence in 2011 when Mr F applied for it, that licence was only 
for a period of five years. When it expired, irrespective of which lender held the mortgage, 
Mr F had to ask for consent again. She pointed out that neither lender G nor Kensington was 
obliged to give that consent. She remained satisfied that Kensington hadnt treated him 
unfairly.
Mr F remained unhappy with the investigators view of his complaint and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has said that the council wrote to lender G in 2011 before the HMO licence was 
granted and lender G didnt object. However, I note that Mr F was unable to provide any 
evidence of the application from 2011 when asked and that the council confirmed it had no 
records from the time. As such, I have reviewed the contact notes from the time lender G 
had the mortgage. I can find no record of it having been contacted about a HMO licence or it 
having given consent. 
I also note that at one point Mr F said lender G knew the property was a HMO from the 
outset. However, the mortgage application described the property as a maisonette with two 
bedrooms. Had it been the HMO Mr F now rents it out as, it would have been described as a 
five bedroom property. So again, I am not persuaded lender G was aware from outset that 
the property was an HMO, or indeed that it was a HMO, as it would have been surveyed and 
any inconsistency over the type of property would have been raised at the time. 
So I am not persuaded that when Kensington took over the mortgage that was on the basis 
there was consent in place for it to be rented out as a HMO. Properties that are rented out as 
HMOs represent a very different risk from those rented out as single family occupancies. As 
such, many lender will not provide mortgages for HMOs. What type of risks a lender is willing to take is entirely a matter of its commercial judgement, which we wouldnt in such 
circumstances seek to interfere with.
Kensington was asked for consent for the HMO licence and was not willing to agree. It didnt 
have to give consent and I cant find it was wrong not to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 
26 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman