DRN-4224985
The complaint
Miss L complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 
2006.
Miss L acquired the car in December 2021 (according to a statement of fact document). 
Miss L got the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Advantage for the year from 
January 2022.
In July 2022, Miss L reported to Advantage that a collision with a pothole had caused 
damage to the car, in particular a fuel leak and a juddering.
After Miss L provided photographs, Advantage didnt accept that an accident had caused 
damage to the vehicle. Advantage declined to progress the claim unless Miss L provided an 
inspection report.
In early August 2022, Miss L complained to Advantage that it was unfair to ask her to get a 
report.
By a final response dated mid-August 2022, Advantage turned down that complaint.
Miss L brought that complaint to us in late August 2022.
In February 2023, an ombudsman issued a final decision on that complaint. He directed 
Advantage to pay Miss L £300.00 for distress and inconvenience. His final decision included 
the following:
I also acknowledge Miss Ls view that her complaint about the claim decision should 
be considered here. But I dont agree for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. This is because this took place after she referred this complaint to our 
service - and is subject to a separate complaint the business hadnt yet responded 
to.
By a letter dated 20 April 2023, Advantage told Miss L of her right to bring her further 
complaint to us. Miss L asked us to investigate.
By a final response dated late May 2023, Advantage turned down the further complaint. 
Advantage said that there was no evidence of impact damage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that Advantage hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss L disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Whether Advantage did anything wrong with regards to not covering the claim is not 
the only issue here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. Under those rules, I cannot re-open complaint points that the previous final 
decision dealt with. 
In her complaint in February 2023, Miss L, understandably, went back to her first contact 
with Advantage in July 2022. She concluded her complaint as follows:
The particulars of claim to be remedied and fee schedule for said remedies are as 
follows:
1. failure to adjust for a disabled person under services section 3 Equalities act 
2010 - £5000
2. removal of accessibility for a disabled person/loss of amenity and use of property 
£3000
3. Repair costs and vehicle storage £1500 due to denying my claim as a claimable 
event
4. Annual Insurance refund due to breach of contract and failure to provide a 
service as advertised and maladministration £990.50
5. Injury to feelings and emotional and physical distress £5000
Total remedy sought £15,490.50
Miss L and Advantage may find it helpful to re-read the final decision from February 2023. In 
my view, that final decision dealt with complaint points including the following:
discrimination on the grounds of disability;
telling Miss L her car was a total loss;
going back on an offer to get the car inspected;
incorrectly dating of a letter in August 2022.
So  in line with the rules  I cannot add anything to the previous final decision on those 
points.
I consider that the main or only remaining issue is the central issue of whether Advantage 
unfairly declined the claim.
The policy covered accident damage, but it didnt cover mechanical failure or wear and tear.
Ive looked at the photographic evidence and the reports, including the report from Miss Ls 
garage. I dont consider that possibility of pothole impact reaches the level of probability 
that such an impact damaged Miss Ls vehicle.I also keep in mind that Miss L declined to make the vehicle available for inspection by 
Advantages independent engineers. I dont find it unfair that Advantage considered this to 
be a lack of cooperation in dealing with the claim.
Weighing everything up, I dont consider that Advantage treated Miss L unfairly by declining 
to meet her claim.
So , whilst I accept that Miss L has found the claim process difficult and frustrating, I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to make a refund of premium or to pay further 
compensation or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman