DRN-3277492
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc failed to honour a claim he brought under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint on 23 February 2022, in which I 
explained why I was not minded to uphold his complaint. I have reproduced the text of my 
provisional decision below:
I wont go into the background to this complaint in great detail as the basic facts are 
well known to all parties. However, to summarise briefly:
Mr W entered an agreement in August 2016 with a company Ill call R to 
release him from a timeshare. Its also claimed that R agreed to claim 
compensation for the mis-selling of the timeshare for Mr W. He paid £8,940 for 
Rs services, of which
£1,000 was paid on his Santander credit card.
R failed to release Mr W from the timeshare within the timescale specified in 
the contract, and then ceased trading. It also seems no action was taken with 
respect to any compensation claim.
Later, in early 2019, Mr W brought a claim against Santander under section 75 
of the CCA in respect of Rs failings. Santander declined Mr Ws claim because 
the credit card deposit had not been paid to R, it had been paid to another 
company Ill call ATC. This, the bank said, meant there was no debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) agreement in place for him to have a valid claim. Santander 
was also unconvinced by the evidence which had been supplied of Rs failings.
Mr W complained about the banks decision, which was eventually escalated to this 
service for an independent review. One of our investigators recently looked into the 
case. He considered there was a valid DCS agreement in place, concluding that ATC 
had acted as a payment collection agent for R. He referred to a court case where 
solicitors had taken payments on behalf of a motor trader, and this had been found not 
to invalidate the DCS agreement. The investigator considered the circumstances here 
were sufficiently similar to those in the court case, and that the involvement of ATC 
therefore did not mean there was
not a valid DCS agreement in place.
Our investigator also concluded R had breached its contract with Mr W, and that it 
followed that Santander could be held jointly liable with R due to the effect of section 
75 of the CCA. He recommended the bank reimburse to Mr W the amounts he had 
paid towards his contract with R.
Mr W accepted our investigators assessment, but Santander did not. It said that it 
disagreed that ATC accepting payments for R was similar to the court case the 
investigator had mentioned, and maintained that because of a lack of a valid DCS 
agreement, it had been right to decline Mr Ws section 75 claim.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA gives consumers a degree of protection when they make a 
purchase of goods or services using a credit card, so long as certain criteria have 
been met. If those criteria have been met then the consumer can claim against their 
credit card provider in respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentations by the 
supplier of the goods or services.
One of the technical criteria is that a DCS agreement needs to be in place. Put in 
straightforward terms, what this means is that normally for someone to be able to 
make a valid section 75 claim against their credit card issuer, they need to have paid 
the same company which they say has misrepresented something to them, or 
breached its contract with them. In this case, Mr W didnt pay R using his credit card. 
He paid ATC. So it would appear no DCS agreement would be in place. But things are 
not quite that simple.
A concept which is key in establishing whether or not a DCS agreement is in place, is 
the idea of pre-existing arrangements between the creditor (i.e. the credit card 
issuer) and the supplier of the goods or services being paid for. Without such 
arrangements, a DCS agreement is not in existence and a section 75 claim cannot be 
made.
There are circumstances where, if the credit card payment has not been made directly 
to the supplier, there is nevertheless a DCS agreement because pre-existing 
arrangements are still held to exist between the creditor and supplier. There are two 
main ways in which this can happen. The first is where the supplier and the company 
receiving the credit card payment are associates as defined in section 184 of the 
CCA. Our investigator was unable to find evidence that R and ATC were associates. 
Having carried out research of my own on this point, I agree with this conclusion.
Another way in which pre-existing arrangements can be held to exist between the 
creditor and supplier, where a different payee receives the credit card payment, is if 
the arrangements between the supplier and payee are of a sort which would link the 
supplier to the arrangements between the payee and the creditor. The court case our 
investigator referred to was a case in the High Court involving a firm of solicitors called 
Alfred Truman (Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB)).
The solicitors had as a client a company which imported cars from abroad and sold 
them to consumers. This company was unable to take card payments but wished to do 
so, so it entered a written agreement with Alfred Truman where the solicitors would 
take card
payments from its customers and pass them on, in exchange for a fee. Alfred Truman 
also provided other professional services to the motor trader. The judge held that the 
arrangements between the two companies were sufficient to mean pre-existing 
arrangements were in place between the motor trader and the creditor. However, the judge also observed that other scenarios would need to be resolved on a case by 
case basis and the liability of the creditor would depend on the precise contractual 
arrangements between the parties. The judge contemplated that there would be 
scenarios where the relationship between the parties would be too tenuous for pre-
existing arrangements between the creditor and supplier, and therefore a DCS 
agreement, to exist.
We have tried to ascertain the nature of the relationship between R and ATC, to 
determine its similarity to the scenario the judge considered in Alfred Truman. A 
director of ATC explained to us that an employee of R had known one of their 
employees, and had asked if R could use ATCs card facilities while it applied for its 
own. ATC had agreed to this and taken card payments for Rs customers for a short 
time, passing them on to R.
I think the following findings from our investigation into the relationship between R and 
ATC are important:
R and ATC had no professional or commercial relationship prior to the latter 
agreeing to take payments on behalf of the former, and their only relationship 
appears to have been that ATC took card payments for Rs customers for a 
short time.
ATC was a manufacturer of metal products and did not operate in a sector 
where taking/receiving payments for third parties would be a normal part of 
its business.
The arrangements appear to have been informal and temporary in nature, rather 
than a professional service.
Overall I would characterise the relationship between R and ATC as being akin to one 
trader allowing another trader to use their card machine as a personal favour.
My view is that this scenario is rather different from that considered in Alfred Truman, 
in which the solicitors had a formal contract with the motor trader to act as its agent in 
taking payments, as part of a package of professional services it was providing to a 
client. A solicitor might also be expected to receive payments on behalf of clients, and 
therefore its involvement in such matters would not be seen as unusual or irregular. 
While the judge in that case did not say at what point arrangements would be too weak 
to support a DCS agreement, my view is that the arrangements between R and ATC 
were too tenuous for me to be able to conclude they meant pre-existing arrangements 
were also in place between R and Santander.
This means I dont think there was a valid DCS agreement in place which would allow 
Mr W to make a claim against Santander under section 75 of the CCA. So I am minded 
to conclude that the bank was not wrong to decline Mr Ws claim.
For the sake of completeness, Ive thought about whether Santander could have 
obtained a refund of the card payment Mr W had paid via a chargeback, which is a 
means of disputing payments made on plastic cards. Our investigator said Mr W had 
brought the matter to the banks attention too late for a chargeback to have been 
attempted. I agree. There are rules which apply to chargebacks, which are set by the 
card schemes which administer the card payment networks. The rules make provision 
for time limits, after a card payment has been made, in which to raise a dispute. Under 
these rules, Santander would have had a maximum of 540 days from the date Mr W 
paid ATC, to attempt a chargeback. By the time Santander were made aware of Mr Ws problem, it was unfortunately far too late.
I invited both parties to the complaint to respond to my provisional decision. Santander 
responded to say that it had nothing further to add. Mr Ws representatives said they 
disagreed with the provisional decision. Their arguments could be summarised as follows:
R and ATC were linked. The investigators assessment explained this.
ATC was taking payments on behalf of R, and the email receipt Mr W had 
received after he made the payment provided contact details for an individual at R.
Other cases involving R and ATC at the Financial Ombudsman Service had been 
successful.
Now that responses have been received from both parties, the case has now been returned 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the additional points made by Mr Ws representatives, but they 
dont change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I had already found in my 
provisional decision that ATC was taking payments on behalf of R, so Mr Ws 
representatives dont need to convince me of that. Where my analysis differed was on the 
question of whether ATCs involvement meant that pre-existing arrangements should be 
held to exist between R and Santander, for the purposes of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I didnt think that they did. 
I accept the email receipt Mr W received gave contact details for someone at R, and Ive 
thought about whether that indicates that the arrangements between R and ATC were more 
regular and formal than I had found in my provisional decision, and which might mean it 
would be fair to conclude they fell into the same category as the case of Alfred Truman. I 
dont think that they do. If R had asked ATC for the contact details of one of their employees 
to appear on their receipts in case of customer queries, I think the situation is still a long way 
from the professional payment agency service provided by the solicitors in the Alfred Truman 
case.
I note the comment of Mr Ws representatives, that other cases involving the same 
combination of supplier and payee have been successful at this service. All I can state in 
reply is that I am not bound to follow previous cases at this service which may have been 
decided differently.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman