DRN-3900354
The complaint
Mrs S complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). She wasnt happy about the way UKI 
cancelled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S had her motor insurance with UKI for a number of years on auto renew. But UKI 
changed this and her policy didnt auto renew. And as Mrs S didnt realise she continued 
driving but was stopped by the police for driving without insurance. As Mrs S wasnt happy 
about this she complained to UKI.
When UKI looked into things for her it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It felt it gave 
reasonable notice her policy wouldnt auto renew if she didnt make contact. But Mrs S 
maintained that she spoke to UKI around the time of renewal and asked to be put back on 
auto renew and was told she was on cover. So, she complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and upheld her complaint. She thought UKI 
shouldve wrote out to Mrs S and told her that she was no longer insured after the policy 
finished as it had chosen to take her off auto renew. And she thought, on balance, that Mrs 
S partner had contacted UKI around the time of renewal to continue cover and to place the 
policy back on auto renew.
As UKI didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Although UKI was free to take Mrs S off auto renew if it wished I would expect it to take extra 
steps to ensure its customer was fully aware of this significant change. I say this as Mrs S 
had a reasonable expectation that her policy would simply auto renew as it had for a number 
of years. So, if UKI wanted to change this position I would expect it to make this extremely 
clear to Mrs S. Given the possibility that a consumer may miss its letters explaining this I 
would expect UKI to call consumers as well and do all it could to explain things including why 
it wasnt auto renewing. And send a letter after the policy lapsed explaining the policy hadnt 
auto renewed outlining that Mrs S was no longer insured and the potential dire 
consequences of this. 
Furthermore, it is clear there was some contact between Mrs S partner and UKI around the 
time of renewal. Mrs S has clearly explained that this call was made in order to place her 
back on auto renew and to take out cover for the year. UKI has acknowledged that Mrs S 
policy was accessed on this date, but it cant explain why. Given this, I think it is likely, on 
balance, that a call was made and UKIs system was accessed but for some reason the 
policy wasnt renewed. I think it is only fair to give Mrs S the benefit of any doubt here.
As such, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Mrs S to be put back into the position she should have been but for the error. So UKI 
should pay any costs Mrs S incurred when she was stopped by the police, plus 8% simple 
interest for the time she has been without this money, including a police impound fee. And 
UKI should provide Mrs S with a letter of indemnity explaining its error here and ensure that 
any adverse entry is removed from all internal and external databases. Mrs S can use the 
letter of indemnity in relation to any potential police action or court proceedings and the letter 
of explanation to ensure this incident doesnt affect her ability to gain insurance or impact the 
premium costs going forward.
I agree that it must have been embarrassing, stressful and inconvenient to have been 
stopped by the police and for Mrs S to have her car impounded. So, I think it is only fair for 
UKI to pay Mrs S £250 in compensation.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs S any costs incurred, including any impound fee, subject to Mrs S 
providing reasonable proof. And it should pay 8% simple interest on any costs incurred from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. It should also provide a letter of indemnity and 
pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman