DRN-1309886
 
complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a credit card with Barclaycard in 1999. Shortly after he received the card he 
was sold a PPI policy which wouldve covered the repayments on his account if he wasnt 
able to work. 
Mr M makes a number of complaints about the sale including that he doesnt recall being 
made aware of the policy, and that he felt pressurised to take it. 
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Barclaycard has provided a copy of Mr Ms credit card application form. I can see from this 
that Mr M was given a choice about the PPI and elected not to take it at the point of 
application. Barclaycard says that Mr M would have been sold the PPI during a subsequent 
phone call, although it doesnt have a record of this call or any detail of how the PPI would 
have been sold. I dont find this surprising given over 20 years has passed since the sale. 
This means I have limited information on which to make my decision. 
Mr Ms representative states that Mr Ms English was poor at the time of sale. While this may 
be the case, I have no way of judging how this may have affected the sale. Mr M has no 
memory of the call and his evidence about his complaint has been contradictory at times. 
For example, he has said that he doesnt remember being made aware of the policy, but 
also that the PPI was arranged by a broker and that he felt pressurised to take it. On this 
basis, I cant be satisfied that the PPI was added without Mr Ms knowledge or consent.
I also note that the PPI costs appeared on Mr Ms credit card statements each month. If he 
hadnt agreed to the PPI I think hed have queried this when he saw it. 
Barclaycard has said that its likely they would have provided Mr M with a personal 
recommendation about the PPI. So it had a responsibility to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was right for him. Looking at Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale I think 
its likely the PPI was right for him. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which might have 
made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr M cant remember whether he had any sick pay from his employer. I think he 
would have been entitled to statutory sick pay and statutory redundancy pay, but the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to this;
Mr M didnt have any other means of meeting his repayments if he couldnt work. Mr 
M says his friends and family would have helped him, but this kind of help cant be 
guaranteed.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around 
the same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty.
Its possible that Barclaycard didnt provide Mr M with all the information it ideally should 
have done. For example, I think its unlikely Barclaycard explained the true costs properly. 
But I dont think even if Mr M had all the information he required that he would have acted 
differently and not bought the policy because it was suitable for him in the way Ive already 
described.
So, on balance, I dont think Mr M lost out as a result of anything Barclaycard might have 
done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, so it follows that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, doesnt have to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman