DRN-4360158
The complaint
Mr K complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) refused to tell him when fraud checks on a 
payment were completed.
What happened
Mr K made a payment from his Santander account. After undergoing some security checks 
the payment was referred for additional checks. Mr K was unhappy at the potential wait of 48 
hours before he would know the payment had been made. He explained to the bank he 
couldnt wait and needed contact from them to confirm when this had gone through. He was 
unhappy Santander wouldnt commit to contacting him with this information and complained.  
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response (FRL) sent on the same day as 
the attempted payment and calls Santander explained why the payment had been referred 
and the nature of the restriction on Mr Ks account. It told Mr K it was a temporary restriction 
until the payment had been updated and released.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Santander had followed its fraud 
prevention process and had given a clear and reasonable timescale within which the checks 
would be completed. And she thought whilst it wasnt ideal that Santander couldnt inform Mr 
K as soon as the payment went through, it had followed due process correctly. And the 
payment went through promptly the next day.
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision. He thought the investigator had misunderstood 
Santanders business process as its fraud team was a centralised operation and there was 
no way of bypassing that by turning up at the branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As much as I understand Mr Ks frustrations with whats happened, Ive got to look at 
whether Santander did anything wrong. And, having reviewed all the evidence here I dont 
think they did. So, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain my reasons.
I appreciate the central issue for Mr K isnt the fraud check and hold on the account. Its 
rather that, despite his requests, Santander refused to inform him once the checks were 
complete. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I ought to say Im satisfied Santander followed its 
fraud prevention procedures here. The terms and conditions provide there may be delay in 
processing a faster payment - outside of timescales set out in the conditions - while fraud 
prevention take place. Those terms also provide for the withdrawal or suspension of card 
PIN and personal security details if believed necessary for security reasons. 
Ive listened to the calls and its clear in the final part of his call - where he lodges a complaint 
- Mr Ks told the bank normally send a text/SMS to a customer when the checks are 
complete but also that this couldnt be guaranteed. 
Mr Ks was told by the call operative and the complaint handler that a branch visit with ID 
was an option to speed up the process. Its not explicit in the call if this relates to the 
approval of the transaction or to the online access. Mr Ks recollection was the branch visit 
would only assist with his online access - not to allow the payment to go through 
immediately. During our investigation Santander were able to expand on this. They said in 
some cases branch attendance can mean checks are dealt with quicker as being verified in 
branch with ID makes a more secure checks as a physical body is there and the ID is 
scanned. 
Our investigators already explained its not the banks responsibility to contact customers to 
advise when a payment has been made to or from their account, instead the onus is on the 
customer. Id agree with that, so cant say Santander have done anything wrong in this 
regard. Mr K made the point that, if his account was suspended, he couldnt login to check if 
the payment had gone through. But he also told us, his recollection was the branch visit was 
suggested only in relation to the suspension of his online access. If I accept what Mr K says 
about Santanders proposal - to go into branch  it was giving him a way to work around his 
particular concern. But he choose not to. And, based on what Santander have now told us 
told us, the branch visit was also a possible way of speeding up the process. 
Overall, the checks and the suspension of the account were a part of the process provided 
for in the terms and conditions and a temporary step for a customers protection. This - along 
with the timescales, the explanation that Santander would normally send an SMS and the 
alternative of a branch visit to speed up the verification checks - seems fair and reasonable 
to me. So, I dont think Santander have done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman