DRN-2538117
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society blocked payments he attempted to make using 
his debit card.
What happened
Mr B attempted to make an online payment to a technology retailer in the early hours of the 
morning. The payment was blocked, and so was another to a supermarket a few hours later. 
A short time after that Mr B contacted Nationwide, told it the attempted payments were 
genuine, and it unrestricted his card.
Mr B was unhappy his payments were blocked and that hed had to pass security with, and 
talk to, several people during his call with Nationwide. He complained. Nationwide 
responded to say his payments were blocked because it had concerns that he might not 
have made them. It didnt think it had done anything wrong there. But it apologised to Mr B 
for the poor customer service hed received on his call and paid him £20 compensation.
Mr B didnt think this was a fair resolution to his complaint, so he brought the matter to our 
service for an independent review. Our investigator concluded, in summary, that Nationwide 
was entitled to block payments when it had security concerns and that an apology alongside 
£20 compensation fairly reflected the impact Nationwides poor service had on him. 
Nationwide didnt dispute the investigators findings, but Mr B did. The complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B attempted to make a payment using his debit card. It was blocked and this led to his 
card being restricted. Ive seen from Nationwides records that this was because the 
payment had been flagged for security concerns. Im satisfied the payment was blocked (and 
the card restricted) for a legitimate reason, rather than the result of a mistake. The account 
terms and condition allow Nationwide to act when it has security concerns, so I dont think it 
was wrong to do what it did. 
A second payment was also blocked but following a call from Mr B a short time later, the 
restriction on his card was removed, which allowed him to make payments again. It follows 
that Im satisfied Nationwide removed the restriction within a reasonable amount of time, 
thereby limiting the inconvenience to Mr B. I accept that the customer service could have 
been better, but in my view an apology and £20 compensation was a fair remedy for this.
Im aware Mr B has strong views about an automated system blocking payments on his 
account. However, these systems are standard across the industry and theres nothing to 
say Nationwide cant use them. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to 
use one. In any case, its not within my remit to tell Nationwide what security systems it 
should or shouldnt use. Im also aware Mr B has some suggestions on how Nationwide runs 
its telephony service. But its not within my remit to require Nationwide to implement those. 
And Im aware Mr B says payments have been blocked in the past. If Mr B has any specific 
payments in mind, hell need to query those with Nationwide before our service can consider 
them.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Nationwide  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman