DRN-2485567
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to process and urgent payment in 
time, and about various connected customer service issues.
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs L wanted to buy a van. She went to a branch of Nationwide to withdraw a 
four-figure sum in cash, but the branch staff persuaded her that carrying that much cash 
would be risky and that she should do a money transfer instead, using her mobile phone. 
She was given a phone number to call if anything went wrong, but she was not told that the 
line was only open until 6pm.
Mrs L drove about three hundred miles to collect the van from the seller. But when she tried 
to pay him, the payment did not go through and she received an error message asking to 
phone the bank on a different number. This happened after 6pm, so the first number was not 
answered, and when she called the second number a recorded message asked her for a 
telephone banking number, which she did not have, as she was not registered for telephone 
banking.
To make the payment, Mrs L called a friend and gave her online banking details so her 
friend could make the payment from Mrs Ls account on her own computer. This payment 
was successful, but the money still did not reach the sellers account until early the next 
morning, and until then the seller would not give Mrs L the keys to the van. Afraid that the 
seller might take the van and her money, leaving her with nothing, Mrs L slept in the street 
next to the van, and then drove the van home in the morning. She also says she had hired a 
mechanic for £400 to inspect the van before she bought it, and that the inspection did not go 
ahead. As she was self-employed, she lost a days income because she arrived home a day 
later than planned. She complained to Nationwide about these issues.
Nationwide accepted that its staff had failed to tell Mrs L about the opening hours of its 
helpline, and that she should set up telephone banking. It apologised and paid her £560. But 
Mrs L pursued her complaint further. She said she had ben promised a handwritten letter of 
apology, but had only received a typed letter. She complained that her online banking didnt 
work. And when Nationwide closed her accounts, on the ground that Mrs L had been 
abusive to its staff, she complained about that, since it had interrupted an prevented her 
switching her accounts to a third party. She complained that Nationwide had called the 
police and sent them to her home. Nationwide did not uphold any of those complaints, and 
so Mrs L brought this complaint to our Service. After that, Mrs L complained that Nationwide 
had recorded inaccurate information on her credit file, causing her application for a credit 
card with a third party to be declined. (Nationwide has consented to that new issue being 
dealt with as part of this complaint.)
Nationwide told us that the original payment had been blocked as a fraud prevention 
measure, and the second payment had been delayed for the same reason. It said it never 
sent handwritten letters, and it did not accept that Mrs L had been offered one. Mrs L had 
been de-registered for online banking and had not yet re-registered. It had sent the police to 
check on her because she had become so distraught during a phone call that the call 
handler was worried about her.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that £560 was fair compensation 
for what had gone wrong in relation to the van purchase, and he did not think that 
Nationwide had done anything else wrong. In particular, after listening to a call recording he 
had concluded that Nationwide had been right to call the police and ask them to check up on 
Mrs L. Mrs L asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I will start with the matters which Nationwide does not accept responsibility for, and then 
decide how much compensation I think is fair for the matters where I agree it was at fault.
Its not in dispute that Mrs L had been de-registered for online banking and that she had not 
yet been re-registered. So that is why online banking was not available to her in the 
meantime. Since Mrs L was concerned about her account security being compromised, due 
to her sharing her login details with her friend (a decision which I can well understand in the 
difficult circumstances), I think de-registering was a reasonable precaution to take.
It is unfortunate that Mrs Ls accounts were closed before she was ready (including her 
credit card account), and that this has caused her problems. But I think that Nationwide was 
entitled to do that. There are several records of Nationwides staff stating that Mrs L was 
abusive to them, and Nationwides terms and conditions allow it to close an account 
immediately in those circumstances. Mrs L disputes some of these allegations, but I doubt 
that Nationwides staff have invented them all. Mrs L appears to accept that some of her 
(inadvertent) behaviour could have upset Nationwides staff, attributing this to her mental 
health condition which makes it hard for her to control her emotions, while not meaning to 
upset anybody. But although a building society has a duty to make reasonable adjustments 
to accommodate a customer with mental health issues, it is still also obliged to protect its 
staff as well, and at some point I think it must be reasonable to close an account. I think this 
was a decision Nationwide was entitled to make.
I have listened to the recording of a phone call made in September, in which the call handler 
told Mrs L she was going to call the police because she was concerned about how upset she 
was on the call, and that she was worried that Mrs L might hurt herself. I can see why the 
call handler was worried, and I dont think this was an unreasonable response. (I note that 
Mrs L herself has described Nationwides actions on that call as the kind of thing which 
makes people kill themselves.)
L
Apart from one late payment to Mrs Ls credit card account in 2016, I cant see that any 
adverse information was reported to her credit file which would explain why her application 
for a credit card was declined.
Turning to the van, I dont think it was unreasonable of Nationwide to block and delay the 
transactions, as this is sometimes an inevitable consequence of fraud prevention measures 
in any building society or bank. It can be very inconvenient, but so can being defrauded, and 
so I think I should allow Nationwide a wide margin of discretion in which to act to prevent 
fraud. Sometimes fraud prevention measures will interrupt legitimate transactions, and that 
cant be helped. So I dont fault Nationwide for that. However, Mrs Ls complaint isnt really about that, but that Nationwide misinformed her or didnt give her enough information to 
complete the purchase properly. I agree that Mrs L could have been saved a good deal of 
trouble if she had been given full information about telephone banking and about the 
customer helpline. I dont think it was foreseeable that this error would result in a customer 
sleeping in the street. And I cannot see why the mechanic could not have carried out his 
inspection while waiting for the payment to go through. Overall, I think that £560 is fair 
compensation for this matter.
Finally, I dont think the issue about whether the apology letter should have been handwritten 
falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service, which is limited to 
complaints about financial products and services.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, on the ground that the £560 already paid 
is fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman