DRN-2454201
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that HSBC Life (UK) Limited mis-sold life assurance, trauma cover, and 
unemployment protection to him.
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage with his then partner in late 2009. Around the same time, HSBC 
sold him a decreasing term life assurance policy, and unemployment cover. These policies 
both started in February 2010. Around a year later, Mr C and his partner split up and Mr C 
took on the whole mortgage. He met with HSBC and amended his cover  he cancelled the 
life assurance and replaced it with a decreasing term trauma policy. And he took out 
additional unemployment cover to increase his total protection.
Mr C cancelled all his policies in February 2019.
Mr C is now complaining that HSBC pressured him to take out the products. He says they 
led him to believe that not taking out the policies would delay his mortgage applications or 
possibly lead to them being declined. And he said HSBC didnt tell him about what 
government benefits would have been available or how government support would compare 
to the benefits provided by the policies. Mr C also mentioned that he wasnt aware HSBC 
were receiving commission for the sale of his policies.
Mr Cs also brought a complaint to our service about an income protection policy he took out 
with HSBC in 2007  but thats been investigated separately so I wont mention it further in 
this decision.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said that although she hadnt seen 
much in the way of documentation for the 2010 sale, she didnt think the policies Mr C took 
out then were mis-sold. She said they seemed suitable for his needs at the time. And she 
said that given they started after the mortgage was drawn down, it didnt seem that they 
could have been sold as a condition of the mortgage.
In relation to the 2011 sale, our investigator noted that Mr C had engaged with the process 
and made proactive choices about the level of cover he wanted. So, she didnt think Mr C 
had been pressured into the sale. She commented that employer benefits and state 
provisions arent guaranteed and so its sensible to have additional protection in place. 
And in relation to commission, our investigator said the unfair relationship provisions set out 
in section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act didnt apply to Mr Cs complaint. And she said 
that the Insurance Conduct of Business Rules Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules in place at the 
time didnt require businesses to disclose commission to consumers. So she didnt think 
HSBC had acted wrongly in not disclosing any commission to Mr C.
Mr C wasnt happy with our investigators view. He reiterated that hed been told that unless 
he bought HSBCs financial protection the mortgage would take a lot longer to be approved 
and may not be approved at all. He also reiterated that HSBC didnt factor in his existing 
savings or state benefits as they claimed to. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
case  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will be a disappointment to Mr C, Im not upholding his complaint for 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain further below.
Sale of the life assurance and unemployment cover in late 2009 / early 2010
Unfortunately, Ive seen very little documentation from the mortgage taken out in 2009 or the 
policies which started in early 2010. I havent seen anything which suggests that Mr C 
needed to take the cover out as a condition of his mortgage, nor any indication that Mr C 
was told that taking the cover out would improve his chances of getting a mortgage 
application approved quickly. However, I note that Mr C could have cancelled the policies at 
any time if he felt hed only taken them in order to secure a mortgage.
Ive thought about what the rules at the time said about advised sales of protection policies. 
ICOBS required HSBC to:
take reasonable care to ensure that a policy is suitable for the customer's demands and 
needs, taking into account its level of cover and cost, and relevant exclusions, excesses, 
limitations and conditions
Mr Cs share of the mortgage was a significant joint financial liability. Mr C didnt have any 
other financial protection in place at the time (aside from the income protection policy). And I 
can see the life assurance he was sold matched the amount and term of the mortgage  so 
Im satisfied it was a suitable recommendation to provide financial security to Mr C and his 
partner. 
In relation to the unemployment cover, I appreciate Mr Cs complained that HSBC didnt take 
into account state benefits or employer benefits that he might be entitled to. But both 
employer and state benefits can change at any time  and at the time of the sale neither 
would have provided as much cover as the unemployment policy Mr C took out. The 
unemployment cover was designed to cover his mortgage payments for a period of up to 
twelve months. In contrast, Mr C said he would have been entitled to only four months 
redundancy pay from his employer at the time. So, Im satisfied it was a suitable product for 
Mr C. 
Sale of the trauma cover in 2011
Given Mr C had split from his partner in 2011, it was appropriate to review his needs for 
financial protection. He had no dependents and was taking the mortgage on in his name 
only, so he no longer needed life assurance. 
Trauma cover is designed to provide financial protection in the event of a specified serious 
illness or surgical operation. In Mr Cs case, if hed needed the cover, it would have allowed 
him to pay off the entire mortgage and therefore gave him financial security in this respect.
The advisors notes from the 2011 sales state: since then he has separated from his partner 
and has changed the mortgage to his sole name and wishes to review his existing protection 
with a view to increasing it and has built up savings but does require some funds to pay [his ex-partner] for her equity in the home. Elsewhere, the notes say Mr Cs savings were in 
the region of £12k.
Given that the notes from the time of the sale say that Mr C was looking to increase his 
protection  and that he had limited savings  Im satisfied the decreasing term trauma cover 
was a suitable recommendation for Mr Cs circumstances. 
Ive also seen that the Premium Quotation sent to Mr C in relation to the trauma cover 
specifically states: Where the policy is in connection with other goods or services, such as a 
mortgage, this policy is not a requirement of purchasing those other goods or services.  So I 
cant say HSBC told Mr C the trauma cover was a condition of his mortgage. On the 
contrary, they made it clear that it wasnt a condition of the mortgage.
Sale of additional unemployment cover in 2011
HSBC sold Mr C the additional unemployment cover around three weeks after the trauma 
cover, following an appointment and financial planning review with a different HSBC advisor.
The financial planning report makes it clear that Mr C was engaged in the discussion about 
his needs. For example, the advisor notes that shed recommended Mr C take additional 
critical illness cover but he only wanted enough cover to protect his mortgage. The report 
includes an assessment of Mr Cs monthly expenditure and again its clear that Mr C was 
engaged in the conversation as the report notes he asked for certain items to be deducted 
from the total assessment and commented on the age limit of the policy.
This financial planning report specifically notes that state benefits are an option for Mr C to 
rely on  but explains: State Benefits are limited in amount and means tested. This means 
they are unlikely to meet more than your basic essential needs. Any savings or assets you 
have may prevent you from successfully claiming them. So I think its clear HSBC did 
explain to Mr C why it wasnt prudent to rely on state benefits. 
Although I cant see HSBC considered Mr Cs employer redundancy pay, I cant say that 
would have impacted the sale. As Ive explained above, employer benefits are subject to 
change at any time  and HSBCs unemployment cover would have provided greater 
financial protection than Mr Cs expected redundancy pay from his employer.
Its clear that HSBC completed a detailed assessment of Mr Cs monthly expenditure and 
protection needs in 2011 and Im satisfied that the unemployment cover they sold to him was 
suitable as a result. 
Finally, the customer instruction form confirms Mr Cs decision to take out the unemployment 
cover suggested by HSBC. But it also shows that Mr C chose not to take the income 
protection plan recommended by HSBC  instead he chose a cheaper income protection 
plan. This demonstrates to me that Mr C was engaged in the process and knew he could 
choose the level of protection he took. So although I appreciate Mr C says he felt pressured 
to take out the policies, I havent seen any evidence that was the case  its clear he knew 
he could choose the level of protection he took out.
Commission
The Unfair Relationship provisions, as set out in sections 140A-D of the Consumer Credit 
Act might apply to certain circumstances where policies were sold alongside certain types of 
credit or loans. I note that not all of the policies were taken out at the same time as Mr Cs 
mortgages, so sections 140A-D of the Consumer Credit Act would not apply to each of the 
policies Mr Cs complaining about. Further to this, and as our investigator previously explained, any sale of mortgages (and 
associated policies) after 31 October 2004 is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Each of the policies Mr C is complaining about was sold in 2010 and 2011. So, if they 
were sold alongside Mr Cs mortgages, the mortgage sales would have been regulated by 
the FCA. The unfair relationship provisions set out in section 140A-D of the Consumer Credit 
Act dont apply to regulated mortgage contracts so arent relevant when considering Mr Cs 
complaint about the non-disclosure of commission.
The FCA rules for the sale of these policies are covered by ICOBS  and at the time of the 
sale didnt require businesses to disclose commission paid or received. So I cant say HSBC 
acted wrongly in not disclosing any commission to Mr C.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint against HSBC Life (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman