DRN-3534248
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund a cash withdrawal of £700 
that it says it didnt receive.
What happened
A says that when it tried to withdraw £700 on 10 April 2020 it didnt receive any money. It 
wants this money to be refunded.
TSB said it wouldnt be making a refund. It had applied a temporary refund to the account 
while it raised a query with the cash machine operator. But it was satisfied that the money 
was correctly dispensed and so it re-debited the money.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that A had 
raised this dispute in August 2020, and it says it was prompted by another problem at the 
cash machine. TSB had investigated this, and the withdrawal was supported with technical 
evidence. She noted that the other director of A had used the same cash machine about 90 
minutes earlier that evening to withdraw £540 without incident: and then within a minute after 
the disputed withdrawal to take out £20. She thought it unlikely A would have tried to use the 
same machine again if it thought it was faulty.
A didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. There was an error at the cash 
machine, and it expected the money to be automatically returned. The card involved was 
swallowed by the machine and it rebooted. This had happened twice more later in the year 
and the further disputed amounts had been refunded. A had now stopped using this machine 
and this was the only one where this seemed to happen.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2022 as I wanted to explain my 
reasoning. I set out below what I said.
Id asked TSB to provide the actual evidence it received from the cash machine owner about 
the disputed withdrawal. While I had seen a copy of the journal entries for the machine 
showing this transaction and the ones before and after it, I hadnt seen direct confirmation 
that the machine balanced and that for example no notes had been rejected. I would expect 
to see this. I had as a result considered closely what A has said about what happened.
The director of A has given different accounts to this service. At one point he said that he 
had successfully withdrawn this money the following day and then corrected this to say that 
this was on 24 April 2020. And he then explained that the further withdrawal using the other 
directors card had only been for £20 as the money wasnt urgently required: it was being 
taken out in advance to pay for work.
But the director of A was clear that the card was swallowed, and the machine rebooted, and 
he waited while this happened. I noted that the disputed withdrawal was made at 20:07:19 
(hours: minutes: seconds) that evening and the next one with the other directors card at 
20:08:03. Thats clearly a short period later. The card used for the disputed withdrawal 
ended in numbers 9704. I noted from the statements for A that this card was used for debit 
card payments to different organisations until July 2020. The records from TSB show that a 
new card ending 1721 was issued to this director to replace this on 6 July 2020, the 
previous card then having been reported as lost or stolen. For completeness that further 
card was replaced with one ending 7979 on 4 August 2020  the day that this director said 
that the card ending 1721 had been retained when no cash had been received on a 
withdrawal of £700. 
The dispute about the April withdrawal was raised on 20 August 2020 based on TSBs 
records. A temporary refund was issued on 21 August 2020 and this was reversed on 25 
September 2020. TSB says it was in contact with the cash machine owner and was satisfied 
with the response. As I said Ive seen the journal roll. Its notes indicate that the director was 
also given the cash machine owners details.
I couldnt know exactly what happened and I was thinking about what is most likely. I needed 
to balance all the information.
On one hand A has received two refunds of £700 for withdrawals at this same machine on 6 
July and 4 August 2020. I wasnt looking at the circumstances of those withdrawals as they 
arent part of this complaint. But TSB has clearly differentiated between the cases based on 
the evidence it has received and Id no reason to think that it didnt go through its normal 
process each time. 
The version of events by the director of A doesnt seem to be reliable. The information is that 
this card wasnt retained by the machine: had this happened it wouldnt have been later 
returned. The machine seemed to be operating correctly before this transaction based on 
the journal roll and As earlier and later successful withdrawals. There was a limited time for 
the machine to reboot as A said happened. The further withdrawal of £20 may have been to 
test the machine but would also in my view have reasonably revealed to A that the £700 had 
been debited. I found the directors evidence that he assumed this would be corrected for A 
and didnt notice the money was missing until some four months later to be implausible. And 
he had the opportunity to notice that the money hadnt been refunded before he says it was 
withdrawn for A again on 24 April 2020. The other disputed amounts later in the year were 
very quickly reported and I didnt see what was different about this one. I didnt rule out that 
given the passage of time some confusion has arisen here about withdrawals especially 
given the frequency it seems with which A withdraws the amount of £700.
Weighing all the information I wasnt persuaded its most likely that A didnt receive this 
money on 10 April 2020. Id arrived at this conclusion with some different reasoning to that 
given by our investigator. And so, my decision was provisional to allow A and TSB to make 
any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither A nor TSB made any comments. So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman