DRN-3155611
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the ongoing fees charged to him by Expatriate Advisory 
Services Plc (trading as ISA Ltd) for ISAs he has taken out through them on a number of 
occasions, over several years.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr M is unhappy with the fees he has paid to ISA Ltd, having taken out a number of 
ISAs through them over many years. 
However, I think the fees were made clear to Mr M. ISA Ltd have provided us with a 
copy of an illustration they say was sent to him in November 2015. It explains what 
investments he held through them and what the ongoing charges are for using their 
platform. Mr M has said that he didnt receive this document. However, it is dated and 
addressed correctly and we have a copy of the postal record which says it was sent. I 
cant hold ISA Ltd responsible if he didnt receive it, as I am satisfied they sent it. 
Mr M has also raised general complaint issues with the fairness and clarity of 
charges being applied across the financial services sector. The investigator 
explained that we look at individual complaints and that general complaints concerns 
such as this would be for the regulator. 
Mr M has said that he has paid over £5,000 in fees since 2015 and doesnt think he 
has had value for that money. However, that isnt something I can uphold a complaint 
for. ISA Ltd have done what they were contractually obliged to and I havent seen 
any evidence of requests from Mr M not being carried out. As has been explained, 
they dont offer financial advice but work on an execution-only basis. They have also 
written to Mr M in the past to let him know that he could contact them for a review of 
his holdings. I havent seen that he did this. 
If Mr M was unhappy with the service he was receiving or the fees he was paying, he 
could have requested to cancel the agreement with ISA Ltd. This is something that 
was stated in the terms of business, sent to Mr M bi-annually. The fees charged by 
ISA Ltd is a commercial decision for them, Mr M should have been aware of them 
and didnt need to agree to them. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ms frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
believe the fees Mr M was paying were made clear to him and he should have been aware 
that he could have discontinued with the agreement if he so wished. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman