DRN-3564621
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan provided to him by GeorgeBanco.com Limited, (GBL), which
he says was unaffordable. GBL has since been acquired by Everyday Lending Limited. So,
for ease, I shall refer to the lender as ELL below. Mr Ss complaint has been brought to this
service on his behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to
all actions being taken by Mr S except as otherwise stated.
What happened
ELL entered into an agreement for a loan for Mr S in January 2016. The loan was for £5,000 
and was repayable by 60 monthly payments of £215.09. The interest rate was 39.48%, 
(57.5% APR). If Mr S made each repayment when it was due, the total amount payable was 
£12,905.40. The loan was for student fees. The loan was repaid in December 2020. 
Mr S says that interest on the loan was very high and the loan was so easy to get. He was in 
a sustained period of loan dependency for many years.
In its final response letter, ELL said that Mr S would have a monthly disposable income of 
approximately £1,200. So, it couldnt agree that the loan was unaffordable.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He didnt think ELL 
had undertaken proportionate checks and it couldnt be fully certain this loan was affordable 
because it had relied on automated checks and a pounds and pence affordability calculation 
without manual evidence. Our investigator had been told by Mr S that the income provided
in his application of £3,100 was his gross monthly income and not his net income. He said
he was around £3,000 in arrears with his utilities and was using payday loans to pay his bills
and debts. Mr S also provided information from his credit report summary which
suggested evidence of payday lending. The investigator also noted that Mr S had a high 
level of credit card indebtedness and it was likely the need to borrow again would arise. So 
further checks couldve allowed  ELL to satisfy itself the loan would not just be affordable but 
sustainable for the next five years.
ELL disagreed and responded to the investigators view by saying:-
- It used a commercial system to obtain a credible verification of Mr Ss stated income. 
And the income stated was within 10% of what Mr S provided on his application. So, it 
didnt consider it necessary to obtain further corroborative evidence to validate his 
stated income. It had also calculated that if Mr Ss gross monthly income was £3,100 for 
the tax year 2016/2017, Mr Ss average net monthly income would have been £2,372.
- It had calculated Mr Ss monthly credit card repayments to be £565 using 3% of the 
balances. It said that the investigator had suggested that a more reasonable figure 
would be a monthly payment of 5%. It wasnt sure that it would have been common 
practice to use a figure of 5% in 2016 when this loan was written. That said, if it 
accepted the figure of £952 calculated by the investigator, then this would still have left 
Mr S with an approximate disposable income of £188 per month allowing for the net 
salary calculated above.
- The investigator had been unable to obtain credible supporting documentation from     
Mr S to substantiate his assertion of harm and appeared to be placing disproportionate 
weight on the borrowers testimony. It didnt agree that it was reasonable to do that in 
the circumstances. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S
and to ELL on 26 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when ELL lent to Mr S, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not 
a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the loan agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr S. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, Id considered the 
following questions:- Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did ELL make a fair lending decision? 
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Id noted that ELL had gathered some information from Mr S about his income and rent 
before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. Mr S told ELL that he was 
married, and he had no dependents.
ELL said its adviser calculated Mr Ss average net monthly income as £3,100 based on the 
loan application details. ELL said it verified Mr Ss income using an income verification tool 
through a credit reference agency which drew on bank account data. Mr S said he 
contributed £150 a month to his rent. And ELL used statistical data from the Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) to estimate Mr Ss likely living costs as £774. ELL said that Mr Ss 
monthly credit commitments were £565 based on 3% of his credit card balances. ELL 
calculated that Mr S would have a monthly disposable income of £1,293.92 after its loan 
repayment.  
Id noted that ELL had used minimum repayment amounts to calculate Mr Ss monthly credit 
card repayments. But I didnt think this was reasonable. As ELL was aware, making 
minimum repayments effectively extended credit card debt potentially for years and it added 
very significantly to the long term cost of that credit. Repayments at that level were 
insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into card balances. 
The lender provided this Service with its credit checks which Id reviewed. Mr S had five 
credit cards, the most recent of which had been opened around five months prior to the loan 
application. Although all five accounts were nearing their respective credit limits, Mr S 
appeared to be managing his repayments satisfactorily and I couldnt see recent evidence of 
missed payments or the credit limits being exceeded. 
The checks also showed that Mr S had taken out what appeared to be a short term loan for 
£350 two months before his loan application. I could also see that hed taken out a short 
term loan for £250 in September 2015 which was repaid 11 days later and another short 
term loan in July 2015 for £500 which was repaid in September 2015. 
ELL was likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full extent of  
Mr Ss credit commitments at the time of his loan application. The information wasnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit 
reference agencies. 
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. The checks suggested that Mr S 
had managed his credit commitments satisfactorily. But I thought ELL might have been 
concerned about the relatively high credit card balances which were all near their respective 
credit limits and Mr Ss occasional but recent use of short term loans. Altogether, I thought 
ELL might have been concerned as to why someone with such a large proportion of 
available income (according to its own calculations) would need to borrow expensive credit. 
ELL had calculated that Mr Ss disposable income each month was around £1,300 which I 
didnt consider to be consistent with Mr Ss use of short term loans, the large balances on his 
credit cards, and the need to borrow a high cost loan. I thought all this might have suggested that Mr Ss finances were under pressure. And I thought they should have led ELL to 
conclude it should gather some more information about Mr Ss finances.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on statistical information about Mr Ss 
living costs without verifying it. ELL used ONS data, which was based on the finances and 
expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Ss living expenses. But I didnt think it 
was reasonable for ELL to think that Mr Ss circumstances fell within this average portfolio. 
ELLs affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr S and I thought it should have been in 
his circumstances. Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would 
need to make monthly repayments of around £215 for 60 months. The loan wasnt being 
used for debt consolidation, so Mr Ss overall debt was being increased. Given the length of 
time Mr S was committing to repay the credit and what ELL would have likely seen on its 
credit checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for ELL to get a clear picture of Mr Ss 
finances at the time. I thought it would have been proportionate for ELL to independently 
check the true state of Mr Ss finances before agreeing the loan. 
ELL was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments sustainably 
and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this by, for example, requesting bank 
statements from Mr S, asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his expenses and by 
asking him for more information about his existing credit commitments. I couldnt see that 
ELL had taken steps to do this. 
But although I thought ELL should have asked for some additional information before 
agreeing the loan, that in itself didnt mean that Mr Ss complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown ELL that Mr S 
couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. 
What would further checks have shown? 
Id noted that the investigator had asked for Mr Ss credit report and that the claims 
management company acting for Mr S had tried to obtain bank statements from around the 
time of the loan from Mr S. But we hadnt received copies of these. 
Id also noted that in May 2021, Mr S had provided some information from a credit report but 
there were no dates nor amount or repayment details about the accounts shown. He said his 
outgoings were higher than his income at the time of the loan and he was using payday 
loans to meet his outgoings every month and he was negative on his disposable income 
every month. In addition, he said he was also in arrears on his utility bills by nearly £3,000. 
Hed also said that his declared income was his gross income, and not his net income.
Id appreciated that Mr S had set out some information about his financial situation at the 
time of the loan application. But I didnt think it would be reasonable for me to rely on it as it 
was provided more than five years after taking out the loan, and I preferred to rely on bank 
statements from around the time of the loan application which would provide a more 
accurate picture of Mr Ss financial situation.
So, I hadnt been able to get an accurate picture of what Mr Ss financial situation was like at 
the time of his loan application. That meant I couldnt say that, if ELL had completed further 
checks, it wouldve found that the loan wasnt sustainable. So, based on the information Id 
seen, I wasnt able to conclude that ELL shouldnt have agreed to provide the loan to Mr S. 
But Id said that if Mr S was able to provide us with copies of his bank statements from 
around the time of the loan application, I would reconsider my decision. But subject to any 
further representations by Mr S or ELL, I didnt intend to say that Mr Ss complaint should be 
upheld.Mr S hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
ELL responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr S and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont
uphold this complaint.
I appreciate that what Ive said is going to disappoint Mr S and Im sorry to have to do that. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help to explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman