DRN-2810190
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt remove a potential fraud block from his account 
when he confirmed to them that he was authorising the transaction in question.
What happened
Mr B attempted to make a payment of approximately £16,500 from his TSB bank account, 
but the transaction was blocked by TSB. Mr B contacted TSB and explained that he was 
making the transaction to pay for a car and that the transaction was authorised by him and 
so should be allowed to proceed. TSB confirmed that they had removed the block from Mr 
Bs account and the call was ended.
However, when Mr B then tried to make the transaction again, he found that his account was 
still blocked. Mr B tried to contact TSB again about this but couldnt get through. Mr B then 
made the payment from an account he holds with another bank. But he wasnt happy with 
the difficulty that hed experienced when trying to pay with his TSB account, especially given 
that when he called TSB he was on hold for a significant period of time. So, he made a 
complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Bs complaint. They explained that the declining of payments on the basis 
of potential fraud is undertaken to protect their customers and they didnt feel that it had 
been unreasonable that this payment had been flagged as potentially suspicious by their 
fraud prevention system. However, they acknowledged that Mr B had been inconvenienced 
by what had happened, including that the transaction had been blocked for a second time, 
and so they upheld Mr Bs complaint and made a payment of £20 to Mr B to cover his call 
costs and a further £50 to compensate Mr B for the inconvenience he had incurred.
Mr B didnt feel that TSBs response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that Mr B had been 
inconvenienced by what had happened, but they felt that TSBs response to Mr Bs 
complaint, including the payments totalling £70 made to Mr B, did represent a fair and 
reasonable outcome to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable that Mr B would have been frustrated by what took place here, especially 
given that he took the time to call TSB and explain to them that the blocked transaction was 
authorised by him and should be allowed to proceed. And I can appreciate that Mr Bs 
frustration may have been exacerbated by the long hold times he experienced when calling 
TSB and by the fact that he had to be transferred between departments and explain the 
situation afresh to new TSB employees, as well as by the fact that when he tried to call TSB 
after the transaction was declined for the second he was unable to get through at all.
In circumstances like this, what this service would expect would be that the business would 
acknowledge the inconvenience caused and offer fair and reasonable compensation to their 
customer in consideration of what took place.
I think that TSB have done that here. They apologised to Mr B and made payments totalling 
£70 to Mr B to cover the cost of the calls Mr B had to make and to compensate him for the 
inconvenience he incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as fair and reasonable 
by one party not being considered as such by another. And Im aware that Mr B feels that 
the amount of compensation that TSB should pay to him here should be significantly higher. 
But the payment totalling £70 that TSB have already paid to Mr B does feel to me, and I 
must note that its commensurate with what this service would expect for circumstances 
such as these. 
I must also note that its not the role of this service to punish or fine businesses in any way, 
but to ensure that a business pays an amount of compensation to a customer thats fair, and 
which appropriately compensates that customer for the inconvenience that theyve incurred. 
Ultimately, I feel that TSB have done that here.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking TSB to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr 
B can understand, given what Ive explained above, why I have made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.                        
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman