DRN-3368816
The complaint
Mr O complains that Furness Building Society failed to notify him when regular payments 
intended for his savings account werent received.
 
What happened
Mr O has a savings account with Furness that accepts regular deposits. The July 2021 
payment was made by standing order towards the beginning of the month but returned to 
Mr Os bank because the reference number included was wrong. The August 2021 standing 
order payment was returned for the same reason. 
Mr O complained and Furness talked to him and issued a final response. Furness said the 
issue had been caused due to incorrect reference numbers included with Mr Os standing 
order payments. Furness agreed that Mr O could make up the payments hed missed but 
didnt agree it had acted unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Os complaint but thought Furness had dealt with 
it fairly. Mr O didnt agree and said hed had to make several calls to resolve the matter and 
that his complaint handler had left Furness after theyd issued its final response. Mr O 
explained he feels the his account had been poorly administered. As Mr O asked to appeal, 
his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent found evidence of errors by Furness in this case. I think its reasonable to say the 
issue came about due to an error with the reference number included in Mr Os standing 
order payments in July and August 2021. Furness wasnt responsible for setting up the 
standing order instruction or recording the reference number used. Mr Os payments were 
then returned to his bank as they couldnt be credited to his savings account. In my view, 
that was a reasonable step for Furness to take when it couldnt credit Mr Os savings 
account. 
When Mr O realised something had gone wrong he had to take action to resolve the issue. I 
understand caused some inconvenience for Mr O. But as there was an error with the 
reference number used in his standing order, there were steps only Mr O could take to fix 
the issue. And, as Ive said above, I havent seen anything that indicates Furness was 
responsible for the problem with the references used. I can see there was some 
inconvenience to Mr O, but I havent found grounds to tell Furness to pay compensation. 
Furness agreed to accept the missed deposits. Based on the information Ive seen, that 
returns Mr Os account to the position he wouldve been had the July and August 2021 been 
credited as normal and means theres no financial loss. Im satisfied thats a fair way to 
resolve Mr Os complaint. 
As I havent seen evidence of a financial loss and Im satisfied Furness dealt with Mr Os 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman