DRN-2643757
The complaint
Mr B has complained First Rate Exchange Services Ltd wont refund him for transactions 
made on his travel money card.
What happened
Mr B took out a travel money card at the Post Office in November 2019. Later that month he 
got a call from First Rate, who issue these travel money cards. They wanted to check 
whether hed recently been abroad as thered been five transactions which they believed 
may be suspicious. Mr B confirmed hed not been in the country where the transactions had 
taken place.
After consideration First Rate believed that Mr B may have been involved in those 
transactions. They closed his account and refunded the money left on his travel money card. 
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service as he believed he should also have 
the money refunded for the five transactions hes not made.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included information First Rate provided in 
confidence. Overall she felt it was most likely Mr B had authorised these transactions.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome. He provided a full copy of his passport to show hed not 
been in the country where the disputed transactions had taken place. Hes asked an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by First Rate and Mr B 
(including the copy of his passport). Ive also noted the detail about the individual disputed 
transactions in our investigators view of 3 February 2021 and therefore as all parties know 
that detail, I wont be repeating that here.
I can see when First Rate contacted Mr B, he didnt suggest he no longer held the card that 
had been used to carry out the disputed transactions. I can see from his statements that this 
was a card Mr B was using regularly  even to buy coffee at a local outlet as well as on other 
overseas trips.
The data First Rate provided to us indicates that a card, bearing the details of Mr Bs card, 
was used to authenticate the five disputed transactions. Ive also taken into account Mr B 
had been using his card not long before the disputed transactions. It appears that 
transactions overseas only swiped the magnetic stripe on his card so its not completely 
clear whether Mr Bs genuine card was used to make these transactions. However I dont 
believe thats crucial bearing in my mind my overall conclusion.
I can see from the receipts First Rate shared that two of these transactions were for high-
value luxury goods. Both of the receipts use slightly different names but both of these bear 
resemblance to the names on Mr Bs passport. At least one set of items was signed for in 
authentication. Ive reviewed the signature on Mr Bs passport and compared this to the one 
on the receipt. I think its fair to say that the latter is more of a scrawl than a signature. So the 
signature may well not be Mr Bs  and that, of course, matches his (and his passports) 
evidence that he wasnt in the relevant country at this time. That may signify Mr B didnt 
make the transactions personally but I dont think that confirms definitively Mr B didnt 
authorise the transactions.
First Rate has shared confidential data with us. This indicates a history of travel cards being 
taken out by individuals, where initially small-value local transactions are undertaken (all of 
these seem to take place around where Mr B lives). These are then followed up by luxury 
items being purchased overseas that the cardholder then disputes. First Rate believes the 
similarity between those cases and Mr Bs indicate that he may have been complicit. Its 
clear that this was the basis of their decision to firstly block further transactions and then 
close his account.
On balance and taking all the evidence into account I am satisfied it is more than likely Mr B 
authorised the disputed transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against First 
Rate Exchange Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman