DRN-3365304
The complaint
Mr H complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited gave him poor service under a 
breakdown repair insurance policy.
Where I refer to Acromas, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Acromas 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr H had a hatchback car, first registered in 2010.
For the year from mid-July 2021, Mr H became a member of a motoring organisation. That 
gave him certain benefits including roadside assistance if his vehicle had a breakdown. Mr H 
also took out a breakdown repair  or Parts and Garage insurance policy.
The policy was branded with the name of the members organisation. The policy covered 
repairs following a breakdown up to a financial limit of £500.00 including VAT and subject to 
an excess of £35.00. Acromas was the insurance company responsible for dealing with any 
claim on the policy.
On 21 August 2021 (a Saturday), Mr H called for roadside assistance. The motoring 
organisation sent a patrolman. He didnt fix the car at the roadside. He wrote a breakdown 
report mentioning the cars flywheel.
Within a week, Mr H had got a garage to replace his cars clutch and flywheel at a cost of 
about  £640.00. He claimed the cost form Acromas  under the Parts and Garage cover. 
Acromas declined to reimburse Mr H, saying he hadnt contacted its claims line before the 
repair.
Mr H complained to Acromas that its patrolman hadnt told him to contact the claims line 
before getting the repairs carried out.
By a final response dated early September 2021, Acromas turned down the complaint. It 
said it had declined the claim primarily because it hadnt authorised repairs (but also 
because failure of the flywheel is usually gradual). In its final response Acromas included the 
following:
I understand you feel you were misled by our patrol who stated that you should book 
your vehicle into a garage for repair and then make a claim on Parts and Garage 
cover. I am sorry if the language used by our patrol was confusing. I am upholding 
this part of your complaint and I have sent feedback to the patrols manager.
Mr H brought his complaint to us in October 2021.
Our investigator found that the policy documents and the breakdown report clearly said that 
Mr H must contact the claims department prior to any repairs being carried out. So she didnt 
recommend that Acromas should contribute to the repair costs. 
At first, the investigator thought that Acromas was responsible for the patrolman using 
confusing language. She recommended that Acromas should provide Mr H with £50.00 
compensation for the poor service and any confusion caused.
Later the investigator changed her view. She said that the advice given by the patrolman 
was out of our jurisdiction. 
Acromas agreed with the investigators revised opinion.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators revised opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
The companys employee patrolman incorrectly directed him to book the car in for 
immediate repair work and then claim back the cost afterwards. He had no choice but 
to follow that instruction, causing him to be out of pocket. 
He is seeking reimbursement of £500.00 of the costs incurred, and/or any 
compensation that the ombudsman sees fit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We have power to investigate a consumers complaint against a regulated 
financial firm about regulated activities or ancillary activities.
Under DISP 2.31.1 and the Regulated Activities Order 2001, the provision by the members 
organisation to its members of roadside assistance in the UK is not a regulated activity. So I 
dont have the legal power to decide Mr Hs main complaint that the patrolman misinformed 
him about how to make a claim under the breakdown repair insurance. 
I say that notwithstanding the contents of the Acromas final response including its reference 
to our patrol
According to an MOT check, the vehicle had a recorded milage of over 100,000 by August 
2020.
The Parts and Garage cover was for a repair following a breakdown, that is a sudden and 
unexpected event that caused the vehicle to be unable to continue its journey safely.
The policy excluded the following:
Costs for repairs that existed prior to cover being purchased

Costs for repairs to; clutch friction plate
So the policy didnt cover a worn-out clutch.
The policy terms included the following:
If your vehicle cant be fixed at the roadside and needs to be taken to a garage, 
youll need to call the [Acromas] Parts and Garage Cover claims helpline...before any repairs are started, you and the repairer must agree on what needs to be 
done and these repairs must then be authorised by the Parts and Garage Cover 
claim handler.
So Mr H had to get a claim-handler to authorise repairs in advance. 
Whatever the patrolman said, the policy terms said that Mr H had to contact Acromas 
claims-handlers and get repairs authorised before the garage started repairs. 
Ive seen an invoice for two spare parts totalling £240.00 including VAT. Ive also seen a 
garage invoice for £220.00 (no VAT) for fitting a clutch and flywheel kit.
Ive seen evidence from its file that Acromas contacted the garage on 1 September, but the 
garage said it had disposed of the parts it had replaced. So I find that Mr Hs failure to get 
Acromas to authorise the repairs in advance had prejudiced his insurers ability to consider 
whether the policy covered the repair.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to meet Mr Hs claim or to pay him 
compensation or to do any more in response to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont have the legal power to 
consider Mr Hs complaint about what the patrolman told him. In all other respects, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont direct Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman