DRN-3376544
The complaint
Mr K complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) mis-sold his term assurance 
cover and later failed to notify him of the need for a financial adviser to amend his policy.
What happened
In 2010 Mr K took out a level term assurance policy with Scottish Widows, it had a term of  
25 years and would pay out a lump sum of £90,000 upon death.
In 2021 Mr K enquired about amending his cover following a change in circumstance. 
Scottish Widows explained he wouldnt be able to do so without a financial adviser, and that 
this had been the case since 2018.
Mr K complained that the policy wasnt suitable as he was told he needed the cover in 2010 
when he already had death in service benefit with his employer. He also felt that Scottish 
Widows should have informed him of the requirement for financial advice sooner, and it was 
unfair to require it. He requested that Scottish Widows amend his policy for him without 
additional cost or advice.
Scottish Widows disagreed. It said it had never provided advice about the policy and had 
chosen to notify customers of the need for financial advice when it became relevant  at the 
point the customer enquired. It did however offer Mr K £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator explained 
Scottish Widows had provided the policy on a non-advised basis, so couldnt be held 
responsible for any advice given. They also highlighted that death in service does not 
generally form an adequate replacement for life cover. They explained that Scottish Widows 
had informed Mr K of the need for advice when it became relevant to him. So, they didnt 
think Scottish Widows had acted unfairly.
Mr K accepted that Scottish Widows had followed his instruction to set up the policy. But still 
felt Scottish Widows should have informed him sooner of the requirement for financial 
advice. He said that had it informed him in 2018 this would have prompted him to act sooner. 
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator has explained that the policy wasnt recommended by Scottish Widows, that 
it wasnt responsible for any advice given to Mr K about the sale and that it acted on an 
execution only basis. Mr K has accepted this aspect of the complaint, so I wont go over it 
again in my decision.
Scottish Widows is allowed to make the decision to require financial advice for any policy 
amendments. And this measure appears to be in place to ensure that any changes to a life 
policy such as Mr Ks are best suited to the customers needs.
The key consideration then is whether Scottish Widows should have informed Mr K sooner 
about the requirement for financial advice.
I think Scottish Widows acted reasonably in the circumstances by notifying Mr K at the point 
he sought to alter his policy that the requirement was in place. This is because it is the only 
point in which this information became relevant.
Mr K has suggested that had Scottish Widows prompted him in 2018 when its requirements 
changed it would have made him act sooner  but at that point there wouldve still been the 
same requirement for financial advice. And Mr Ks own testimony is that due to personal 
circumstances he hadnt been able to organise his policy until he contacted Scottish Widows 
in 2021, so Im not persuaded he would have acted any sooner to amend or cancel his 
policy. 
Im not persuaded that being informed any earlier wouldve led to a different result for Mr K, 
and for the reasons already explained Im satisfied that Scottish Widows decision to notify 
customers upon request was a reasonable choice to make in the circumstances.
Mr K has now suggested he wishes to cancel his policy  if he still wants to do this, he can 
contact Scottish Widows directly to arrange its cancellation. Scottish Widows has previously 
already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint. Mr K should contact Scottish 
Widows directly if he now wishes to accept this, and the offer has not already been paid.
Im satisfied that Scottish Widows acted reasonably in this instance. As I think Scottish 
Widows acted fairly, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think Scottish Widows Limited needs 
to do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman