DRN-3177825
The complaint
Mr L complains PayrNet Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent released money 
held in the account back to him.
 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by PayrNet Limited.
 
What happened
 In April 2021, Pockit blocked Mr Ls account whilst they carried out a review. As part of its 
review Pockit asked Mr L to provide some information about him and how he was using his 
account. 
Mr L sent Pockit copies of his driving licence, birth certificate, his rental agreement and 
screen shots from DWP showing the money in his account were his benefit payments. But 
Mr Ls account remained blocked and Pockit told Mr L that it wouldnt be able to provide him 
with a timeframe for when it would be able to complete its review. Meanwhile Mr L was left 
without access to the money in his account. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators asked Mr L for some more information about the money paid into his account. 
Mr L sent the investigator a letter from DWP which confirmed Mr L had been paid just over 
£2,700 in April 2021. And he sent some screen shots from June 2020 onwards showing his 
regular DWP benefit payments. 
The investigator sent the information to Pockit and asked them to provide an explanation 
why it wasnt releasing Mr Ls funds. The investigator told Pockit that Mr Ls mental health 
was suffering and that he was finding things very difficult because he couldnt access his 
funds. But Pockit didnt respond. 
The investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said Pockit hadnt provided sufficient evidence 
to show why the account was still blocked, and Mr Ls funds hadnt been released. He 
thought Pockit should release Mr Ls balance, along with 8% interest and pay Mr L £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Pockit apologised for not providing us with any information and explained this was due to a 
back log of work. And sent us some information. The investigator looked at the information 
and sent Pockit the DWP paperwork Mr L had provided. He asked Pockit if it had any further 
concerns with Mr Ls entitlement to the funds in his account. And what it intended to do with 
the money in Mr Ls account and whether it had contacted DWP. But Pockit didnt respond. 
So, based on the evidence hed seen, the investigator said he was continuing to uphold the 
complaint as hed previously set out to Pockit. 
Mr L agreed. Pockit didnt respond to what the investigator had said. And to date Mr L is still 
waiting for his funds to be returned. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Pockit has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre 
also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That 
sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while 
they carry out a review.
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, including how Mr L was operating his 
account, Im satisfied that they were complying with these obligations when they blocked 
Mr Ls account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Ls account 
also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I 
cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ls account. 
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Ls account in April 2021.  
Mr L provided them with information and more recently our investigator has sent copies of 
Mr Ls documents to Pockit in an attempt to move things forward. So, all the information 
Pockit had requested has been provided, yet Mr Ls account remains blocked. And hes still 
waiting for access to his benefit money with no further contact from Pockit.
Pockit hasnt offered much in the way of any explanation for why its review of Mr Ls account 
has taken as long as it has. And it hasnt provided any evidence to satisfy me that its actions 
are reasonable in the circumstances, in light of the information Mr L (and the investigator) 
has provided regarding the funds in Mr Ls account. 
I accept that Pockit are entitled to review Mr Ls account. But I dont consider the account to 
be blocked for nearly eight months without any further contact or explanation to be 
reasonable. And whilst Pockit isnt obliged to tell Mr L why it is reviewing his account and 
holding onto the money in it, I would expect them to satisfy our service of its actions. They 
havent done that despite our investigator requesting information from them.
Mr L has sent our service the documentation he sent to Pockit. And hes sent us copies of 
screen shots and letters hes received from DWP as evidence hes entitled to the money 
paid into his account.  Based on what Pockit initially asked Mr L Im satisfied that Mr L has 
answered Pockits questions regarding his identify, address and his entitlement to the funds 
in his account. If Pockit needed any further information Id expect them to be more proactive 
and contact Mr L with the details of the information still outstanding. But it hasnt asked for 
anything further or told Mr L what its doing with the money in his account. So, Ive not seen 
any additional evidence to satisfy me the actions Pockit are currently taking in relation to the 
review of Mr Ls account is reasonable. 
I can see that Mr L sent several emails to Pockit over a number of months chasing the 
release of the money. He made Pockit aware that he was struggling financially, and his 
mental health was suffering. And its clear from his emails that Mr L was upset. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest Pockit reached out to him or acknowledged he maybe in a 
vulnerable position. So, overall,  Im not satisfied that Pockit has treated Mr L fairly and 
reasonably. Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think Pockit should give Mr L access to the money 
paid into his account and pay 8% simple interest on this amount.  Pockit should pay the 
interest from the date they reasonably released the money , which I find to be the date Mr L 
supplied the information to them up to the date they refund it to him. 
Ive also thought about the trouble and upset this situation caused Mr L. And I consider £300 
compensation fairly recognises the trouble and upset caused to him. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. To put things right PayrNet Limited 
should:
Pay Mr L £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review
Refund Mr Ls balance along with 8% interest simple per year from 27 April 2021 until 
the date of refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman