The complaint
Mr F says American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. I issued a provisional 
decision for the complaint on 19 May 2020. I've summarised my provisional findings below:
Mr F had provided evidence to show that when he took out the policy he was
employed, but carried out additionaI work on a self-employed basis. So I thought it
would've been difficult for him to make a successful unemployment claim on the
policy. Even if Mr F had lost his employed job, I thought it was likely he would've
continued to work on a self-employed basis. And that would've made it difficult for
him to claim on the policy for unemployment benefit.
I didn't think AmEx made it clear to Mr F that he was unlikely to be able to make a
successful unemployment claim on the policy.
And I didn't think Mr F would've bought the PPI if he'd had enough information about
the policy. So I concluded the complaint should be upheld.
Mr F and AmEx didn't make any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mr F's case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AmEx should put Mr F in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AmEx should find out how much Mr F would have owed when he closed his credit
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
DRN-1933001So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AmEx should then refund the difference between what Mr F owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AmEx can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. AmEx should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr F would have
owed when he closed the account - from when he closed it until he gets the refund.
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AmEx works out what Mr F would have owed each month without PPI  Mr
F paid more than enough to clear his balance, AmEx should also pay simple interest
on the extra Mr F paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr
F wouldve owed AmEx something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8%
a year.
D. AmEx should tell Mr F what its done to work out A, B and C.
If AmEx has already repaid any commission amount to Mr F that relates to this PPI sale, that 
sum can be deducted by AmEx from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AmEx to take off tax from this interest. AmEx must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct American Express Services Europe 
Limited to pay compensation to Mr F in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman