DRN-2579426
The complaint
Mr H complains about Society of Lloyds (SOL) and the way it handled a legal expenses 
insurance claim. He says delay has caused him detriment.
References to SOL includes agents that handled the claim.
What happened
The background facts are known to the parties, so I wont rehearse them here. In summary 
though Mr H was involved in a boundary dispute with his neighbour and sought legal 
expenses cover. SOL appointed solicitors to act and authorisation for a surveyors report 
was requested at the end of July 2019.
In October 2019 Mr H complained to SOL about delays and that effectively, from his 
perspective, nothing was happening. SOL investigated the complaint and issued its final 
response on 9 December 2019. It accepted there had been some delay and offered £100 
compensation. But SOL confirmed that the claim remained covered and it would liaise with 
the appointed solicitors. 
Mr Hs concern was that his case was unwinnable because of the delay as during that short 
period his property managing agent had potentially trespassed on the neighbours land. But 
SOL reiterated the claim would progress and authority and funding for a surveyors report 
was in place. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think SOL needed to do any 
more to put things right. He explained that ultimately the claim was still under consideration 
and the outcome, success or otherwise, was unknown and not a part of his consideration. 
Additionally, the issue with Mr Hs agent potentially trespassing on the neighbours land 
wasnt SOLs responsibility or a consequence of anything SOL did or didnt do. He thought 
£100 was a fair amount.
Mr H disagreed. He believes had the delay not occurred the boundary dispute would be 
settled and £100 doesnt cover the unnecessary stress hes experienced.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is to clarify that the claim is still in progress as the underlying legal dispute 
continues. The issue for me to decide concerns the issues raised in the initial complaint 
about the handling of the claim and the impact of delay up to 9 December 2019. As the 
underlying dispute is ongoing and the claim proceeds on that basis, issues around the 
ultimate outcome cant be determined until that point is reached and Mr H can decide 
whether hes unhappy about that outcome.
So, in looking at the delay issues in this complaint Im mindful of SOLs duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Delay is accepted but, in my assessment, I conclude the impact on Mr H 
was limited. The delay appears to have concerned around two months between the claim 
being submitted and cover being confirmed by SOL to the solicitors. But it has not, for this 
complaint, been shown to have impacted the outcome of the claim as its still ongoing. I 
accept Mr H has been caused inconvenience because of the delay in so far as hes had to 
chase information and progress. But the overall impact in my determination is low and £100 
reflects fair redress.
My final decision
I am aware that Society of Lloyds has made an offer to pay £100. I conclude that such an 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Society of Lloyds 
should pay Mr H £100 (if it hasnt done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman