DRN-2748482
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly lent money to him.
What happened
Mr W says he applied for and was given a Nationwide loan for over £24,000 in 2017. He 
says that lending was irresponsible and the loan unaffordable due to his gambling problem. 
Mr W says appropriate checks couldnt have been carried out and he had other lending at 
the time. He would like the loan refunded and says Nationwides actions have caused health 
issues. He also says he entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in 2018.
Nationwide says it carried out appropriate and reasonable checks on Mr Ws online 
application. It says he had an income of £2,000 a month and very limited outgoings. And Mr 
W had previous loans that were repaid. Nationwide says it doesnt look at account 
statements and cant say if a transaction is a gambling transaction. It says gambling is not 
illegal and that Mr W missed a loan repayment some 18 months after the loan was taken out 
which suggests at the time it was affordable.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the loan application had been correctly assessed and Mr W didnt have any adverse 
information on his credit file at the time. He also thought Mr W had repaid previous 
borrowing and that he hadnt told Nationwide about any gambling issues.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and in summary says he didnt need a loan at the time as he 
didnt have any debts to consolidate. He says Nationwide should have checked his account 
statements and would have seen how much he spent on gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate how strongly Mr W feels about this complaint and that he will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I make clear to Mr W that we are not Nationwides regulator. So, its not our role to tell it or 
any other lender how it deals with the issue of gambling. Mr W knows that gambling is a 
legal activity.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any loan application. I 
have looked carefully at Nationwides records and Im satisfied it did carry out such checks. 
Im satisfied Nationwide checked Mr Ws income and that he didnt have any significant 
outgoings or any adverse information on his credit file. I also think that Mr W repaid the loan 
for about 18 months after the loan was first taken out, which I think again provides evidence 
the loan was affordable at the time. I dont think there can be any doubt that the loan was 
affordable on the face of it and the only real issue was the impact of the gambling on the 
affordability.
I appreciate Mr W says Nationwide ought to have checked his account statements. But Im 
satisfied Nationwide did carry out proportionate and reasonable checks on the application. 
And that it would not be practicable or proportionate to check account statements on every 
loan application, as not every loan applicant would be a Nationwide customer and gambling 
transactions are not always obvious. I also think that Nationwide would not have known 
about the extent of Mr W gambling issues unless he told it about them. If that had been the 
case and Nationwide told about such gambling issues, then any future lending decisions 
should have been looked at differently. But that isnt the case here as Mr W didnt tell 
Nationwide he had a gambling problem.
I appreciate Mr W says he didnt need a loan, but I dont think that is relevant or that 
Nationwide could have known that. And it was Mr Ws decision to take out the loan and his 
decision how to spend that money. I find it would be unfair to order Nationwide to refund the 
loan even if I thought it decision to lend irresponsible as Mr W had the benefit of that money.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide carried out appropriate checks on Mr W loan application 
and I hope he appreciates why I cant fairly comment on the wider gambling issues he 
raises. No doubt Nationwide will consider itself how it deals with this sort of problem in the 
future and how it considers the impact of gambling on credit and loan applications.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman