DRN-1610362
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in November 
1995 with a store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD 
(AXA). This is because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility 
for PPI complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, 
nothing else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mr J says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because Mr J recalls taking out the policy. And in order to get the cover Mr 
J had to tick a box for it. Had Mr J not wanted the PPI he could have not ticked that box. And 
there is nothing on the application form that suggests that Mr J had to have the cover to get 
the credit. And Mr J has signed the application which denotes his agreement with its 
contents.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information he needed so he could decide if it was right for 
him.
The information AXA gave Mr J about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances at the time it seems that he was 
eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mr J would have benefitted from the cover. I say this because Mr J told 
us that whilst he had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six months. And Mr 
J told us that he had no other means he could have relied on if he was off for the reason of 
long term illness. Having the PPI would mean the policy would pay out for longer than his 
employer would pay him sick pay at his full rate of pay. And it would have helped if Mr J lost 
his job. So I think the PPI could be useful for him.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr J off taking out the cover.my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman