DRN-4124785
The complaint
Mr R  on behalf of a company Ill refer to as 1  complains about the way Zurich Insurance 
PLC handled and settled a claim under a Real Estate Insurance policy. 
What happened
1 is the freeholder of a building that contains flats which is insured by Zurich. Mr R has 
brought a complaint to our Service on behalf of 1, so for ease of reading Ill refer to him 
throughout. 
The basement flat of the building suffered flood damage in 2021 due to localised flooding. 
Zurich accepted the claim and cash settled it. The leaseholder of the flat where damage 
occurred was put into alternative accommodation. 
Mr R says all payments in respect of the claim were paid to the leaseholder directly. And 
these should have been paid to 1s account as the freeholder of the building and the insured, 
communication was poor as Mr R wasnt kept updated with the progress of the claim or 
consulted on repairs, and the alternative accommodation costs were overstated. So, he 
complained to Zurich. 
Zurich responded in October 2022 and January 2023. It said, broadly, that the leaseholder 
owned the flat, had paid premiums towards the policy, and therefore was a beneficiary of the 
contract of insurance. So, it didnt make an error when settling the claim directly with the 
leaseholder. It offered to pay Mr R  on behalf of 1  £700 compensation in total as it 
accepted Mr R should have been kept better updated during the claim. 
Zurich says loss adjusters handled the claim who provided their own costings along with 
scope of works from two suppliers, and it settled what was considered a valid claim in line 
with the policy. It also says alternative accommodation costs for the leaseholder could be 
considered high, but this was because the risk address is situated in an expensive area. And 
its loss adjuster considered the leaseholders alternative accommodation option to be 
reasonable  and proof these costs were incurred were assessed and considered correct 
and reasonable. Mr R remained unhappy with the way Zurich handled and settled the claim. 
So, he brought a complaint to our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She wasnt persuaded Zurich 
failed to handle and settle the claim fairly  or directly with the leaseholder as they were a 
beneficiary of the contract of insurance. And while Zurich ought to have provided better 
customer service to Mr R, she thought £700 compensation was fair. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1 is the freeholder of the building and named as the insured within the policy schedule. But 
the flat in question that was damaged by the insured event was owned by a leaseholder. The 
leaseholder of the flat was contributing towards paying the insurance premiums and had an 
insurable interest here because of their ownership of the flat. Therefore, Im not satisfied it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Zurich to correspond with, or settle the leaseholders claim to 
indemnify them directly, because they had an insurable interest in the property. 
I accept Mr R, acting on behalf of 1, as the freeholder of the building also had an interest in 
the claim. And Zurich accept here it should have taken steps to provide a higher level of 
customer service by keeping Mr R up to date with the progress of the claim. 
That said, Im not satisfied Zurich  by keeping Mr R better informed  would have made a 
material difference to the overall outcome of the claim here. I say this because Zurichs 
liability was settling the claim to indemnify the leaseholder with the insurable interest in the 
property following a valid claim. 
The claim was validated by a loss adjuster and costings for damage to the buildings were 
based on a scope of works from two different suppliers. I think its safe to conclude these 
suppliers had no relationship with the leaseholder, as I havent seen any evidence to the 
contrary. Its ultimately for an insurer to validate a claim and ensure costs are reasonable, 
and Im not satisfied the evidence supports Zurich failed to take reasonable steps to validate 
the claim for the buildings. 
Alternative accommodation was said to have been required and this is a policy benefit. Mr R 
says the amount paid in this respect was too high. The leaseholder sourced the alternative 
accommodation and Zurich say this was reviewed by loss adjusters who deemed the costs 
for a short-term rental agreement within an expensive area to be reasonable. It says no 
further options were considered here because it found the leaseholders alternative 
accommodation request reasonable. 
As mentioned above, its for an insurer to validate a claim for alternative accommodation. 
Had Zurich had concerns over the cost of alternative accommodation, it would have been for 
Zurich to approach the leaseholder to source other options it considered was appropriately 
like-for-like, and within the local area of the risk address. In this case, Zurich relied on the 
opinion of the loss adjuster to conclude the alternative accommodation aspect of the claim. 
Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to take these steps. 
Therefore, in concluding, Im not satisfied Zurich failed to validate the claim reasonably to 
indemnify the leaseholder who had an insurable interest in the property damaged by the 
insured event. I do agree Zurich ought to have handled matters better at times, and with a 
higher level of customer service  such as keeping Mr R better informed. But I think it took 
reasonable steps to recognise this when paying Mr R  on behalf of 1  £700 compensation 
in total. Therefore, I dont require Zurich to take any further action here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R  on behalf of 1. But it ends 
what we  in attempting to resolve its dispute with Zurich  can do in respect of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 1 to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman