DRN-3356820
The complaint
Mr R complains Salary Finance Limited (SF) gave him an incorrect settlement figure for his 
personal loan, leading to negative information being recorded on his credit file.  
Mr R originally took out his loan with another company, but SF are now responsible for it, so 
for simplicity Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr R was in financial difficulties when on 13 January 2020 he asked SF for a settlement 
figure for his loan. He received this on 23 January 2020  and the figure was £1,609.93 with 
this applying up to 30 January 2020  after which time itd need to be recalculated to take 
into account extra interest thatd accrued. Mr R paid this amount on 23 January 2020.
SF then told Mr R on 31 January 2020 hed been sent an incorrect settlement figure, and 
actually the correct settlement figure was £10,349.20. And when SF said this is what Mr R 
needed to pay, he said they really should honour the original settlement figure they gave 
him. When they didnt, Mr R complained as he said he was experiencing quite severe 
financial difficulties, and this caused him more problems.
SF replied to Mr Rs complaint, setting out a timeline of events. They explained the original 
loan had been granted for £15,000 over a term of five years which they expected to be 
returned in full. They said Mr R had made payments for 15 months before the settlement 
figure payment, which came out to £4,722.90. They said as interest is added daily, the 
outstanding amount at this time was £11,879. SF said they could see Mr R had logged into 
his account on several occasions between 13 and 31 January 2020, when the settlement 
figure was generated. So, they said it can therefore be assumed Mr R was aware of the 
outstanding balance of his account, as the figure is displayed on a dashboard.
They accepted theyd sent an incorrect settlement figure, and this was due to human error. 
But they said accepting any settlement lower than the balance owed due to Mr Rs financial 
difficulties would require a full assessment of his circumstances, plus potentially entering into 
a formal debt plan. Overall, they didnt agree to accept Mr Rs payment of £1,609.93 in 
settlement of the debt.
Unhappy with this Mr R asked us to look into things, also explaining he felt the outcome of 
the complaint had been pre-judged, and no fair investigation took place. Im aware there 
were some discussions on whether we could consider this complaint. And, ultimately, it was 
determined we could.
During this time, SF made an offer to Mr R of paying off just the balance of the debt, 
meaning he wouldnt pay interest, plus the removal of any negative markers.
One of our Investigators considered things and felt SFs offer of Mr R just paying the amount 
he borrowed back, plus removal of the negative credit file information was fair. But, he also 
felt SF should pay Mr R £250 compensation for the stress theyd caused him.
Mr R replied, and said itd be wrong of him to say he was happy with the outcome, as he 
didnt think the compensation properly reflected the stress hed been caused by SF. He also 
explained a review of his employment is taking place, and the negative credit file markers 
could have an impact on him for that.
SF didnt reply by the deadline our Investigator set, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain we dont require financial businesses like SF to make incorrect 
information true. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to require SF to accept the 
payment Mr R made towards his loan as a full and final settlement. SF have said Mr R 
logged into the portal during this time, and Mr R himself has confirmed this is correct and he 
was aware of the balance. Hes said he was surprised at SFs offer. I can understand why 
hed have accepted it, but it wouldnt be fair of me to require SF to effectively write off the 
loan, when the settlement offer initially received was wrong.
SF have made an offer regarding the loan itself  saying theyll only ask Mr R to repay the 
amount he borrowed rather than any interest  along with removing any negative reporting to 
his credit file.
I also think this offer is fair for Mr R. Its often the redress we require financial businesses to 
pay where weve found theyve lent irresponsibly. And, in effect, means Mr R only has to pay 
back to SF what he borrowed in the first place. As hes had the benefit of those funds, thats 
a fair outcome.
Our Investigator also awarded £250 compensation  saying SF caused the delays in his 
complaint being resolved, and in these offers being made to him.
Its clear an error was made when Mr R asked for the settlement figure. And based on that 
incorrect information Mr R made a number of other commitments regarding his finances 
which were then impacted by him being told this loan hadnt been settled.
As a result of that misinformation, Mr R has been caused distress because hed have taken 
different actions regarding his finances if hed been told the right information. Hes also now 
explained as a result of the negative information being reported to the credit reference 
agencies its causing him concerns about his employment.
I can understand why these issues would be causing Mr R distress. And I can see our 
Investigator recommended £250 to reflect this. Ive noted Mr R doesnt agree with this but 
bearing in mind the interest on his debt no longer needs to be paid, and all the negative 
information is being removed, I think its fair.
Putting things right
I require Salary Finance Limited to:
Remove any interest applied to the debt, leaving only the principle balance owing
Remove any negative information from Mr Rs credit file since January 2020
Pay Mr R £250 compensationMy final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Salary Finance 
Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman