DRN-4111789
The complaint
Mr H complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (VM) have not facilitated him 
transferring his pension fund to a different provider.  
When Mr H contacted VM it was about both his and his wifes pension plans. But Ive omitted 
references to any plan held with VM by Mr Hs wife as the complaints she has made about 
her contact with VM are being dealt with separately.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an overview of 
relevant key events here. 
Mr H had a personal pension plan (PPP) with VM. Mr H phoned VM at the end of October 
2021 to discuss his PPP but was unable to get through. He made a complaint to VM. 
Mr H emailed VM on 19 November 2021 as he hadnt received a response to the complaint 
he made in October 2021. He said he wanted to transfer his pension fund from VM to a 
different pension provider and asked for transfer paperwork to be sent to him. Mr H again 
contacted VM on 24 and 30 November 2021 chasing the transfer paperwork. 
Mr H then phoned VM on 9 December 2021. He explained that hed already asked for 
transfer paperwork by post, but these hadnt been received. The VM adviser apologised and 
told him the transfer paperwork would be sent out. VM posted the pension transfer forms to 
Mr H on the same day. These included a Transfer Out Request form and a Transfer Out 
Warranty.  
Mr H phoned VM on 2 February 2022 but its computer systems werent working as 
maintenance work was being carried out. 
Mr H complained to this Service in February 2022. He raised a number of complaint points, 
and those relevant to the transfer of his PPP to another provider are listed below. Mr H said 
that: 
   
VMs operating systems were down on one occasion when he phoned. 
VM provided conflicting information about whether Mr H should send completed 
transfer forms to VM or the new provider.  
VM wouldnt accept email requests to transfer funds as a wet signature was needed.
VM couldnt guarantee how long the transfer process would take by post, and the 
value of the fund wouldnt be known when a request was made. 
VM didnt provide cash accounts to hold funds while the transfer took place.
Mr H said his pension funds devalued considerably while he waited for VM to contact 
him and he lost out on a transfer incentive from another pension provider.
Other complaint points Mr H brought to this Service in February 2022, about the difficulties 
he had trying to contact VM to arrange an internal fund switch, have been dealt with 
separately.
The complaint points, listed above, that Mr H brought to this Service in February 2022 about 
the external transfer process hadnt previously been raised with VM. This meant VM hadnt 
been given an opportunity to respond to these points. So Mr H was asked to raise his 
complaint about the external transfer process with VM before this Service would look into the 
various complaint points raised. 
So Mr H contacted VM in January 2023. He raised several complaint points and posed 
several questions, which were: 
 
VM should have allowed pension transfers to be made using the Origo system. 
VM hadnt responded to a question about whether it accepted signed letters giving 
instructions to transfer funds.   
Mr H said VM should follow his instructions  he didnt want to rely on the postal 
system  about how his pension funds should be transferred. 
Mr H asked whether VM would withhold funds indefinitely if the transfer paperwork 
wasnt completed. 
Mr H wanted VM to allow more than one transfer out of his pension fund. 
Mr H asked whether the fund transfer value was calculated on the day instructions 
were received by VM or a date in the future. 
Mr H thought the plan terms, specifically section 16b, showed his funds should be 
held in a cash account once he provided transfer instructions. 
VM responded to Mr Hs complaint in early March 2023. It said: 
It was not registered for electronic transfer services, although this may change in the 
future. 
In order to transfer his pension Mr H needed to complete a Request for Transfer of 
Benefits form and the new provider needed to complete a Transfer out Warranty 
form. VM said these forms had previously been sent to Mr H. 
If the transfer paperwork was not completed funds would be held by VM indefinitely.
With regard to the calculation of the fund transfer value VM pointed Mr H to the policy 
term that said Once we receive notification from your new pension provider, and 
both parties have all the information needed, well move your pension to them using 
the unit price on the transfer day.
Following contact from Mr H, VM provided a second complaint response letter. This said:  
Clause 16b of Mr Hs pension terms enabled VM to transfer Mr Hs pension to 
another HMRC registered scheme in certain limited circumstances. It said the clause 
didnt enable VM to transfer the pension funds themselves. The clause could be 
relied on in the event that VM intended to cease providing the VM stakeholder 
pension, or pensions in general.
Mr H was in regular contact with this Service and said: 
Since he raised his complaint, his PPP has suffered a paper loss of around £30,000. 
He wanted to transfer his pension funds using the Origo system as this takes less 
time. 
The PPP terms indicated the pension funds should have been transferred, and he 
had a right to choose the method of transfer. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said VM did not need to complete a 
transfer based on the signed letter submitted by Mr H, as it had a duty to safeguard its customers from scams and fraud. She said it was industry wide practice to complete and 
return certain forms, so that businesses could conduct necessary checks before the transfer 
was carried out. Our Investigator said VM had made it clear Mr H could have transferred his 
pension, free of charge, at any time. She also thought VM had explained the transfer 
process clearly. 
Our Investigator said VM cant be compelled to use a particular electronic transfer system, 
and that Mr Hs pension will remain invested until the day of transfer. She also said that term 
16b of the plan terms and conditions, which Mr H thought showed that VM should protect the 
value of his pension while the transfer was ongoing, was not relevant in these 
circumstances. 
Mr H didnt agree with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 August 2023 and said that while I wanted to expand on 
the reasoning provided by our Investigator, I intended to come to the same conclusion and 
not uphold Mr Hs complaint. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
VM responded and said it had nothing further to add at that point. 
Mr H responded to my provisional decision and didnt agree with the outcome. He made a 
number of comments. In summary, these are: 
Mr H provided a copy of PPP terms which were different to those I relied on in my 
provisional decision.
Mr H felt that VMs terms show it operates a cash account for consumers funds.
Mr H forwarded a letter hed recently received from VM which said that VM would 
accept written instructions to transfer a pension to another provider. 
Mr H also raised a number of new complaint points. 
I contacted VM and asked why the terms Mr H recently forwarded to this Service were 
different to the terms I relied on in my provisional decision. VM responded and said the 
terms that say it will sell units when it is ready to complete the transfer reflect current terms, 
and were the terms in effect when Mr H indicated his desire to transfer and requested 
transfer forms in 2021. VM went on to say that the terms provided by Mr H, when he 
responded to my provisional decision, were much older terms that date from when products 
were sold under a different Virgin brand and have since been superseded many times. 
I also told VM that Mr H said he received a letter from VM, dated 25 August 2023, which he 
said told him that VM would, in fact, accept written instructions to transfer a pension to 
another provider. 
VM responded and said the letter in question stated that VM does accept written and signed 
instructions. However it stated this does not mean its position has changed  it still needs all 
the required information, permissions and declarations submitted in writing. 
VM went on to say it provides transfer forms as they are the easiest, most efficient and 
robust means of seeking to transfer and are far more likely to achieve the customers 
transfer than any attempts at making the same via a white paper request. 
Having said that, VM said that if a consumer provided all the required information, 
permissions and declarations it and the other provider needed via a signed, white paper 
postal request, it would not decline that instruction for the sake of having the same 
information transposed to a form. It said Mr Hs requests had so far fell far short of being acceptable and of providing the information and declarations it needed to start sharing his 
personal information with another provider, and of the information the other provider would 
need to assess the transfer and seek to accept it. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has been in contact with this Service numerous times and has provided a great deal of 
testimony in relation to his complaint about the difficulties he said he has had trying to 
transfer his PPP to another provider. I want to assure Mr H that I have read everything 
submitted by him, even if I dont refer to each and every point made. Instead Ill only address 
what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome here, and this reflects 
the informal nature of this Service. 
Mr H also raised a number of new complaint points against VM when he responded to my 
provisional decision. However I am not going to extend the scope of this decision and deal 
with all new issues raised. But this wont disadvantage Mr H, as any new complaint points 
can be raised with us separately as and when Mr H goes through the usual complaints 
process with VM and receives a final response from it. Our Investigator will continue to 
communicate with Mr H about these new matters.  
The transfer process
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he says he wants to transfer his pension funds from VM 
to another provider and thinks VM should have actioned his transfer request some time ago. 
The issue here is that VM has said Mr H needs to complete and submit the relevant transfer 
paperwork before it will start the process of transferring his funds to another provider. Mr H, 
however, thinks VM should accept a signed, written instruction from him without the need for 
him to complete transfer paperwork. Mr H also thinks VM has provided contradictory 
information about what steps he needs to take to start the transfer process. 
Ive first of all looked at what Mr H has said in relation to VM not clearly outlining how 
external transfers are processed in its terms and conditions. Mr H thinks there should be a 
term specifically outlining how the transfer will happen. However, broadly speaking, terms 
and conditions usually provide an outline of the contractual agreement between both parties. 
They often wont contain detailed information about how a business operates on a day to 
day basis. One of the reasons for this might well be because it allows operational changes to 
be made without it being necessary to alter the contractual agreement between both parties. 
So Im satisfied that VM hasnt acted unfairly by not outlining in its terms the particulars of 
what steps need to be taken in order for funds to be transferred to another provider. I think 
its reasonable for VM to outline the transfer process outside of the plan terms.  
Having said that, I would expect VM to let Mr H know what steps he needs to take to transfer 
his funds, assuming he asked VM for this information. So Ive looked at whether the process 
was clearly explained to Mr H and whether he was provided with the tools needed to transfer 
his funds to a new provider. 
I can see that Mr H first requested the relevant pension transfer paperwork by email several 
times in November 2021. He then rang and spoke to a VM advisor on 9 December 2021 and 
requested the paperwork again. The VM adviser said he would arrange for the paperwork to be sent and I can see that a letter, with the transfer paperwork attached, was sent to Mr H on 
9 December 2021. 
I know that Mr H has said he didnt get the transfer paperwork until around March 2023. 
However, the approach this Service takes is that we look at when VM sent the papers, not 
when, or if, they might have been received. This is because VM arent responsible for what 
happens to mail once it is posted  it has no control over whether a letter sent is actually 
delivered. But, in any event, I note that Mr H told a VM advisor during a call on 5 February 
2022 that he had already received the transfer out forms. 
So Im satisfied VM sent the transfer out forms to Mr H in December 2021 and that Mr H told 
a VM adviser in February 2022 that he had received them. Its not clear exactly when Mr H 
received the transfer forms but as they were sent on 9 December 2021, I think its fair to say 
he most likely received them at some stage in December 2021. So Im satisfied Mr H was in 
possession of the necessary transfer paperwork in December 2021. 
I do think that VM failed to action several requests for the transfer paperwork that Mr H made 
by email in November 2021. However, I dont think this caused him any detriment. I say this 
because although Mr H has repeatedly said he wants to transfer his pension funds, he hasnt 
actually completed and submitted the transfer paperwork. So the short delay in sending the 
paperwork to him has not resulted in a delay in having a transfer request processed. 
Mr H feels he lost out on an incentive offered by a different provider, if he transferred his 
funds by a certain date in 2022. But Mr H hasnt yet completed the correct paperwork in 
order to transfer his pension funds. So I cant fairly say that he lost out on this incentive 
because of any action, or inaction, on the part of VM. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter dated 9 December 2021 and the transfer forms that were 
attached. Im satisfied that the letter and forms were clearly worded enough that a 
reasonable consumer, and thats the appropriate test here, would understand the steps they 
needed to take to start the process of transferring pension funds to another provider. 
Mr H told this Service that he was provided with contradictory information during phone calls 
with VM advisers about whether to send the transfer paperwork to VM or to the new 
provider. But, having listened to the various calls Mr H made to VM between November 2021 
and February 2022, Ive not heard that contradictory information was provided. During calls 
made between November 2021 and February 2022 the same essential message was given 
to Mr H by VM advisers, which was that Mr H needed to complete transfer forms and also 
that he needed to contact both VM and the new provider about the transfer. I know that Mr H 
thought that he was provided with contradictory information during a call with a VM adviser in 
January 2022, but that conversation was in relation to transferring a different product.  
Ive already said that Im satisfied Mr H most likely received the transfer papers in December 
2021. So even if he thought he been given contradictory information by VM advisers when 
he called  and I dont agree that was the case  he was already in possession of the 
transfer papers and these clearly told him what steps needed to be taken to start the transfer 
process. 
Mr H also told this Service that when he spoke to a VM adviser he was told that VM would 
accept written, signed instructions to start the transfer process. Mr H said he thinks VM 
should consider a letter signed by him to be sufficient authorisation to transfer his pension to 
a new provider. So Mr H doesnt think he should have to complete the transfer paperwork 
sent to him by VM in December 2021. This point was raised again by Mr H when he responded to my provisional decision and said 
hed received a letter in August 2023 from VM stating that it would, in fact, accept written 
instructions to begin the process of transferring Mr Hs pension to another provider. 
When I issued my provisional decision, I said I couldnt see any evidence to suggest Mr H 
was told that a signed letter is enough to start the transfer process. I can see that he was 
told during the 5 February 2022 call with a VM adviser that a wet signature was needed, 
but this was in response to Mr H asking why his pension funds couldnt be transferred 
electronically. He was not told at that point that a signed letter was sufficient authorisation 
and had been told earlier in the same call that it was necessary to complete the relevant 
transfer paperwork. So, up to the point Mr H responded to my provisional decision, I couldnt 
see that Mr H was told that a signed letter was enough to start the transfer process. 
The fact that Mr H has provided a very recent letter  dated from August 2023  from VM 
stating that it will accept written instructions does not change my finding that Mr H hadnt 
been told this previously. The issue here is that its for VM to decide how it accepts transfer 
instructions. VM will have set up its transfer process so that it can carry out security checks 
before it begins the process of transferring a pension. This offers protection to both VM and 
its consumers. And our Service wont interfere with reasonable security measures taken by 
VM. 
So Im satisfied that its reasonable for VM to be the party that decides whether a signed 
letter submitted instead of the transfer forms contains enough information, permissions and 
declarations for it to be considered a valid request to transfer. VM has said that Mr Hs 
written requests had so far fallen far short of being acceptable and of providing the 
information and declarations it needed to start sharing his personal information with another 
provider, and of the information the other provider would need to assess the transfer and 
seek to accept it. As I said, its for VM to decide how it accepts transfer instructions and I 
wont interfere with this. 
Transferring funds electronically 
Mr H has said that once he decides to transfer his pension funds, he wants the transfer to be 
carried out as quickly as possible so that the value of the funds dont fluctuate while the 
transfer is being processed. He wants VM to use a particular electronic transfer system to 
facilitate this. But VM doesnt use this system and has made this clear to Mr H. Whether VM 
chooses to use this system or not is a commercial decision VM is entitled to make and which 
this Service wont interfere with. I can appreciate why Mr H would want any transfer 
completed quickly  he doesnt want funds to devalue during the transfer process. But its 
the case that funds could also increase in value since investments fluctuate. Regardless, VM 
simply doesnt use this system and as I said, we wont interfere with that commercial 
decision. 
Use of cash accounts during the transfer process
VM told Mr H and this Service that it does not move consumers funds into cash accounts 
once an instruction to transfer funds has been received. But Mr H thinks that cash accounts 
should be utilised by VM at the start of the transfer process, as he feels his money should be 
protected from any market changes from the point in time that he instructs VM. Mr H told this 
Service that his PPP has decreased in value quite significantly since he moved it to a Bonds 
and Gilts fund in November 2021 and January 2022. He thinks this decrease wouldnt have 
happened if VM had moved his funds to a cash account back in November 2021, when he 
first told it of his intention to transfer his funds to another provider. So Mr H thinks VM should 
compensate him for the amount hes lost.  Mr H pointed to a clause in the PPP terms and conditions which he believes indicates that a 
cash account will be used by VM once a decision is made to transfer pension funds. But Ive 
read the term in question and Im satisfied it doesnt apply to Mr Hs situation. 
The term Mr H is referring to summarises the process that VM will follow if it is VM that 
makes the decision to transfer Mr Hs PPP to another provider. It does not outline the 
process VM will follow if it is Mr H who makes the decision to transfer his PPP. 
For clarity, the term Mr H is referring to says: 
16b Can Virgin Money transfer my pension? We may transfer your pension to another 
registered pension scheme that is governed by HMRC where we consider that this would 
mean that you would receive a better pension product or service. If we do this, well give you 
at least 30 days notice before the transfer is due to take place. The value of your pension 
would be protected throughout any transfer, and we would seek to ensure that youre not 
prejudiced by the transfer.
As I said, Im satisfied this term does not apply to Mr Hs situation. The term that does apply 
here, should Mr H decide to transfer his pension fund, is: 
You can transfer your pension savings to another pension provider at any time, and we 
wont charge for this. Once we receive notification from your new pension provider, and both 
parties have all the information needed, well move your pension to them using the unit price 
on the transfer day. Once your new provider has told us that you are transferring you cant 
change your mind. 
Im satisfied that this term clearly states that the unit price that will be relied on when an 
external transfer is being processed is the price on the day the funds are actually transferred 
to the new provider  and not on the day the transfer is requested by Mr H. And this means 
that VM doesnt place funds in cash accounts once a consumer has initiated the transfer 
process, as the transfer value is not calculated at that stage. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call Mr H made to a VM advisor on 5 February 2022. He 
asked the advisor whether VM used a cash account to hold funds while transfers were being 
processed. He was told it doesnt  that all funds remain in investment accounts. When he 
expressed concern that the value of his pension fund could change during the transfer 
process, the adviser confirmed that this was correct, that all funds are subject to market 
movements.
So Im satisfied the plan terms mean VM was correct to tell Mr H on 5 February 2022 that it 
does not transfer pension funds to a cash account once a consumer initiates the transfer of 
their funds to a different provider. This means that I dont intend to ask VM to take any 
further action in relation to Mr Hs request that his funds are placed in a cash account at the 
point in time that he initiates the transfer process.  
When Mr H responded to my provisional decision, he provided terms that he said showed 
that VM would rely on the unit price on the day it received full written instructions to transfer 
funds. VM has confirmed that these are old terms and have been superseded several times. 
And I can see that the terms are indeed those listed under a different Virgin brand, which I 
understand no longer exists. So while I appreciate that Mr H would likely have had no idea 
he was submitting old terms, they are out of date and the term that can be relied on here is 
the one Ive outlined above. 
Other concerns When Mr H rang VM in February 2022, its IT systems were not working. So while he talked 
in general terms about his PPP, the VM adviser couldnt access his plan. Im sure this was 
inconvenient for Mr H, but I think its fair to say it was a minor inconvenience and Ive not 
seen that it caused Mr H any detriment. So I dont think it warrants an award of 
compensation. 
I can appreciate that Mr H is also concerned about the fact that the value of his pension 
funds have decreased quite significantly over the past 18 months or so. I make no specific 
findings on this point, but its important to note that the value of investments can go down as 
well as up. Bond and Gilt funds arent immune to risk, and its my understanding that global 
events have affected most investments, with increased inflation and interest causing gilt 
values to fall significantly.
Mr H is concerned that VM said it would hold onto his funds indefinitely if he did not 
complete the necessary transfer paperwork. Its not clear just what Mr H is concerned about 
here  if he doesnt complete the necessary transfer paperwork, in whatever form that 
contains all the necessary information required by VM, then it reasonably follows that VM 
cant transfer his funds to a new provider. Broadly speaking, it cant transfer the funds 
without his authorisation, and his authorisation is given by him correctly completing and 
submitting the transfer paperwork. 
To summarise, Im satisfied that Mr H was provided with the correct transfer paperwork by 
VM back in December 2021, and that the transfer paperwork made it clear what steps need 
to be taken by Mr H to start the transfer process. I understand why Mr H might be reluctant 
to transfer his funds to a new provider at this stage, given the decrease in the fund value. 
And I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation he finds himself in. But while I know Mr 
H will be disappointed with my decision, I am not asking VM to take further action in relation 
to his complaint. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman