DRN-2794783
The complaint
Ms A complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont investigate and refund all of the 
disputed transactions on her account which she says she didnt make or otherwise 
authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
On 18 September 2020, Ms A called Metro to dispute three transactions made using her 
credit card totalling £249.26.  The transactions were all made in the UK in October 2018.  
During the course of the call, Ms A said she didnt authorise the transactions, as she was 
abroad at the time they were made  with her card in her possession.  Metros adviser 
informed Ms A that her dispute would be investigated.  She called Metro again on 8 October 
2020.  In that call, the Metro adviser informed Ms A that a dispute claim couldnt be raised 
because 13 months had passed since the transactions were debited from her account.
Unhappy with this, Ms A raised a complaint.  She argued that as she had informed Metro 
beforehand that she was going away, it shouldve flagged the transactions, as they were 
made in the UK whilst she was abroad.  She complained that during the 18 September 2020 
call, she was told her dispute would be investigated, but has now been told its too late.  She 
also said that due to her personal circumstances at the time, she was unable to contact 
Metro sooner.
Metro investigated Ms As complaint.  It responded saying because the transactions took 
place in 2018, and that the required timeframe to raise such disputes had elapsed, it was 
unable to report the transactions as fraud.  It added that it wouldnt have been able to 
manually block the transactions at the time, as none of them flagged on its system.  Lastly, 
Metro accepted that Ms A was provided with incorrect information on 18 September 2020.  
To reflect its poor customer service, it apologised, paid Ms A £40 and provided feedback to 
its staff.
Unhappy with Metros response, Ms A referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  She was satisfied 
that Ms A first disputed the specific transactions concerned with Metro on 18 September 
2020.  So, she concluded Ms A raised her dispute too late.  Our investigator said it wasnt 
this services role to tell banks how their fraud systems should operate.  She also felt Metros 
offer of £40 compensation was fair.
Ms A disagreed with the investigators findings.  In broad summary, she reiterated that 
Metros fraud systems shouldve flagged the transactions whilst she was abroad.  She said 
Metro had provided her with poor customer service and that when she took out her credit 
card with Metro, the applicable time limit to dispute transactions was not mentioned to her.  
She also said the £40 offered wasnt fair and that compassion should be shown due to her 
personal circumstances.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
Disputed transactions not flagging
Ms A says she forewarned Metro she was going away, so it shouldve flagged the 
transactions concerned, as they were made in the UK whilst she was abroad.  Having 
considered this, I dont agree.  As Metro has explained, its customers dont usually have to 
inform it of their travel plans; however, if they do, it says this only assists with transactions 
that may flag up in the country the customer has travelled to.  Overall  and bearing in mind 
banks cant be involved in every single transaction  I dont find it unreasonable that the 
transactions didnt flag on Metros systems at the time.
13-month time limit
Regulation 74 of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 Regulations), states 
that as long as a bank has provided or made available the information required of them, then 
any potential refund for a disputed transaction is available if it is reported, without undue 
delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date.  The terms and 
conditions of Ms As account with Metro also contain a similar provision, which is in-line with 
Regulation 74. 
 
As the time limit is set out in the terms and conditions of Ms As account, Im satisfied Metro 
made her aware of it.
Having listened to the telephone call between Ms A and Metro which took place on 4 
January 2019, Im not persuaded that she raised a dispute about the transactions then.  I 
say this because the majority of the call was about how much was owed on Ms As 
accounts.  She did mention that she had seen some transactions on her credit card account 
which she didnt recognise; and asked what the process was to dispute them.  Metros 
adviser explained he would need to transfer Ms A to the relevant team  presumably the 
disputes team.  In response, Ms A said she didnt want to be transferred, as she was still 
going through her statements to ascertain the relevant information, so she could go through 
it with the disputes teams.  During the call, Ms A didnt provide any specific information about 
the transactions and confirmed she would call back later when she was sure about them.
The first time Ms A provided any specific information about the transactions to Metro was on 
18 September 2020.  This was nearly two years after the transactions were debited from her 
account.  For this reason, Im satisfied that she informed Metro about the transactions later 
than 13 months as required by Regulation 74 and the terms and conditions of her account.  
Im also satisfied that Ms A wouldve had the information available to her at the time to 
dispute the transactions  she confirmed in both of the above calls that she noticed the 
transactions on her statements.
Ms A has shared personal circumstances which she says prevented her from raising the 
dispute sooner.  So, Ive thought about whether the reasons she has provided means that it would be unfair of Metro to rely on Regulation 74 and the terms and conditions.  In doing so, 
whilst I empathise with Ms As circumstances at the time, Im satisfied Metro acted fairly.  Im 
particularly persuaded by the fact that Ms A had contacted Metro on two occasions on 9 and 
14 January 2020.  These calls took place post the 4 January 2020 call (where Ms A said she 
would call Metro back to discuss the transactions).  However, during both telephone calls, 
she made no mention of the transactions  something which I wouldve reasonably expected 
her to do.
So, taking all the above points together  Im satisfied Metro has fairly relied on Regulation 
74 and the terms and conditions of Ms As account to conclude her dispute was raised after 
the 13-month time limit.
Customer service
Metro accepts it provided Ms A incorrect information on 18 September 2020.  It has also said 
that when she made her complaint on 8 October 2020, a mistake was made which meant it 
wasnt logged.  I acknowledge that Metro didnt provide great customer service.  However, 
on both occasions, when Ms A contacted Metro again, it quickly rectified things.  Moreover, 
whilst Metro made some mistakes  it has ultimately dealt with the disputes Ms A wanted to 
raise, correctly.  So, I think the £40 Metro paid Ms A, along with its apology, fairly reflect the 
trouble and upset caused  particularly the costs of the calls she had to make.  As I 
understand it, the £40 has already been paid to Ms A, so I dont require Metro to do anything 
further.
Ms A has also raised some concerns about requesting transcripts of the calls in question.  
However, I can assure her that I have listened to all the calls.  So, for the reasons Ive 
already given  Im not persuaded further compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman