DRN-2080481
The complaint
Mr W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved a credit card 
with a £250 limit. 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr W applied for a credit card with Vanquis. Mr Ws application said he earned 
£48,000 with a household income of £80,000. Vanquis completed a credit search and found 
some defaults from around seven months before the application. Vanquis also found Mr W 
had around £4,300 of unsecured credit outstanding. 
Mr W used the credit card for around thirteen months and missed some payments during 
that time. The missed payments show on Mr Ws credit file. 
Mr W complained that Vanquis shouldnt have approved his application due to his credit 
rating. Vanquis responded on 29 October 2019 but didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Vanquis 
advised that it is a second chance lender and that Mr Ws application had been approved in 
line with its lending criteria. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what had happened. 
The investigator thought Vanquis had dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
do anything else. Mr W asked to appeal so his case has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has told us that he feels Vanquis lent irresponsibly as other lenders declined 
applications he made. I take Mr Ws point, but I can only look at Vanquis actions. Ive 
reviewed the application Mr W completed with Vanquis along with the information it had 
available. Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I havent been persuaded that Vanquis lent 
irresponsibly. 
Vanquis has explained that it is a second chance lender. That means, it will lend to 
consumers with some adverse credit, including defaults. Vanquis has sent in systems 
evidence to show it was aware that Mr W had around £500 of defaults when he applied and 
that the most recent one was registered about seven months earlier. Vanquis credit search 
also picked up about £4,300 of other unsecured credit. 
Mr W declared an income of £48,000 and a household income of £80,000. I note that 
Vanquis approved a reasonably modest credit limit of £250. Taking the credit file information 
and application details Mr W gave, I think Vanquis decision to proceed was reasonable. 
Lenders have to complete proportionate checks to ensure the borrowing is sustainable. 
Here, Vanquis looked at Mr Ws credit file, noted the adverse credit it found and took his 
other outstanding credit into account. Vanquis reviewed Mr Ws income and application 
information. Im satisfied that those checks were proportionate. As Mr Ws application was in 
line with Vanquis lending criteria, Im satisfied that its decision to proceed with the credit 
card was reasonable based on what it knew. 
Mr W has asked for the missed payments to be removed. But lenders have to report 
accurate information about how accounts are operated. And the arrears information 
accurately reflects the payments Mr W made. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but Im satisfied Vanquis decision to proceed with his 
application was reasonable. I havent found that Vanquis lent irresponsibly, so Im not 
upholding Mr Ws complaint or telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman