DRN-2442504
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited, trading as Jaguar Financial Services, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The agreement was for £14,500 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of 
£285.01. At the time, the car was almost four years old and had done 44,088 miles. 
Mr L was unhappy with the car after he took possession of it, because there was peeling 
paint on the front and rear bumpers. This was repaired in September 2018. In May 2019, Mr 
L took the car back to the dealership because there was a crack in the front bumper. This 
was replaced in July 2019, but the body shop did some additional damage during the fitting 
process. And this additional damage was repaired in September 2019. 
Mr L was still unhappy with the quality of the paintwork, and he complained to Black Horse in 
July 2020. They arranged for an independent inspection of the car, which took place in 
October 2020. And the inspector said the colour match was acceptable. But Black Horse 
offered to compensate Mr L £300 for the trouble and upset hed been caused because of the 
issues hed had with the car, and for any inconvenience hed suffered in having to raise a 
complaint. Mr L didnt accept this offer, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator thought the peeling paintwork on the front and back bumpers was a 
cosmetic issue and didnt mean the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. And he thought the repairs in 2018 had been successful, so the crux of the 
complaint was the cracked front bumper.
Because of the time Mr L had the car, and the mileage hed travelled, the investigator 
thought the cracked bumper was most likely the result of wear and tear; otherwise it 
wouldve been identified sooner  shortly after supply or when work was done on the bumper 
in 2018. So he didnt think this meant the car was of an unsatisfactory quality at the point it 
was supplied to Mr L. And, because of this, the investigator thought the offer made by Black 
Horse was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator  he didnt think it was fair to say that the cracked 
bumper was down to wear and tear. He believes the cracked bumper was the cause of the 
peeling paintwork in 2018, and hes said that the spray shop who did the work in 2018 told 
him this was the case. He also believes that, because he only did 800 miles between the 
peeling paintwork being repaired and the damaged bumper being identified, this proves that 
these are the same fault. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Black Horse are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. And, if a fault is identified after six 
months, its for Mr L to prove that the fault was present at the point of supply. So, if I thought 
the car was faulty when Mr L took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this right.
The fact that Mr L had peeling paintwork repaired in 2018, and a damaged front bumper 
replaced in 2019, isnt in dispute. But I need to consider whether these two things are linked, 
whether they were present when the car was supplied and, if so, whether this made the car 
of an unsatisfactory quality.
There were problems with the paintwork on the front and rear bumpers, which was resolved 
shortly after Mr L was supplied with car. But Im in agreement with the investigator that 
peeling paintwork on the bumpers is a cosmetic issue and, by itself, it doesnt mean the car 
was of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied. 
If the front bumper was damaged at the point the car was supplied to Mr L, Im satisfied this 
wouldve been picked up when the paintwork to the bumper was dealt with in 2018. 
Especially if this damage was the underlying cause of the peeling paintwork. 
Mr L has provided a copy of a voicemail he was left by the spray shop, asking him to call 
them. He says theres no other reason why theyd call him other than to arrange for him to 
view the damage to the front bumper. I dont agree with this - there are a number of reasons 
why they might contact Mr L, for example to ask where the locking wheel nut adaptor is, or to 
advise of a delay in the work being completed. So I cant take this voicemail as proof the 
front bumper was definitely damaged when the paintwork was repaired in 2018.
Mr L has also provided a copy of another voicemail, from the dealership who were dealing 
with the damaged bumper. He says this shows the dealership were fighting the corner [and] 
thats because of the failed repair due to it being a crack. While the dealership say they 
were fighting Mr Ls corner, this was in relation to getting the bumper replaced. Theres no 
mention in this call about the underlying cause of the original paintwork damage, or about 
the front bumper being cracked when the car was supplied to Mr L.
Having reviewed all of the evidence, Ive seen nothing that shows me the front bumper was 
cracked when the car was supplied to Mr L, or that the peeling paintwork on the front 
bumper was as a result of cracking or other damage. And the car had peeling paintwork on 
both the front and rear bumpers, which was fixed in 2018, but the damage identified in 2019 
was only to the front bumper. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to conclude that the cause of the 
peeling paint on the front bumper was because of an underlying and unidentified crack, but 
the exact same issue with the rear bumper was as a result of something completely different.Ive seen an invoice dated 19 September 2018, for the paintwork done on the front and rear 
bumpers. And this shows the car had done 45,153 miles. Ive also seen an invoice dated 30 
July 2019, for the replacement front bumper. And this shows the car had done 46,700 miles. 
So the car had travelled 1,547 miles between the paintwork being fixed and the front bumper 
being replaced.
Mr L has said that some of this mileage was caused by the dealership taking his car from 
Staffordshire to Cheshire for the bumper to be replaced. And 46,700 is the mileage when the 
bumper was replaced, not when he became aware of the bumper issue. So he estimates 
hed done no more than 800 miles before the bumper damage became known.
I accept what Mr L is saying, but bumpers are a part of a car that can be easily damaged as 
theyre designed to protect the main bodywork of the car from low impact collisions. The 
front bumper couldve easily been damaged by the car hitting something, or something 
hitting the car (either when Mr L was present or not). And I think that 800 miles is more than 
sufficient mileage for some damage to potentially happen to the front bumper.
So, for the reasons stated, Im satisfied that the peeling paintwork of the front and rear 
bumpers, and the subsequent damage to the front bumper, were separate, unrelated issues. 
And the damage to the front bumper wasnt present or developing at the time the car was 
supplied to Mr L. So I wont be holding Black Horse responsible for the front bumper 
damage, or for anything resulting from this.
The damaged front bumper was replaced, at no cost to Mr L. But, when this repair 
happened, some additional damage was caused to the bonnet of the car. This additional 
damage was also repaired, which involved the bonnet being resprayed.
Mr L is unhappy with the paintwork following this repair. Ive seen a copy of the independent 
report carried out on the car on 6 October 2020. The inspector said that the bonnet was the 
incorrect colour being slightly lighter [and] the paintwork finish and colour of the front bumper 
was even and consistent with a consistent colour match to both wings. The engineer also 
said that the front bumpers colour match and finish to both front wings was accurate and 
acceptable.
Mr L has also provided a report on the paintwork, following an inspection he had done on 21 
January 2021. This report concluded that the bonnet and front bumper display the same 
colouration and shading but do not have the compatibility of all other panels. And the report 
recommended the bonnet and front bumper needed to be refinished to achieve a good 
colour match. 
Both of these reports refer to an issue with the colour of the bonnet. And this results from the 
additional damage done when the front bumper was replaced. For the reasons already 
given, Im not holding Black Horse responsible for the damage to the front bumper, so I wont 
be holding them responsible for the colour of the resprayed bonnet. This is something that 
Mr L will need to take up directly with the dealership who replaced the front bumper and 
caused the additional damage to the bonnet.
So I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything more. Theyve already offered Mr L £300 
compensation, and its now for him to decide whether to accept this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman