DRN-3577779
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Phoenix Life Limited has decreased the payments made to him 
following a successful claim on an income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr T made a successful claim on his income protection policy. During the life of the claim 
Phoenix Life made a lump sum payment to him as they realised that hed not been paid 
enough money historically. However, they also reduced the future payments made each 
month by around £100. 
Mr T challenged the decision to reduce the monthly payments, but Phoenix Life said he was 
being paid the right amount of money. However, they acknowledged there had been some 
communication issues so awarded Mr T £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused and 
sent him a cheque for this amount. Unhappy, Mr T complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that in May 2019 Phoenix Life had incorrectly inflated Mr Ts payments. So, whilst 
there was a period where hed not been receiving enough benefit there was also a period 
where an incorrect calculation of the benefit had been used. He explained this was why Mr T 
was due a lump sum payment but also received a reduction in his benefit level. The 
investigator was also satisfied that the £100 compensation for the communication issues 
fairly reflected what had gone wrong. 
Mr T didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he says it 
makes no sense that he was due a lump sum payment but then his benefit reduced 
particularly as the benefit is meant to be inflation-proofed (otherwise people with ongoing ill 
health would not receive as much as they expected). Mr T also thought that there should 
have been some benefits paid during a time that he was receiving his full salary, in lieu of his 
notice. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The way in which the benefit, and the associated payment for inflation, is calculated 
varies depending on whether a policyholder receives a continuing income from their 
employer, one or more pensions for ill health and state benefits.
Mr Ts circumstances changed during the lifetime of the claim. For example, there 
was a period where he was receiving an income in lieu of notice and his entitlement 
to state benefits also changed, which was linked to his receipt of pensions. Due to 
this Phoenix Life needed to do manual calculations to reflect Mr Ts changing 
circumstances during the life of the claim. 
As a result of adjustments to the policy, related to Mr Ts benefits, he received a lump 
sum payment to reflect that there was a period of time when hed not been receiving 
all the benefit he was entitled to. 
The review of the policy also identified that during one of the recalculations a mistake 
had been made by Phoenix Life. This had an impact on the way that Phoenix Life 
calculated the benefit and meant that, going forward, Mr Ts available benefit 
reduced. This was taking into account a previously undisclosed pension and the 
changes to his state benefits.
Whilst I can understand why it was disappointing that Mr Ts benefit reduced, Im 
satisfied that Phoenix Life have reasonably explained why a lump sum payment was 
due to Mr T based on his historic income but the benefits were reduced on an 
ongoing basis. I think thats because Phoenix Life was fairly reflecting the relevant 
changes to Mr Ts income during the life of the claim. 
Although Mr T feels that his policy hasnt been inflation-proofed as it should be, I 
dont agree. Based on the evidence available to me I think its most likely that 
Phoenix Life have applied the inflation calculation in line with the policy terms and 
that its done so fairly. Even if Mr T was expecting that the inflation payments would 
be done in a different way, the calculation is in line with the policy terms and has 
been fairly applied. If Mr T is concerned that the policy was mis-sold hell need to 
complain about that to the relevant business that sold the policy.
There was a period of time when Mr T was receiving his salary from his employer, in 
lieu of notice. I think its fair that he didnt receive benefit during that time. The policy 
is designed to replace income  but if an income is still being received then, in line 
with the policy terms and conditions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Phoenix Life to pay a benefit during that time. Equally, if theres no income being 
received then theres no income to apply inflation to. I think thats reasonable too. 
I appreciate that Mr T believes that the outcome of this complaint may have been 
different if our service had issued an opinion based on the available evidence, rather 
than obtaining information from Phoenix Life. I make my decision based on the 
available evidence and its only fair that includes the information provided by Phoenix 
Life, albeit it was provided after some initial delays.
I think that £100 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr T when there were communication issues during the handling of the claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman