DRN-3828815
The complaint
P complains that Santander UK Plc blocked its business account.
 
What happened
P is a property management business and has business accounts with Santander. In August 
2021 P completed a KYC verification process with Santander. Ps director, Mr S, contacted 
Santander at the beginning of October 2021 as hed received a letter requesting follow up 
contact. Mr S was told he could ignore future correspondence and no action was required. 
Later that month, Santander applied a block to Ps business account. Over the course of 
around six days Mr S contacted Santander to try and get the block removed. An agent 
initially advised account restrictions would be lifted. But the block wasnt removed and Mr S 
contacted Santander again. Mr S raised a complaint on Ps behalf.  
A few days later, Santander issued a final response. Santander apologised that two agents 
had made mistakes when speaking with Mr S about the account checks and ability to 
remove the block. But Santander said one of its processing teams needed to review 
information supplied before deciding whether the block could be removed.  
The block was removed after around six days, following a review by the processing team. 
Santander offered P £250 for the inconvenience caused. On behalf of P, Mr S referred its 
complaint to this service. Mr S explained hed spent around six days on the phone trying to 
speak with Santander and resolve the situation. Mr S also explained that he and members of 
staff had to spend a lot of time dealing with angry customers and complaints. Mr S has 
explained return business was impacted as a result. 
Santander advised it wanted to increase the offer to £550 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused. Our investigator thought Santanders offer was fair. Mr S asked to appeal Ps 
complaint and said the offer didnt recognise the level of distress and inconvenience caused 
or reflect losses to the business. As Mr S asked to appeal Ps complaint, it was passed to 
me to make a decision. I recently asked our investigator to contact Mr S and ask for 
evidence supporting what hes told us about Ps losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying that I agree with Mr S that the service provided by Santander in 
this case was poor. Mr S reacted in good time when he received correspondence from 
Santander and called to check everything was ok. And when the account block was in place, 
Mr S clearly spent a lot of time on the phone trying to get matters resolve with Santander. I 
also think its fair to say that despite initially telling Mr S the account block would be 
removed, it wasnt. It took another few days before the account restrictions were fully 
removed. 
Mr S has told us about the impact of Santanders actions. Mr S has asked for a sum 
equivalent to six days trading, a sum reflecting the loss of six properties from repeating 
business and fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I recently asked 
Mr S to provide evidence to support what hes told us about Ps losses. 
In my request, I asked for evidence from Ps phone records showing the amount of time 
spent on calls. I also asked for evidence that renewal business had been lost as a result of 
Santanders actions. I said I would review client correspondence identifying losses in return 
business. I also asked for evidence that shows Mr S had to cancel jobs P was due to 
complete whilst the block was in place. In the request, I explained that I would be unable to 
award compensation for Ps losses unless I was able to see evidence of them. 
Mr S responded and gave us a more detailed understanding of how he thinks P has lost out. 
Mr S also explained that Santanders actions had caused a large amount of suffering to him 
and other staff at P. Mr S said we should be considering Santanders actions and how they 
had impacted Ps business. 
I appreciate that Mr S and other staff at P have spent many hours dealing with the fallout of 
the account block. And I dont seek to minimise the severity of the situation. But, I can only 
award compensation to either reflect a loss, or the inconvenience caused by a business 
actions. So, without direct evidence that supports what Mr S has told us about Ps losses, I 
cant fairly make an award in line with what hes requested. I appreciate that showing the 
nature of Ps losses is difficult. But I suggested options for showing a loss in return business 
and time spent on the phone when we went back to Mr P. I also said Id be happy to 
consider evidence of cancelled jobs as a result of the account block. Whilst difficult, I remain 
of the view that for me to fairly award compensation for a financial loss, I need to see 
evidence to support what weve been told. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as no further evidence has been supplied Im unable to 
award the compensation hes requested on Ps behalf. 
In some cases, we can make an award for the distress and inconvenience caused by a 
business mistake. But, the approach is limited when the complainant is a business rather 
than an individual. Here, whilst Mr S is representing his business and P is the complainant. P 
is a limited company. And businesses cant experience distress in their own rights. So whilst 
Mr S and other staff mayve experienced trouble and upset, I can only make an award 
regarding inconvenience caused to P. 
I can see the situation did cause P a significant level of inconvenience and Im pleased 
Santander went on to increase its offer to £550. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Im 
satisfied £550 is a fair reflection of the level of inconvenience caused to P while the account 
block remained in place. I havent found grounds to increase the award or tell Santander to 
take further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay P £550. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman