DRN-1748754
Complaint
Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in 2003, at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr B applied for his credit card online, in his own time, without any potential pressure from a 
salesperson. The application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave an 
overview of the policys purpose and cost, and then had two options to choose from: one to 
take PPI, and one to turn it down. According to the electronic record of Mr Bs application, he 
chose the option to buy PPI. Ive not seen any wider problems with Canada Squares sales 
process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr B was unfairly pressured into 
having PPI  it looks like it was just set out as an optional extra. So I think its most likely that 
Canada Square made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it at the time  though I can completely understand if he no longer recalls doing so 
after so many years.
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so they didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. They did have to give Mr B enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mr B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr B chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And 
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and covered him for much longer. 
I understand Mr Bs partner wouldve been happy to help, but there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed, and this policy meant he wouldnt have to ask his 
partner to pay for his credit card if off sick or out of work. So the policy could have been 
useful for Mr B in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Lastly, Mr B says he got a refund of a different policy which covered a different type of 
product. I do understand why hes raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, 
covered different things, were useful in different circumstances, were sold using different 
methods at different times, and so on. So even if one particular policy was mis-sold, it 
doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, too. Ive explained above why I do not 
think that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman