DRN-2023953
The complaint
Miss E says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss E bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint. 
Neither NatWest nor Miss E had anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because the sale took place a long time ago, so 
theres understandably limited information about how the sale took place. Because of this, 
Im unable to say that NatWest failed to make it clear to Miss E that she had a choice about 
taking the policy, or that she didnt choose to take it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Miss E so it didnt have to check if it was right for her.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Miss E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Miss E had a medical condition. Having obtained further information from 
her about that condition, I understand the condition was mild and well controlled. So, I dont 
think Miss E wouldve declined to take the PPI if NatWest had given her clear information 
about the exclusion of pre-existing medical conditions.
Miss E doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the other main things the policy didnt 
cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve 
been useful to her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E. But 
NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss E because NatWest got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Miss E about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Miss E, that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E.But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss E any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman