DRN-3192812
The complaint
Mr W complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined his income 
protection claim.
What happened
Mr W works as an account representative, and is a member of his employers group income 
protection policy, underwritten by Aviva. He became absent from work in February 2020 and 
was certified unfit to work by his GP. He was suffering with symptoms of a bowel condition 
as well as pain related to a foot injury, and symptoms of stress, anxiety and depression. 
Mr W made an incapacity claim via his employer in July 2020. Initially Aviva declined this, 
saying Mr W had not fulfilled the policys eligibility criteria in regard to being actively at work 
prior to the claim. But following further information from Mr Ws employer about his hours 
worked, Aviva agreed to assess it. 
Mr W provided medical evidence in support of his claim, including the following reports. 
Report from Dr M - February 2020 
Dr M is a consultant gastroenterologist. He said Mr Ws bowel condition symptoms had 
worsened since November 2019 and he had lost weight. He said Mr W had reported opening 
his bowels up to five times each day and having abdominal pain. Dr M noted Mr W 
attributes his deterioration in part to recent stress at work and also said there was an 
element of another bowel condition in addition. Further tests were planned, and Dr M said it 
was likely he would recommend immunosuppressive therapy. 
Report from Dr M - March 2020
Dr M said the results of the tests were mostly normal, with one level being marginally 
elevated. He said he thought a mild active bowel disease was contributing to the bowel 
movement symptoms, and prescribed a steroid medication. He noted Mr W had reported 
bowel movements up to five times each day, with occasional urgency. 
Occupational health report  March 2020
The report reflected Mr Ws account of his symptoms having worsened, and experiencing 
intense pain and frequent bowel movements, plus stress. It said Mr W had reported working 
from home allowed him to manage his symptoms more effectively, but struggled with lack of 
flexibility of meeting times. The occupational health adviser thought Mr W was fit for work if 
temporary adjustments were put in place around working from home, flexible hours and 
regular short breaks. 
Occupational health report  July 2020
The report documented Mr W had said hed been unable to meet with his consultant  Dr M 
 due to Covid-19 constraints, and appointments being delayed. And he was due to have 
further investigations and scans when these could be booked. Hed said his condition had 
worsened; he was experiencing symptoms of his bowel condition, including urgency and 
frequency of bowel movements and pain. Plus, stress, anxiety and depression symptoms 
including low mood, poor concentration, fatigue and exhaustion. 
Mr W had reported he was undergoing a new treatment plan for the bowel condition 
symptoms, which hed been advised could take up to three months to show any benefit. And 
it was noted Mr W was also experiencing severe pain and restricted mobility in one of his 
feet  he was awaiting physiotherapy which was also delayed due to Covid-19. 
The report said Mr W perceives the cause of his stress to be related to a combination of 
personal and work issues, which management are aware of. And concluded Mr W was unfit 
for work and said his symptoms were significant and it was likely these would impact his 
ability to carry out his role. 
In October 2020, Aviva declined the claim. In summary it said: 
Mr W hadnt met the definition of incapacity throughout the 26 week deferred period;
the difficulties Mr W experienced with his foot would not prevent him from working as his 
role is mostly sedentary and working from home is possible;
the bowel symptoms would make office working difficult, but working from home was 
possible;
the inflammatory markers for the bowel condition were normal;
the occupational health report in March had indicated Mr W could return to work with 
adjustments, but he did not return;
Mr W was not prescribed any medication for stress, anxiety or depression, so it didnt 
think these conditions were severe enough to prevent him from being able to work; and
some of Mr Ws stress had been attributed to work, and work-related stress was not 
covered by the policy. 
Mr W complained. He said hed wanted to attempt a return to work in March 2020 following 
the occupational health report, but his employer had said his role could not be adjusted. Mr 
W said his condition had worsened during the deferred period, and this was reflected in the 
second occupational health report. He also said he thought Aviva hadnt fairly considered the 
impact of his physical symptoms on his mental wellbeing.
Aviva said itd reviewed the medical evidence again, but it still didnt think Mr Ws symptoms 
prevented him from working in his role, or a suited role, from home. And it said it thought Mr 
Ws absence was triggered by workplace stress, and as such, would not be covered under 
the policy. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. An investigator here looked into what had happened, and said he didnt think Aviva had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Aviva made no further comments. However Mr W disagreed. In summary he said: 
Avivas Chief Medical Officer (CMO) had not assessed him personally, and had only 
reviewed reports, whereas his GP had medically assessed him and provided fit notes;
the bowel condition is a chronic condition and doesnt require monthly reviews;
Aviva has chosen to prioritise the outcome of the first occupational health report over the 
second;
Aviva over-looked medical evidence;
his inability to work was not caused by any workplace matters; and
he suffers with several conditions, and the combined impact of these is that he would be 
unable to perform his own or a suited role, on a full or part-time basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to clarify that Im concentrating on the main issues in this complaint. If I havent 
commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent considered it. 
No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman 
service and my role in it.
Part of Mr Ws complaint relates to Avivas initial refusal of the claim on the basis that Mr W 
hadnt met the policy eligibility criteria around being actively at work. However, on receipt of 
further clarifying information from Mr W and his employer, Aviva accepted that Mr W was 
eligible, and went on to assess the claim. Our investigator thought Aviva hadnt acted 
unreasonably here. And as this no longer appears to be in dispute by either party, I dont 
think I need to make a finding on this matter. So, Ive gone on to consider the remainder of 
the complaint.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Aviva has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
The members inability to perform on a full and part time basis the duties of his
or her job role and other occupations for which they are suited by reason of 
education, training or experience, as a result of their illness or injury. 
This means for a successful claim, in addition to Mr W needing to have been prevented from 
being able to perform the duties of his role due to his illness, he also needed to have been 
unable to follow a suited alternative occupation. A suited occupation would not need to be for the same employer. And his incapacity would need to be sustained for the duration of the 26 
week policy deferred period. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Ws ongoing health issues, having considered the policy terms 
alongside the medical evidence, I dont think Aviva declined his claim unfairly. And I say this 
for the following reasons. 
Mr W was continually deemed unfit for work by his GP throughout the policy deferred 
period. And whilst I dont dispute the GPs assessment, Im not persuaded that this 
sufficiently demonstrates he met the policy definition of incapacity. 
Ive considered the symptoms and difficulties presented by Mr Ws bowel condition and I 
can understand how this would impact him both physically and emotionally at work. 
Although I appreciate the urgency and frequency of bowel movements would be difficult 
to manage, I dont think the medical evidence supports that he was prevented from 
working from home, on at least a part-time basis. Similarly, I accept Mr Ws foot pain 
made walking difficult, but with adjustments for home working, and considering the 
mostly sedentary nature of the role, it seems reasonable this would not have prevented 
him from working. 
Mr W said the assessment by Avivas CMO isnt helpful in understanding his condition, 
as he has not been reviewed in person. Its standard industry practice for an insurer to 
assess a claim based on medical reports provided by the consumer, so I dont find this 
unreasonable. In making a claim, the onus is on Mr W to provide supporting evidence. 
And having reviewed the medical reports provided, I dont think the conclusions drawn by 
Avivas CMO were unfair.
Dr Ms report detailed Mr W had related the deterioration of his bowel condition 
symptoms, in part, to stress at work. And the further report following the tests he 
conducted, said the results had mostly been normal. Dr M thought a mild active bowel 
condition was causing Mr Ws bowel movement symptoms. And he provided no 
comment on Mr Ws ability to work. 
The occupational health reports mostly reflect Mr Ws self-reporting of his symptoms and 
how these were impacting him, as opposed to any clinical assessment. Although I note 
the report in July reflects that Mr Ws symptoms had worsened, there is no further 
medical report to support this or provide more detail. And no opinion was given in the 
report, on the previously recommended adjustments for home working. 
Nothing Ive seen in the medical records leads me to think Avivas opinion that Mr W 
would have been able to work during the deferred period - at least part-time with 
adjustments - was unreasonable. 
Ive considered what Mr W has said about further appointments and investigations being 
delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and I accept this. However, I still think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on the medical evidence available, and I note it said it was 
willing to review any further reports Mr W might submit. 
Mr W had said he wanted to provide further evidence following the investigators view. 
This hasnt been received. However, based on the content of the medical reports from the earlier part of the deferred period, I think its most likely any further reports Mr W 
could have obtained, would not have demonstrated he was incapacitated for the full 
duration of the deferred period from February until August 2020.
Mr W provided Aviva some medical reports from 2019 and was disappointed it hadnt 
considered these. However, Mr Ws period of absence from work began in February 
2020. So, I dont think its unreasonable that Aviva may not have considered earlier 
reports to be relevant the claim period.
Mr W has said his employer advised his role could not be adjusted for home working. 
And I note he has said he was willing to attempt a return to work in March 2020, if this 
had been possible. However, the policy cover isnt specific to Mr Ws job with his 
employer at the time  the terms state job role and other occupations for which they are 
suited. And Im satisfied if Mr W was able to work in his job role from home, had that 
been possible, he would have been able to do the same for another employer, or in a 
suited occupation, at that time.  
Aviva said it thought Mr Ws mental health symptoms were partly caused by work-related 
stress, and that there was no cover under the policy for this. Ive not seen evidence of 
the type of referrals and treatment I might expect to see for a mental health condition of a 
severity which would have prevented Mr W from working. And the medical reports reflect 
several references to Mr W linking his stress to his work, as well as in his exchanges 
with Aviva. So I think it was fair for Aviva conclude some of Mr Ws stress was most likely 
caused by work-related factors, rather than an illness. Workplace stress is not 
considered an illness, and although I accept the symptoms can be debilitating and can 
often lead to more serious mental health problems, Im not satisfied that was the case 
here. And I agree theres no cover under the policy for the circumstances of work-related 
stress. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman