DRN-2043567
The complaint
 Mrs P complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In November 2018, Mrs P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. 
Within the first week of Mrs P getting the car, it broke down. Mrs P has said the car was in 
and out of the garage until June 2019, where the engine was rebuilt. These repairs took 
around a month. Mrs P says the car still wasnt running properly when it was returned to her. 
The supplying dealer offered to buy the car back at the then market value, but Mrs P needed 
to keep the car for a family trip to Italy.
In July 2019 she complained to MotoNovo and asked to reject the car.
In response, MotoNovo said it wouldnt accept rejection because Mrs P had accepted the car 
back following repairs.
Mrs P wasnt happy with the outcome and complained to this service.
Pour investigator upheld the complaint. he said that given the extent of the repairs and how 
soon they were needed after Mrs P acquire the car, he didnt think the car was sufficiently 
durable. He said MotoNovo should pay compensation to Mrs P.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said the fault which required repair 6 months after the pint of 
supply wasnt the same fault as that which had occurred in the first week. It also said there 
was no evidence of a point of supply fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into any contract to supply goods that 
the goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would 
expect, taking into account factors including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods includes fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, safety and durability.
The car was around 3 years old when Mrs P acquired it, with around 16,400 miles on the 
odometer. The amount of credit provided under the finance agreement was £23,799. 
Whilst MotoNovo is responsible for the car at the point of supply, it isnt necessarily 
responsible for faults which happen subsequently. The relevant legislation says that if a fault 
arises in the first 6 months, its for the business to show that the fault wasnt present when 
the car was supplied. After 6 months its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
MotoNovo has said that theres no evidence of a point of supply fault. However, theres no 
dispute that after around 6 months of ownership, the car required the engine to be rebuilt.  I 
dont think a reasonable person would consider a car of this age and mileage to be 
satisfactory if, after only 6 months, a major part such as the engine required total repair. This 
suggest to me that the engine wasnt durable, which is one of the factors I take account of 
when considering satisfactory quality. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Putting things right
Mrs P has explained that she wanted to reject the car but felt trapped into keeping it after 
the engine had been rebuilt because she needed the car to travel to Italy. Its clear that Mrs p 
has been inconvenienced as a result of the car requiring repairs  she was provided with a 
courtesy car, but it wasnt big enough to accommodate all of her family. Mrs P was without a 
suitable sized car for over a month, which is a long time to be inconvenienced.
Taking everything into consideration, I think it fair to ask MotoNovo to compensate Mrs P for 
the time she was without her car (or a suitable courtesy car) and for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
Refund Mrs P a sum equal to one monthly payment (£325)
Pay compensation of £175
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman