DRN-3114554
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat 
Financial Services (VWFS) terminated his agreement after he fell into financial difficulty.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The agreement was for £12,500, with 48 monthly payments of £192, and a final 
payment of £5,985.  At the time the car was 6 months old and had done 1,700 miles.
Mr T said that VWFS didnt give him any notice that they were terminating his agreement. He 
said he received a letter from them advising him to pay the arrears or they would terminate 
the agreement. He said he received this letter on the last day they said he had to make the 
payment. He said he tried to call VWFS but he couldnt get through to them so he couldnt 
make the payment. He said he received a letter on 17 August 2020 informing him the 
agreement had been terminated.
He said he had tried to contact VWFS on several occasions during the pandemic but 
couldnt get through  he said on the few occasions he did get through he was put on hold 
for so long that he had to hang up and return to work. 
VWFS said Mr T had cancelled his direct debit in September 2019 and was only making 
occasional payments towards the arrears. They said Mr T hadnt told them of any change in 
circumstances and no payment arrangement was agreed with them.
They said theyd issued a number of arrears letters to Mr T in the period January 2020 to 
March 2020, default notices to him in March 2020 and June 2020, followed by the 
termination notice issued on 14 August 2020.
VWFS said Mr T contacted them after hed received the notice of termination. They told Mr T 
that they wouldnt reinstate the agreement. They said they stopped repossession when Mr T 
told them his financial circumstances had been impacted by the Covid pandemic. They said 
they allowed him time to consider how to settle the agreement, or to source another car.
Mr T was unhappy with VWFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator felt that VWFS had notified Mr T of the arrears on his payment on several 
occasions, and he had other opportunities and other methods to respond to them, before 
and during the pandemic. So he didnt think VWFS had done anything wrong.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators view. He felt that VWFS didnt give him enough notice 
of the termination. He said he received the notice of termination from VWFS on the final day 
theyd given him in the letter: a letter that was dated two weeks earlier. He said he tried to 
contact them that day but couldnt get through. So he said it was unfair that they terminated 
the agreement even though hed offered payment when he eventually got through to them, 
on the Monday of the following week. He said he paid the amount theyd asked for in that 
call, and this shows that he wouldve paid it on time if hed had the opportunity to do so.
Because Mr T didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
Missed Payments
Mr T acknowledges that hed missed payments prior to the pandemic but feels this isnt 
relevant. I disagree. It was those arrears that started the process that led to the termination 
of his agreement.
Mr T entered into the agreement, agreeing to make monthly payments of £192. It appears 
the first missed payment was in August 2019, with several more missed payments over the 
following months. Mr T did make overpayments towards the arrears. But the arrears were 
never cleared, and this led to VWFS issuing arrears letters to Mr T in January 2020 and 
February 2020. And because the arrears werent cleared, VWFS issued a default notice to 
Mr T in March 2020.
A default notice is a statutory notice, required under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its 
purpose is to make sure consumers like Mr T, are fully aware of the consequences of not 
making the payment.
In this notice, VWFS informed Mr T that he was required to pay the arrears of £576.93. And 
it explained that if he failed to make payment, VWFS would take enforcement action. The 
notice informed him that if he failed to pay the arrears before 19 April 2020, they may 
terminate the agreement, repossess the car, and he would also still owe the outstanding 
arrears.
In June 2020 VWFS issued a further default notice, advising Mr T he needed to pay £561.55 
or they would terminate the agreement.
In July 2020 they issued a Notice of Sums in Arrears to Mr T. This set out the arrears owed, 
and explained what payments had been made, and what had been missed. 
On 14 August 2020 VWFS wrote to Mr T advising him that they were terminating the 
agreement as he hadnt cleared the arrears.Im satisfied that VWFS gave Mr T sufficient notice that they would terminate the agreement 
if he didnt contact them and pay the arrears. They wrote to him to tell him about the arrears, 
and then sent three formal notices warning him that if he failed to pay, they would terminate 
the agreement.
So Im satisfied that the earlier missed payments and the subsequent correspondence are 
relevant. They demonstrate that VWFS issued the required legislative notices, and that Mr T 
had sufficient warning of the consequences of not paying.
Termination of the agreement
Ive explained above why Im satisfied that Mr T was given sufficient notice of VWFS 
intention to terminate the agreement. Mr T says he wasnt given sufficient notice, because 
he only received the notice on the final day, and he tried to call to make payment but couldnt 
get through.
I have to consider whether or not it was reasonable for VWFS to terminate the agreement in 
these circumstances. And I think it was reasonable. VWFS had warned Mr T through the 
necessary statutory notices that they would terminate the agreement. They sent a default 
notice in July 2020, but Mr T didnt respond to this. So he was in breach of the agreement at 
that point, and had the opportunity then to contact VWFS and explain his financial situation. 
But that didnt happen.
So whilst I can understand Mr Ts frustration that the agreement was terminated despite his 
late attempts to remedy the situation, I think it was reasonable for VWFS to terminate the 
agreement as it had already been broken.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman