DRN-3137173
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (AFL) provided him with a hire purchase 
agreement for a car in February 2016 that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr C attended a car dealership to purchase a car that he intended to use to get to work 
and also for other personal activities. He entered into a four-year hire purchase 
agreement for a used car with a cash price of £7,995. The cost of the credit was around 
£4,797 making a total to pay of about £12,292 over 48 monthly instalments of around 
£275.
Mr C supplied a payslip to AFL to verify his income and told it that he had been in his job 
for about seven years and worked fulltime, that he was married and had been at his 
address for four years.
AFL says that it took account of the total earning to date shown on Mr Cs payslip to 
calculate that he had a monthly income of £1,965. It recorded that he had no housing 
costs and on checking his credit file had a total outstanding amount of credit of £1,654. 
AFL says that while it noted defaults in Mr Cs credit history it considered these were 
historic. AFL says that it found the credit agreement to be affordable for Mr C.
Mr C made payments under the agreement for nearly 12 months but then a direct debit 
was returned unpaid. From that time Mr C, although making several payments at the 
monthly rate as well as paying more than the monthly amount to clear arrears has also 
paid less than the monthly rate and missed payments. He has incurred numerous late fee 
and admin charges. Mr C still has the car.
Mr C says that he has struggled to meet the payments required under the credit 
agreement because it was unaffordable. He says he never told AFL that his income was 
£1,965pm and he has never earnt that much.
Mr C complained to AFL about the affordability of the hire purchase agreement in 
September 2020. AFL didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr Cs income had been 
verified and his credit score had been reached by looking at data held by credit reference 
agencies, as he had met the affordability assessment that had been undertaken Mr C had 
been approved for the credit agreement. AFL also said Mr C had made payments 
throughout the life of the agreement and his payment difficulties had arisen from a change 
in circumstances more than 12 months after the inception of the hire purchase agreement 
which couldnt have been foreseen.
Mr C was unhappy at AFLs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think AFL had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C was able to 
repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Our investigator said that AFL had acted unfairly by including Mr Cs overtime when it had 
calculated his monthly income. He said Mr Cs overtime was ad hoc and not guaranteed 
so AFL should have taken only his basic salary into account when looking at the 
affordability of the agreement. Our investigator said if AFL had done this it would have 
found Mr C wasnt in a position to sustainably pay.
Our investigator recommended that AFL should calculate whether Mr C had paid the 
£7,995 cash price for the vehicle and if he had it was fair for AFL to keep that sum and for 
Mr C to keep the car. Any amount paid by Mr C over that cash price should be 
reimbursed with interest. He also said that AFL should remove any adverse information 
about this account from Mr Cs credit file.
AFL disagreed with our investigators view. It said that the monthly income calculated by 
the investigator was incorrect and that it was fair to take into account Mr Cs overtime 
which appeared to be regular and substantial given the amount he had earnt as shown by 
his payslip. It disagreed that Mr C was overstretched and said that at the time he had 
entered into the agreement there was sufficient in his disposable income to cover the 
payments for the car. AFL said that although there was a default on Mr Cs credit file it 
also showed he had paid off debts and had recently cleared a loan, prior to taking out this 
hire purchase agreement, which hed been paying at the rate of £268pm.
As the parties were unable to agree, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law there are 
two overarching questions I needed to consider in order to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions were:
Had AFL completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr C would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, had it made a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
wouldve been able to sustainable repay the agreement
Had AFL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Id looked at the FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which contains rules for 
responsible lending by consumer credit companies and assistance to credit providers in 
assessing a consumers ability to repay credit. It sets out that checks should be conducted to 
ensure any lending is affordable and sustainable for the borrower and so should be borrower 
focused and proportionate to the circumstances of the credit. That means things like the 
amount being borrowed, the length of the loan, the size of the repayments as well as credit 
history should be considered.
Here, the information taken from Mr C was that he had been employed for seven years, had 
been living in his accommodation for four years and was married. It was recorded that he 
had no dependants and no housing costs. AFL obtained a payslip for February 2016 which 
showed Mr C was paid fortnightly and earnt a basic salary of £22,256 per year. This payslip 
also recorded that to date (week 44) he had earnt a total of around £25,409.
AFL said that by using the pay to date figure, deducting from it the given figures for tax, 
national insurance and pension contributions and dividing that amount by 44 gave an 
average weekly salary of £440.72pw which equated to a net monthly salary of around 
£1,909.In addition to using Mr Cs payslip, Id seen that AFL had undertaken a credit check and it 
had provided us with a copy of that report. This had shown that Mr C had an outstanding 
balance of credit of £1,654 with five active accounts. There was an overdraft of £1,382 with a 
credit limit of £1690, a credit card with a zero balance and a credit limit of £200, a credit card 
with a balance of £244 and credit limit of £250, a communications account with a balance of 
£28 and a second bank account with zero balance and zero credit limit. Of the active 
accounts, only the communications account showed there had been two late or missed 
payments that had occurred over eight months previously.
Mr Cs credit record had also shown that he had taken out a loan for 36 months in February 
2012 at the rate of £268pm which had been settled. Although there was one late or missing 
payment shown on this account this had been over 18 months prior to the account being 
settled.
However, this credit record had shown that there had been four defaulted accounts in Mr Cs 
past. Each of these now showed a zero balance but the last default had been in June 2015 
for a loan account.
Looking at the this hire purchase agreement, Id seen this was a credit agreement for around 
£13,292 to be repaid over a four-year period which amounted to around half of Mr Cs 
annual income. Looking at the length of the agreement, the amount of the monthly payments 
and Mr Cs past difficulties with credit, I thought AFL had carried out sufficient checks that 
were proportionate and reasonable to ascertain Mr Cs income and his level of 
indebtedness.
However, AFL didnt appear to have asked any questions as to Mr Cs expenses other than 
his credit commitments. I was unclear why it was noted there were zero housing costs when 
Mr C said he paid rent. It also appeared that AFL had been unaware that Mr C was the sole 
earner for his family as Mr C said his wife didnt work due to them having a young child. I 
thought given that Mr C had defaulted on a loan in June 2015, even though it now had a 
zero balance, that this would have raised some concern over sustainability, and so it would 
have been proportionate for AFL to gathered more information about Mr Cs outgoings. I 
appreciated AFL had relied on other data to calculate Mr Cs creditworthiness, but I couldnt 
reasonably say that would have been borrower focused.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think AFL completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would have been able to repay this agreement in a 
sustainable way. This meant I now needed to consider that had AFL had carried out those 
checks, would it have shown Mr C was able to repay this agreement in a sustainable way.
Mr C had strongly disagreed with the calculation carried out by AFL as to his 
monthly salary. Id seen from Mr Cs bank statements that his pay did vary widely 
due to overtime. Our investigator said that only Mr Cs basic salary should be 
taken into account when assessing his income as his overtime was unreliable. Mr 
Cs basic salary was £22,256 gross per year and looking at the deductions made 
from his salary, would have equated to a monthly net income of around £1,520pm.
Mr C had provided some further payslips for me to consider. Id seen from a copy of Mr Cs 
employment contract that he was employed to work 40 hours a week and was paid on a 
fortnightly basis. Id also seen from the payslips provided that by week 50 in the tax year 
2015 to 2016 Mr C had earnt around £28,345. After deducting tax and pension contributions 
for that year he had earnt a net salary of £21,669 which averages out over the year to 
£1,805pm.In a later payslip for June 2016 it showed that by week 10 of that tax year (2016/2017) Mr C 
had earnt a gross amount of around £5,220 which, if his overtime continued to be offered at 
a similar rate for the rest year, would equate to a gross annual income of £27,144 which 
would be lower than the previous years income but still exceeding his basic salary by 
£4,888 (gross).
Mr C said that his overtime wasnt regular. He had provided a payslip from January 2018 
which had shown no overtime at all having been worked and looking at his gross salary it 
appeared this was the situation for the tax year 2017/18. However, I had also noted that in 
that tax year Mr C appeared to have been off sick for a substantial period. So, I couldnt say 
that the lack of overtime was due to it not being available and as I was aware that Mr C had 
a health condition around that time that had interfered with his ability to work, I thought it was 
more likely than not that Mr C hadnt been in a position to take on additional work in that year 
rather than overtime hadnt been offered at all.
So, I thought looking at the payslips and bank statements that had been provided by Mr C, it 
was more likely than not that there had been overtime offered on a regular basis, but that the 
actual amount on offer had varied. And although Mr C hadnt been guaranteed to earn a set 
amount each month by overtime, I thought it was fair to say his income was consistently 
more than his basic salary. And, at the time Mr C entered into the credit agreement, he had 
a reasonable expectation that he would earn more than his basic salary. So, I didnt think 
AFL had acted unfairly by taking the overtime into account when it had calculated the 
average monthly salary for Mr C.
However, I thought AFL shouldnt have presumed that Mr Cs income would, in the longer 
term, include the amount of overtime shown in the February 2016 payslip. It didnt appear to 
have asked Mr C any questions about how his overtime was offered, its availability etc. And 
since its not unusual for overtime to vary, I thought it would have been fair to include a 
proportion of Mr Cs overtime into the calculation of his income. Looking at the amounts Mr C 
appeared to be earning in addition to his basic salary in 2015/16 and 2016/17 I thought it 
would have been fair to uplift Mr Cs basic salary by £2,500 per year when calculating his 
average income for the purposes of this credit agreement. This made an expected salary of 
£25,000 per year to be taken into account when considering the affordability of this credit 
agreement.
With an annual salary of £25,000 then Mr C would have had a monthly income of around 
£1,610pm, once deductions for tax and pension had been made. Looking at Mr Cs 
expenses and taking into account that he was the sole earner for his household I made the 
following deductions from that monthly amount:
Rent £352pm
Council tax £100pm
Utilities £80pm
Mobile/TV £30pm
Food £350pm
Credit repayments £25pm
Overdraft fee £30pm
Car tax £20pm
Car insurance £90pm
Petrol £30pm
Total £1,107pmThis left a disposable income of around £503pm. Deducting the monthly cost of this hire 
purchase agreement from that figure would have left a disposable income of £230pm to 
cover any other expenses. I hadnt included the Child Benefit amount in any of these figures.
Looking at that level of disposable income, I thought AFL would have found that this hire 
purchase agreement was affordable for Mr C at the time he made the application. I 
appreciated there had been a recent default on his credit file for a loan, but I thought this 
was mitigated by his clearing of that debt and that he had been able to sustain payments 
and clear another loan over 36 months at the rate of £268pm not long before taking out this 
agreement.
Mr C said that he had always had to use his overdraft facility and that this showed he was 
struggling, but I didnt think that using an overdraft in itself meant this credit agreement 
wasnt affordable. I was persuaded that the figures showed Mr C had been able to afford the 
hire purchase agreement.
AFL said that the cause of Mr C being unable to make regular payments was due to his 
losing his job in 2017 which was an unexpected change of circumstances. Mr C said he 
hadnt lost his job and had only changed his employment in 2018. I was unclear what had 
caused the problems with Mr C meeting his financial obligation under this agreement after 
the first year had passed, though there appeared to have been a period of sickness that had 
impacted on Mr Cs ability to work. But whatever the reason was, I didnt think AFL could 
have reasonably foreseen Mr C would have difficulties when looking at his financial position 
at the time he had applied for the hire purchase agreement. I was satisfied that the credit 
agreement had been affordable for Mr C at the time of its inception and that it was 
reasonable to have considered that Mr C would have been able to sustain making those 
payments.
The final matter I needed to consider was whether AFL had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. Looking at the evidence I didnt think that it had. 
Although it had added numerous charges and admin fees to Mr Cs account due to 
late payments this has been in line with the accounts terms and conditions. Mr C 
had also been able to keep the car and AFL had agreed payment plans and 
accepted reduced payments during the life of the credit agreement.
So, although I appreciated this would be of a disappointment to Mr C, I wasnt 
intending to uphold his complaint that the hire purchase agreement was 
unaffordable.
Mr C has disagreed with my provisional view. He says that any overtime was ad 
hoc, and he disputes that his earning was around £25,000 per year. He also says 
that he had arrears on his council tax and water rates to pay which werent taken 
into account when assessing his household expenses. Mr C says that he was 
struggling to cover his monthly costs and took out loans to cover his living costs. 
Mr C also says that AFL over charged him when dealing with his account. 
AFL says it agrees with my provisional view and hasnt asked me to review any of 
the conclusions that I reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr C has provided a number of further documents concerning his expenses, debts and 
credit records. He has also provided copies of payslips and copy of his P60 for March 2019, 
though some of the payslips had already been provided by him. 
I accept that there have been some changes to Mr Cs annual earnings over the years and 
that not all of his expenses were included in the household expenses. But Im afraid I havent 
changed my view that this agreement was affordable when he entered into it.
Mr C has strongly disagreed with my calculation as to his annual earnings at the time he 
entered into the credit agreement and has argued that both his Christmas bonuses and 
overtime werent regularly available and so shouldnt be included. He has included his P60 
for March 2019 which shows his income that financial year was £23, 367.This is still more 
than his basic salary and I dont know whether his earnings that year were still impacted by 
his health condition meaning he couldnt undertake the overtime as I havent seen all his 
payslips for that year. I have seen that in his March 2019 payslip that he received a bonus 
payment.  
Looking at the evidence of Mr Cs income, and on reviewing the payslips and bank 
statements provided, I still think that its more likely than not that overtime payments or a 
bonus were made each year and that he was regularly earning more than his basic salary. 
However, I still think the calculation undertake by AFL as to Mr Cs income was 
unreasonable.  Taking into account the level of earnings Ive seen, I still think its fair to add 
an additional £2,500 per year to Mr Cs basic salary. So, I think its reasonable to consider 
that his annual income was £25,000 per year when he entered into to the credit agreement 
for the car which means Mr C had a monthly income of £1,610pm.
From that figure, I had deducted a number a number of household expenses. Mr C has said 
that I havent taken all the costs he was incurring into account. I accept that there are some 
items missing but I think its important to set out that the expenses that are taken into 
account when assessing affordability would be those that are essential. However I accept 
that it would be fair to include the gym membership as he may been tied into that and would 
have to have paid a fee to be released. 
Mr C has now provided different figures for his food, petrol and other travel expenses which 
are higher than those he had originally provided. While I accept costs on things such as 
petrol can vary depending on how much the car is used, Im afraid I dont accept the new 
amounts provided by Mr C are what would be essential expenses. Mr C said he spent 
around £30pm on petrol to get to work but in response to my provisional decision says he 
was spending around £120pm due to visiting family and outings with his child. He also says 
that an additional £100pm was spent on public transport. I dont think its likely that Mr C 
would have miscalculated his travel costs by £190pm when first providing these expenses 
and I also think its likely that if he was struggling financially that this would be an area in 
which he could cut down his expenses quite considerably. I think its fair to take the £30pm 
on petrol to travel to work as an essential expenditure.
I am also satisfied that the amounts calculated for food, utilities and credit payments are 
correct as set out above. However, I accept that there is no payment recorded for the water 
rates and looking at the bill this would be around £83pm so I agree that should be added to 
the household expenses total.
Mr C has also shown that he was in arrears with his council tax and had been requested to 
repay these arrears at £100pm, however this would have been for a period of around six 
months so I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr C was paying £200pm for council tax 
because that was a temporary position. I think its reasonable to have expected Mr C to 
make some adjustment to his spending while those arrears were being repaid.So, looking at his household expenses that I set out in my provisional decision, with the 
addition of £83pm for the water rates and £30pm for the gym Mr C was paying around 
£1,220pm leaving a disposable income of around £390pm. After paying for this credit 
agreement, Mr C would have been left with a disposable income of £115 plus Child Benefit 
which would make this figure around £205pm. I think on these figures, that AFL would have 
considered this agreement was affordable by Mr C.
Ive seen that Mr C had a default on his credit record at the time he entered into this 
agreement which had a zero balance. And Mr C has provided proof that he also wasnt 
paying his water rates or his council tax but neither of these expenses appeared on the 
credit file provided by AFL. I dont think its likely that Mr C would have told AFL about these 
outstanding liabilities if it had asked him about his outgoings. Mr C was keen to obtain the 
car so I dont think would have wanted to jeopardise his credit application by offering 
information that wasnt made available to AFL in its credit check. I also think it would have 
been reasonable for AFL to presume Mr C was making these payments as he appeared to 
have sufficient income to do so.
I still dont think the presence of the default which had been paid off with nothing owing 
would have meant that this agreement was sustainably unaffordable for Mr C. I think when 
assessing whether Mr C would be able to pay this agreement AFL was entitled to take into 
account that the balance on this account had been cleared. 
Mr C says that the three-year loan he took out in 2012 which was being paid off at the rate of 
£268pm wasnt paid regularly by him as this was a guaranteed loan and top ups were 
regularly taken from the guarantors account. He has provided an email from 2012 which 
warns that a payment may have to be taken from the guarantors account if Mr C doesnt 
clear that monthly payment. However, the credit file doesnt show any missed payments or 
irregularities so I cant say AFL acted unfairly in taking this into account when assessing 
whether Mr C would make payments. As I havent seen evidence that this loan or a part of it 
was actually paid by the guarantor, I think it was reasonable for AFL to have considered that 
Mr C had met all his obligations for this financial agreement and had paid it off shortly before 
taking out this credit agreement which was close to the same monthly payment amount.
Mr C has provided proof of some other financial difficulties he encountered after this 
agreement was taken out, but as these were after Mr C had got in difficulties with this 
agreement, Im not taking those into account. Thats because it appears there was a change 
in Mr Cs circumstances that AFL couldnt have foreseen.
Mr C says he didnt make regular payments under this agreement and while Ive seen the 
very first direct debit payment was unpaid, he did cover that payment by card a few days 
later and then made nine direct debit payments without incident. A payment in January didnt 
clear but was paid a few days later as was the following months payment. So, I think its fair 
to say he was able to pay the agreement over the first year of the agreement. 
Mr C has also raised that AFL has unfairly overcharged him when managing this account but 
looking at this statement I cant see any unfair charges. The terms and conditions of the 
agreement set out when charges will be applied, and I cant see these have been 
misapplied. I think the late fees and management charges have all been applied correctly 
and in line with the agreement. I dont think that AFL has acted unfairly save it should have 
asked more questions about Mr Cs outgoings before approving the credit agreement.
As set out above, Im unclear why Mr C was unable to meet his financial obligation under 
this agreement after the first year though its possibly linked to a period of sickness that 
affected Mr Cs ability to work. However, on the evidence, Im satisfied that at the time Mr C entered into the agreement it was sustainably affordable for him and its more likely than not 
a change of circumstances which was unforeseen by AFL has resulted in him struggling to 
make the payments. 
For the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman