DRN-2413980
The complaint
Mr H and Ms F are unhappy with the mortgage advice they received from a representative of 
Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited in 2020.
For ease, Ill refer to the broker as Quilter throughout this decision, but that should be taken 
to mean the individual mortgage broker where appropriate.
What happened
Mr H and Ms F approached Quilter in March 2020 as their existing preferential mortgage 
interest rate was due to end on 31 October 2020. Quilter said that it was a little early to start 
looking for a new rate as most offers are only valid for six months. 
Mr H and Ms F contacted Quilter again in May. Following that Quilter recommended a 
mortgage with a lender Ill call X, and it provided them with an illustration. Mr H and Ms F say 
they noticed the loan amount was £1,000 lower than they wanted to borrow, and the 1.44% 
rate wasnt fixed for exactly two years, so they contacted Quilter to query it. They say they 
were reassured by Quilter that the details were for illustrative purposes only.
The application was submitted on 22 May, and a mortgage offer was issued by X on 29 May.
Once theyd received the mortgage offer, Mr H and Ms F decided not to proceed and instead 
arranged a new product directly with their existing mortgage lender. 
They then complained and refused to pay the invoice Quilter sent them for its £299 fee. 
Quilter rejected the complaint, saying the advice had been given and so the fee was fairly 
due as Mr H and Ms F had agreed to it when they applied for the mortgage.
Our investigator said he didnt think it was reasonable to tell Quilter to write off the £299 fee 
that was due. Mr H and Ms F didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Ms F have said Quilter should have recommended they stay with their existing 
lender, and by not doing so Quilter was fee hunting.
Quilter sent an email to Mr H in early May when it was looking at the available options and in 
that it mentioned a two-year fixed rate product and a five-year fixed rate product. It said the 
five-year fixed rate product was with Mr H and Ms Fs existing lender, so it seems from this 
that Quilter was willing to recommend their existing lender if it felt that was the most suitable 
product for Mr H and Ms F.
Mr H and Ms F say they queried the mortgage amount and length of the fixed rate when they 
received the illustration and were told it was for illustrative purposes only. But thats not 
supported by the evidence. We have a copy of an email from Quilter saying Yes, it is for 
illustration purposes only. But that was in reply to a different question. Mr H had asked 
(I quote):
Just a quick question on reading the full illustration.
It set out that the new mtge will assume to commence 1st July 2020. I guess this is just for 
illustration purposes, YES?
Theres nothing to indicate Mr H and Ms F queried the loan amount or the length of the fixed 
rate at that stage. They say this was a phone call, but unfortunately theres no mention of 
that call in any of the emails or other messages.
They did, however, query both once they received the formal mortgage offer from X. They 
said they werent happy that theyd only receive the fixed rate for 23 months rather than the 
full 24 months. They also werent happy that their property had been downvalued so they 
could only borrow a maximum of £279,000 whereas they thought their mortgage balance on 
1 November would be about £1,000 higher than that.
Mr H and Ms F say Quilter used the wrong mortgage amount as it applied for a £279,000 
mortgage. But that was covered in an email from Quilter to Mr H on 12 May  based on 
£279,000 (approx balance in October)  That calculation seems reasonable as Mr H and 
Ms F had said they wanted a like-for-like remortgage with no extra borrowing, so Quilter 
needed to work out how much Mr H and Ms F would likely have outstanding on their current 
mortgage at the time the remortgage would complete, which would be 1 November.
In any event, theres no reason why Quilter couldnt have increased that figure slightly if it 
was needed as the figure Mr H and Ms F said their property was worth gave plenty of leeway 
in that. So in itself the mortgage figure wouldnt have made this mortgage advice unsuitable. 
It is unfortunate that their property was downvalued which meant £279,000 was the most 
that X was willing to lend at that interest rate, but that is something that was outside the 
control of Quilter so I cant hold it liable for that.
In terms of the length of the fixed rate some lenders offer rates for a fixed period (eg 24 
monthly payments) whereas others offer them until a set end date (eg 30 September 2022). 
Both are acceptable, and both would be considered to be a two-year fixed rate. I cant see 
anything in the information Mr H and Ms F gave about their circumstances that would 
indicate a 23-month fixed rate product (due to it having a set end date) was unsuitable for 
them, whereas a 24-month fixed rate product would be suitable. It may be Mr H and Ms S 
preferred to take the 24-month fixed rate product, but that doesnt make the advice from 
Quilter (to take the rate with X that would have instead been fixed for 23 months) unsuitable. 
And thats all I can consider here; whether the advice was suitable.
I contacted Mr H and Ms Fs existing lender to ask when the product they applied for on 
27 June was available. Quilter gave its advice in May, with the application submitted to X on 
22 May. Mr H and Ms Fs existing lender has confirmed the 1.44% fixed rate they took didnt 
become available until 28 May, with the rate it was offering before then being much higher at 
1.69%. Quilter could only base its advice on products that were available at the time, and 
had the 1.44% rate been available with Mr H and Ms Fs existing lender I see no reason to 
believe Quilter wouldnt have mentioned it, just like it mentioned the five-year fixed rate 
product offered by Mr H and Ms Fs existing lender. But it couldnt mention it, because at the 
time the advice was given, there was no such product, instead it was priced at 1.69%.
Finally, Mr H and Ms F have said:At this point he was desperately requesting us to sign and complete his 'Authority to 
proceed form' (attached) which we did return, as felt under pressure at the time, despite 
we had months and months before our existing rate was due to expire, he clearly wanted 
to seal this deal and get his commission / fee.
Ive reviewed all the correspondence on file and I cant see anything to support that. In fact, 
the only mention of the form I can find was on 21 May when Quilter emailed Mr H saying:
 
New interest rates come out this morning and you are now saving about £7 per month. 
(£168 over the 2 years) 
I have attached the new quotation and will progress the application in the morning for 
you. 
I have also attached our authority to proceed document for you. Please both sign both 
pages and email back to me.
Mr H and Ms F signed the form and as part of that they agreed to pay the £299 fee for the 
mortgage advice.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Quilter made Mr H and Ms F aware of the £299 
fee, and Im also satisfied that the advice it gave on the mortgage wasnt unsuitable. All 
things considered I can see no reason for me to order Quilter to waive the £299 advice fee 
and so I make no order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H and Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman