DRN-2956490
Complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added 
interest, fees and charges to her overdraft which caused her financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Halifax rework Miss Ms 
account to remove the effect of all the interest fees and charges added to her overdraft from 
July 2015 as it ought to have realised that she struggling to manage her overdraft. 
Halifax accepted our adjudicators view and worked out that Miss Ms outstanding balance 
with the third-party debt purchaser it sold her account to would be cleared and Miss M would 
be paid a surplus amount. But Miss M remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss M wants Halifax should do something different here. She wants the remaining balance 
on her overdraft written off totally because Halifax caused her immense stress and hardship. 
Its not entirely clear what Miss M by the overdraft being totally written off. But as I 
understand it, Miss M wont have an overdraft debt once all adjustments have been made. 
And even if what Miss M actually wants is the outstanding balance to be disregarded from 
any calculation of compensation, as Miss Ms spending also significantly contributed to her 
outstanding balance and therefore any stress and hardship, I dont think its unreasonable for 
any amount owing to be taken into account when deciding any compensation due. 
Ive also thought about what Miss M has said about Halifaxs calculation. But it isnt my role 
to go through the minutiae of a calculation and calculate the precise amount of an award. 
That is the respondent firms job. 
What I need to do is decide whether the proposed method of working out any compensation 
due to Miss M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint. Weve told 
Halifax to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added after its July 2015 overdraft 
review  the first of these charges were added in August 2015. It seems to me that Halifax 
has done this. And I dont think that Miss Ms unhappiness at the amount shell be paid, is in 
itself a compelling reason for me to say Halifax has got it wrong, or that Miss M is entitled to 
more here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss M to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Halifaxs offer.
    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman