DRN-4218298
The complaint
Mr B complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). Mr B is represented by a professional representative (PR).
What happened
In 2008 Mr B and his wife purchased trial membership of a timeshare club I will call C. In 
March 2010 Mr B and his wife upgraded their membership at a net cost of £6,639.29 funded 
by a loan to Mr B from BPF. Although the purchase was made in joint names the loan was 
taken out by Mr B and that means only he can raise a complaint. For simplicity, in this 
decision, I will refer to him as the sole purchaser.
In July 2018 PR made a claim on Mr Bs behalf to BPF. It said there were three main 
grounds:
A claim under s. 75 CCA for breaches of contract, misrepresentation and negligence 
of C.
Liability for procuring a breach of fiduciary duty
An unfair relationship under s.140A CCA.
PR said Mr B had been pressurised into making the purchase and C had made false 
promises. It said that Mr B had been told he could book holidays more easily and he would 
have access to better quality accommodation in exclusive resorts. It said these promises had 
proved to be untrue.
It argued there had been a breach of contract because clauses in Cs Articles of Association 
regarding the length of the contract and management charges had not been individually 
negotiated.
It said that those clauses constituted unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 and so the contract in its entirety is unenforceable.
It said that the BPF had failed in its fiduciary duty by not disclosing the commission it may 
have paid to C. It said that also meant there was an unfair relationship as set out in s.140A 
CCA. It added that C had breached the EU Timeshare Directive in a number of ways and 
BPF had paid C before it should.
Finally, it said that BPF had failed to ensure C abided by lending standards and it failed to 
carry out a sound and proper credit assessment.
BPF issued a lengthy rejection of the claim pointing out that it was made out of time. 
However, it went on to rebut the claim in some detail which I wont repeat here and said the 
sale had been carried out properly. BPF said that it was not clear that a debtor-creditor- 
supplier agreement was in place since payment had been made to an intermediary.
PR brought a complaint to this service which was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that the complaint had been brought in time, but the 
claim under s.75 was made out of time. As for the claim under s.140A she said from the 
information she had been given there was no basis for a conclusion that there had been an 
unfair relationship.
PR didnt agree and said another decision made by this service had concluded there had 
been unfair terms concerning charges in a contract for a different product sold by C. PR said 
that this view should also apply to the type of product bought by Mr B. It subsequently 
suggested that it was concerned about the way finance was sold to its clients including Mr B 
and requested that this service put a list of questions to BPF and refer the answer back to 
PR.
Our investigator added to her earlier view and said she had seen little or no evidence that 
the lending had been unaffordable for Mr B and she had seen no reason to conclude BPF 
had breached any duty by making a payment of commission. She also explained that it was 
up to this service to decide what information was needed to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
PR has sent us a considerable amount of information and submissions in an effort to explain 
what it thinks the outcome of this complaint should be. However, as this service is designed 
to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts, my role as an ombudsman isnt to 
address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr B) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
In this case it has been disputed as to whether the required agreement is in place as BPF 
has suggested the payment was made to another company. My understanding is that the 
company receiving the payment and C are connected and that means s. 75 has effect, but I 
make no finding on that point since it is not material to my decision
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr B made like claims against BPF under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for those 
claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 5.145 
of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would have 
been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation.
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr B had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claim.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr B entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of C.
And as the finance from BPF in 2010 was used to help pay for the purchases, it was when 
he entered into the credit agreements that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in March 2010  which means that, at 
the latest, he had six years from when he entered into the relevant credit agreements to 
make his claims. But as he didnt do that until July 2018, and as I cant see a reason why the 
limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, his claims are likely to have 
been too late. And for that reason, I think BPF has a defence to them under the LA.
The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr B and BPF were 
unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies 
to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s.140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years. I have not been told if the loan 
has been repaid or part of it is still outstanding. However, it was for a period of 180 months, 
and BPF has not suggested the claim under s.140A was made out of time so I am satisfied 
to proceed on the basis it was made in time.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr B could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against BPF anyway.
Mr Bs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that BPF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mr B could afford to repay 
what he was borrowing.
PR seems to suggest that, because C was BPFs statutory agent under s. 56 of the CCA, 
BPF owed Mr B a duty of care to ensure that C complied with the 1992 Act. And PR says 
that BPF breached that duty by failing to carry out  before granting Mr B credit and paying 
C  the due diligence necessary to ensure that the product purchased by Mr B wasnt sold 
by C in breach of the 1992 Act.
However, English law recognises that there cant be a duty of care owed to everyone, in 
every situation and against all forms of harm. And there are legal tests to ascertain whether 
a duty of care is owed to someone in a given situation. They are:
1. A three-stage test set down in Caparo Industries v Dickman [1990]  which asks whether:
i. The damage was foreseeable.
ii. There was a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties.
iii. Its fair, just and reasonable in all the circumstances to impose a duty of care.
2. The assumption of responsibility test in Henderson v Merrett Syndicates Ltd [1995], 
which was concerned with whether the defendant had taken on the responsibility of 
exercising reasonable care and skill towards the claimant.
3. Situations in which a duty of care was owed to the claimant by the defendant because 
such a duty had already been established by the courts.
Yet despite PRs lengthy submissions, it hasnt persuaded me with reference to any of these 
tests or relevant authorities that the lender owed the debtor and the purchaser of a
timeshare a duty of care to ensure that the product they were purchasing wasnt sold by C in 
breach of a relevant regulation  particularly one that imposed a criminal sanction.
PR also seems to suggest that Mr B had a cause in negligence against BPF because it 
breached the 1992 Act directly by making payments to C during Mr Bs withdrawal period.
But, in my view, it wasnt possible for BPF to breach the 1992 Act.And on my reading of the legislation, it was only C  or its agent  who could breach it. After 
all, it was only a timeshare provider or its agent who could enter into a timeshare agreement 
in the course of business.
As things stand, therefore, I cant see why any of Mr Bs claims were likely to have 
succeeded.
Commission
I know PR says that Mr B has concerns about undisclosed commission. But had such a 
payment been made to C by BPF, I havent seen anything to suggest BPF would have 
breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything to suggest it was under a regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Whats more, as I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like the supplier 
in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%.
So, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely that the levels of 
commission normally paid in situations like the one in question were high enough to put BPF 
on notice that not disclosing commission to Mr B risked making their debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair.
The Purchase Agreement
PRs argument that the purchase agreement was null and void was framed as giving rise to 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s. 140A.
However, providing credit or otherwise being a creditor under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services Compulsory 
Jurisdiction in December 2008. As the PRs argument here is to suggest that the credit 
agreement couldnt and shouldnt have been enforced by BPF because the associated 
purchase agreements were unenforceable, Ive considered the argument separately to Mr 
Bs s. 140A claims.
Its possible that the purchase agreements entered into by Mr B in March 2010 failed to 
comply with the information requirements in the 1992 Act. But nowhere in that Act (nor the 
European Directive 94/47/EC) can I see that a purchase agreement could be rescinded by a 
consumer if the information in question wasnt provided. And thats both a relevant and 
important consideration here as, generally speaking, a purchase agreement isnt rescindable 
simply because it  or part of it  was or became unenforceable.
The legal basis on which PR makes its argument here isnt entirely clear as it hasnt drawn 
my attention to any general points of law or authorities that deal with the situation in which a 
supply contract was/is unenforceable against the consumer.
I recognise that it was held by the Supreme Court in Durkin v DSG Retail [2014] UKSC 21 
(Durkin) that, if a debtor rescinds a supply contract that they have the right to rescind, they 
can also rescind a credit agreement whose purpose had been to finance the debtors entry 
into that supply contract.
The legal mechanism by which this occurs is an implied term that deems the credit 
agreement contingent on the survival of the supply contract.
But, in the absence of any case law, I dont think the decision in Durkin can be said to have 
any application in a situation in which a supply contract was/is unenforceable against the 
consumer. An unenforceable purchase agreement under the 1992 Act is very different from one that the consumer is entitled to rescind. And even when the unenforceability of a 
purchase agreement is invoked by a consumer to support a CCA claim (as here), Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that it equates to terminating the contract, let alone unwinding it 
from the start.
So, the fact that the purchase agreement entered into by Mr B might have been (and still 
might be) unenforceable against him has very different legal consequences to those which 
flow from the rescission of a supply contract. Any attempt to apply Durkin here would require 
a considerable extension of its reasoning by the courts. And for that reason and those 
above, Im not currently persuaded that this is a reason to uphold this complaint.
As for the issue of charges PR has referenced another decision by this service without 
identifying it fully or setting out the reasons as to why the complaint should be upheld. It 
simply says that charges in the agreement Mr B signed were unfair without giving any 
details.
The Lending Decision
While PR says that Mr B suffered detriment because the right checks werent carried out 
before BPF lent to him, very little has been said about this particular allegation. And even if I 
were to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr B 
before also concluding that he lost out as a result. As I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that was the case, I dont currently think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF said it had no further comments and PR did not respond so my provisional decision 
stands unaltered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman