DRN-3428378
The complaint
Mr E complained because Bank of Scotland plc refused to cancel a credit card debt which 
he said he hadnt incurred.
Mr E wanted the debt cancelled, an apology, the debt removed from his credit history, and 
compensation.
What happened
In 2014, Mr E let out his property to tenants, and moved abroad. He returned in 2019, and 
discovered from correspondence to his home address that a County Court Judgment had 
been filed against his name. He checked his credit file, and discovered that a number of 
credit accounts had been opened in his name while hed been abroad.  
One of these was a credit card with Bank of Scotland. This had been opened in January 
2016 in Mr Es name, and had a balance of just over £4,000.  
Mr E wrote to Bank of Scotland in January 2020, saying that it appeared that a fraudulent 
account had been opened in his name. He said hed been abroad, which his passport could 
prove, which he thought should be enough to prove fraud.
Bank of Scotland replied on 3 February, saying that after careful consideration it believed the 
application had been genuine and had been made by Mr E, so he remained liable for the 
balance.
Mr E complained on 11 February. He said that apart from the tone of Bank of Scotlands 
letter, he assumed they were aware of GDPR? And hed reported a crime, and didnt Bank of 
Scotland take fraud seriously?
Bank of Scotland sent its final response letter on 26 February. It said it was unable to agree 
that it had acted incorrectly and could see no banking error. The letter went on to explain 
that it carried out checks based on any internal information, and data from the credit 
reference agencies. Its fraud team had carried out a full investigation and couldnt accept 
that Mr Es account wasnt a genuine application.
Bank of Scotland also explained that it wasnt required to provide reasoning, or provide any 
sensitive information. This would be made available to the police, if they asked for it.  But 
Bank of Scotland considered the balance on the account to be Mr Es and said he was fully 
liable for it.
Mr E complained to this service. The investigator asked both Mr E and Bank of Scotland for 
more information, and she then upheld Mr Es complaint. She said that Bank of Scotland 
should remove the account from Mr Es records; remove any adverse markers from his 
credit file; refund with 8% interest any payments Mr E might have made himself towards the 
balance; and pay £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Bank of Scotland accepted the investigators view.
But Mr E wasnt satisfied. He said he hadnt yet had confirmation that his credit file had been 
corrected. And he said £300 compensation was comical and didnt compensate him for all 
the trouble hed had.  He said that while this service imposed such small fines on banks, 
theyd keep doing what they want. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides agree that, as a starting point here, Bank of Scotland should remove the account 
from Mr Es records and remove any adverse markers from his credit file. The only 
outstanding issue I have to decide is the amount of compensation, which Mr E feels isnt 
enough. So Ive focused on whether or not £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.
Looking at the evidence which Bank of Scotland had when the account was opened, and the 
evidence it had when Mr E first complained in 2020, I can understand why Bank of Scotland 
took the decisions it did. I recognise that Mr E has said he suffered considerable upset as a 
result of the account being opened fraudulently. But its only fair to hold Bank of Scotland 
responsible for actions which it took  not for the upset which was ultimately caused by any 
fraudster. 
Here, I dont think Bank of Scotlands actions were unfair. It had no reason to suspect the 
account had been opened fraudulently. It replied to Mr Es complaint promptly. And on the 
limited information provided by Mr E, I consider its decision wasnt unreasonable.
Finally, Mr E has talked about this service fining Bank of Scotland. This service doesnt fine 
or punish banks  thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
Our role is to consider individual complaints to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
So I dont agree that Bank of Scotland should pay Mr E more compensation than the £300 it 
has already agreed to pay.
Our investigator had said that if Mr E had made any payments to the outstanding balance, 
these should be refunded to him with 8% interest on the amount I due. I dont disagree with 
this in principle, so I asked Bank of Scotland whether Mr E had made any payments, so this 
final decision could be specific. But Bank of Scotland confirmed that the only payment had 
been in February 2016. This couldnt have been paid by Mr E, because in his complaint form 
to us, he asked for information about the account which had credited the account. If it had 
been his own account and hed paid it himself, hed have known. So there are no payments 
to be refunded with 8% interest.
Mr E also told us that his credit file hasnt yet been corrected. I asked Bank of Scotland 
about this, too. It said that missed payments would still show on the credit file until after this 
final decision. I consider thats reasonable, and its included in my final decision below.My final decision
My final decision is that, in line with Bank of Scotlands acceptance of the investigators view, 
I uphold this complaint and I order Bank of Scotland plc to:
- close the account with a nil balance;
- remove any adverse credit markers relating to this account from Mr Es credit file;
- pay Mr E £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman