DRN-2842052
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly reported a default on her credit file.  
What happened
Ms M had a joint HSBC savings account. In October 2019, HSBC deducted some money 
from the savings account, leaving the account with a negative balance. This went unnoticed 
because the savings account wasnt regularly used.
In November 2019, HSBC closed the savings account and applied a default to Ms Ms credit 
file. Ms M only became aware of this in January 2021, when her application for a mortgage 
with another bank was declined on the basis that there was a default on her credit file. Ms M 
wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Ms Ms complaint. They acknowledged that the, given that the account was 
a savings account, a default should never have been recorded, and they gave instructions to 
the credit reference agencies to remove the default from Ms Ms credit file as though it had 
never been recorded. However, there was some confusion with one of the credit reference 
agencies which meant that it took several weeks for the removal of the default to be properly 
actioned. 
HSBC acknowledged that Ms M had incurred distress and inconvenience as a result of what 
had happened and offered to make a payment of £500 to Ms M to compensate her for this. 
But Ms M didnt feel that HSBCs offer went far enough, so she referred her complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also didnt feel that HSBCs offer of 
compensation sufficiently recognised the trouble and upset that Ms M had experienced here, 
so they recommended that HSBC increase the compensation amount to £750.
HSBC agreed to the recommendation made by our investigator, but Ms M remained 
dissatisfied. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC dont dispute that they made an error here and that the default should never have 
been recorded by them on Mrs Ms credit file. HSBC also dont dispute that Ms M incurred 
substantial upset and inconvenience because of what took place.
What is disputed here is whether the suggested compensation amount of £750 
recommended by our investigator represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, and Im aware that Ms M feels that a higher amount is warranted in these 
circumstances, especially given that she incurred delays in obtaining a mortgage and feels 
that the mortgage she was able to obtain wasnt on as beneficial terms as might otherwise 
have been the case.
Matters of compensation can be an emotive issue, with an offer considered fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by another. But it must be 
remembered that the role of this service isnt to punish or fine businesses in any way, but 
rather to ensure that a resolution to a complaint is reached that is fair, in light of all of the 
circumstances of that complaint.
In this instance its clear that HSBC recognised and acknowledged that a mistake had been 
made and then attempted to rectify that mistake. And while there was a delay with one of the 
credit reference agencies following some confusion and misunderstanding between HSBC 
and that credit reference agency, Im not convinced that this delay can reasonably be 
considered as being something for which HSBC should be thought solely responsible for.
What is unquestionable is that Ms M did incur a substantial amount of trouble and distress in 
trying to resolve this matter, and Im aware that she spent considerable time on the 
telephone with HSBC without much success. Additionally, its easy to understand how 
worrying this incident must have been to Ms M with regard her attempts to secure a 
mortgage while the stamp duty holiday was still in force  and Im pleased that Ms M was 
ultimately able to agree a mortgage and take advantage of the stamp duty holiday.
In circumstances such as this - where a business has made an error the consequences of 
which have caused distress and inconvenience to its customer - it would be expected by this 
service that the business would agree to pay fair and reasonable of compensation to that 
customer, given whats taken place.
Ultimately, I think that by agreeing to the payment of £750 compensation as recommended 
by our investigator, HSBC have done that here. And while I can understand that Ms M might 
feel that this compensation amount doesnt go far enough, £750 does feel fair to me, and I 
note that its commensurate with what this service would expect in circumstances such as 
these.
It follows then that Ill be upholding this complaint and instructing HSBC to make a payment 
of £750 to Ms M. I realise that this might not be the outcome that Ms M was wanting here, 
but I hope she can understand, given what I ve explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.    
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £750 to Ms M to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience she has incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman