DRN-3213904
The complaint
Mr T complains that a used car Moneybarn No.1 Limited supplied under a finance 
agreement is of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr T got this car with a conditional sale agreement (CSA) provided by Moneybarn in April 
2020. The car broke down a month later and the repairs required were covered by a 
warranty (although Mr T had to make up a shortfall). Then, in November 2020, the car broke 
down again. 
The breakdown service that recovered the vehicle thought there was an issue with the 
exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve. Mr T had the car checked by a third party garage 
(TPG) and he was told repairs would cost about £10,000 so he complained to Moneybarn, in 
December 2020. Mr T thinks the car was of unsatisfactory quality when he got it. He paid to 
have the turbo replaced in January 2021 but this didnt resolve matters. He wants 
Moneybarn to refund over £2,000 for repair costs and pay for a new engine to be fitted.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent expert to inspect the car. He thought further 
investigation was needed to identify what went wrong but he was satisfied that any faults 
present wouldnt have been there when Mr T got the car. Moneybarn didnt think it needed to 
do anything else in the circumstances and rejected Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T felt that was unfair so he referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators 
looked at the evidence. She accepts the car has a fault but shes not persuaded this was 
likely to have been there at the outset - given the time that passed and distance travelled 
before the problem appeared. She notes the independent expert found it unlikely the fault 
was there when Mr T acquired the car  and thought it was more likely caused by wear and 
tear. Shes satisfied (on balance) that the car was probably of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. She didnt think it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to do anything else. So, she 
doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr T remains unhappy. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He says (in 
summary), the handbrake actuator had to be replaced soon after he got the car - and the 
warranty only covered part of the cost. Then he had to spend over £2,000 to have the turbo 
replaced in January 2021. He feels the supplying dealer has never been of any help - he 
was told theyd fix cameras that havent worked since he got the car, but this never 
happened. He considers a car of this price, age and mileage shouldnt need a new engine so 
soon. He wants Moneybarn to pay for the car to be fixed and refund the cost of repairs 
undertaken already. 
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to give 
the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond if they wanted to before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2021. Ive set out 
what I decided provisionally - and why  below. This forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Moneybarn supplied this car to Mr T under a CSA and it was required - under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - to ensure (amongst other things) that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on 
individual circumstances. But, in the case of a used car, I think its generally reasonable to 
take the age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into account.
The car Mr T got here was around six years old, cost about £12,500 and had around 
118,000 miles on the clock. As such, I think a reasonable person would accept that some 
parts would be worn and likely need to be repaired or replaced sooner or later  which is 
reflected in the lower price paid for a used car compared to the price of a brand new vehicle.
There seems to be no dispute that the car broke down in November 2020, after Mr T had 
driven it just over 7,000 miles. Ive seen a report from the breakdown service that attended at 
the time. This says the car would start up and run but mis-fired and would not rev. A scan 
found stored faults which the engineer cleared, but this didnt help and the engineer 
concluded that the off side EGR valve was sticking.
Im not entirely clear about what happened next. Ive seen an invoice from a TPG that shows 
the turbo was replaced in January 2021 at a cost of over £2,300. It seems this work was 
done after a different TPG diagnosed the issue but I dont have any further information that 
explains what either TPG found  such as job cards or a condition report. I havent seen the 
cars service history either. And I have no reason to think that the car had any related issues 
in the past. I have checked the MOT history and Im satisfied that nothing relevant was found 
at the MOT in April 2020  when Id expect the vehicles emissions to have been checked, 
amongst other things. Ive also checked the cars registration with the DVSA and I cant see 
any relevant manufacturers recalls.
I think it was fair of Moneybarn to arrange for an expert to inspect the car in these 
circumstances. Im satisfied the expert is independent and he seems to have relevant 
qualifications and experience. I think its reasonable to give some weight to what he says in 
this situation. The expert saw the car in March 2021 when he was able to start it - but it didnt 
run for long. I note the expert records the same 124,987 miles on the clock as the invoice 
from the TPG in January 2021  which suggests those repairs were unsuccessful and the 
car wasnt driveable after that. 
I accept the expert was unable to identify whats wrong with the car exactly. He says further 
tests would be needed to do that. But, I think he seems to have carried out a fairly thorough 
inspection. I can see he ran relevant diagnostic checks that didnt reveal any current or 
pending fault codes. And he didnt identify any relevant longstanding issues from historic 
faults found in the cars memory. Im satisfied the expert concluded that any faults present 
are probably due to general in- service wear and deterioration and these are unlikely to have 
been there when the car was supplied to Mr T. 
On the current evidence, I see no reasonable grounds to disagree with the experts 
conclusions. I understand its disappointing when a used car like this has fault - especially 
when relatively expensive repairs are needed. And I realise Mr T feels its unfair that he has 
to pay for repairs to a car that cost as much as this one when he only had it for about seven months before it broke down. 
Im satisfied however that this car had already travelled around 118,000 miles by the time Mr 
T acquired it. I think its likely to have accrued a fair amount of wear and tear in that time  
which is one risk of acquiring a used vehicle with a relatively high mileage. I can see that Mr 
T was able to travel another 7,000 miles or so before the car broke down in November 2020. 
And, on balance, I think its unlikely he would have been able to do that if the current fault 
had been present when he got the car. 
Ive given some thought to what Mr T says about the problem he had with the handbrake 
early on. As far as I can see, that was repaired successfully under the warranty - which Mr T 
appears to have accepted at the time. I dont think this issue is likely to be linked to whats 
wrong with the car now. And I cant reasonably conclude it means any current faults were 
present or developing at the outset.
For the reasons Ive explained, I can only hold Moneybarn liable for faults that Im satisfied 
are likely to have been present when this car was supplied. Based on the evidence provided 
so far, I dont think its likely that any current faults were there at the outset. Im not 
persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to conclude that this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied in these circumstances. And Im unable to require 
Moneybarn to pay for repairs or do anything else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited Mr T and Moneybarn to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or new evidence that they would like me to consider by 30 November 2021 - 
explaining that I would look at all the evidence available after that date and make my final 
decision.
Moneybarn hasnt provided any further submissions. Mr T is unhappy with my provisional 
findings. He feels it is wrong that he could be supplied with a car of this age and mileage 
without being warned of the risks. The investigator explained that it was open to Mr T to 
obtain and/or provide further evidence if he wanted to, but he hasnt sent us anything else or 
asked for more time to do so. 
Nothing thats been said has persuaded me to change my mind. For the reasons Ive 
explained above, I cant hold Moneybarn responsible for faults unless Im satisfied they are 
likely to have been present when the car was supplied. From the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded it is likely that any current faults were present when Mr T got this car. I cant fairly 
find the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply in the circumstances. 
Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint 
so Im unable to require Moneybarn to pay for repairs or do anything else. I realise this 
decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr T, as its not the outcome he hoped for. 
Mr T doesnt have to accept my decision, in which case it remains open to him to pursue the 
matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman