DRN-2847089
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC returned their cheque unpaid 
which then highlighted further administrative and service issues.
What happened
Mr P issued a cheque for £25,000 on 11 May 2020 payable to a third party. The cheque 
related to a new investment. 
On 19 May 2020, three unannounced telephone calls were received. One to Mr Ps mobile 
phone, one to Mrs Ps mobile phone and one to their home landline. On each occasion, Mr P 
said that he and Mrs P didnt have the opportunity to answer the calls. No messages were 
left and there were no details of who the callers were.
Late on 19 May 2020, Mr P checked his account using his mobile phone application. He 
noticed that his cheque had been returned unpaid. So, Mr P attempted to contact Barclays, 
that evening, without success.
On 20 May 2020, Mr P spoke to his account manager at Barclays. He wanted to know why 
the cheque hadnt been paid. Mr P wanted him to provide contact details for the manager 
whod made the decision to return his cheque. His account manager agreed to make 
enquiries.
Mr P rang Barclays again on 21 May 2020 to arrange an electronic payment in place of his 
cheque. But the daily amount limit was £15,000. So, Barclays made a payment of £15,000 
for him.
Mr P rang Barclays again on 22 May 2020 and arranged for a further electronic payment of 
£10,000. On the same day, Mr P received a letter from Barclays confirming that his cheque 
had been returned. They said that the cheque is not signed in accordance with your 
signature mandate.
Over the course of the next few days, Mr Ps Barclays account manager remained in contact 
with him. But he wasnt able to obtain more details about what was wrong with the cheque or 
provide a contact for Mr P to speak to.
Over the following days and weeks, there were various exchanges between Mr P and his 
account manager at Barclays. But Mr P couldnt get answers to the questions that he had. 
His account manager suggested that Mr P raise a complaint.
Mr P remained unhappy with Barclays lack of response. So, on 22 June 2020, Mr P wrote to 
Barclays to complain about his experience. He highlighted, what he considered to be, flaws 
in Barclays systems and processes and their failure to provide an adequate explanation and 
resolution. 
Mr P said that the signature on his cheque matched the one on his debit card and he 
couldnt understand why this cheque had been returned when others had been paid. He also 
wanted Barclays to confirm whether the calls he received on 19 May 2020 were from them 
and, if so, their purpose. He was unhappy that no messages or return telephone number 
was available.
Mr P also told Barclays he was unhappy with how theyd dealt with the matter which meant 
his account manager wasnt able to provide details of a contact within Barclays, as hed 
requested.
Mr P raised questions about Barclays processes and procedures and made suggestions as 
to how they could be improved. He also requested a copy of the signing mandate so that he 
could check the signature they held.
After chasing in writing and by telephone on several occasions and in the absence of a 
satisfactory response, Mr P decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Mr P then received a letter from Barclays dated 18 August 2020 in response to his 
complaint. They apologised and upheld his complaint about the service hed experienced. 
They explained why thered been a delay in his complaint being logged and looked at. They 
also confirmed that the signature on his cheque hadnt matched the one they held  which 
dated back to 2003. They suggested calling into a branch to provide a new signature 
sample. They explained that cheques are examined at random so each one wouldnt 
necessarily be looked at. Barclays said that they were unable to provide a copy of the 
signing mandate for security reasons. 
Barclays confirmed that the calls received on 19 March 2020 were from them, but messages 
and a contact number were not left as Barclays back office teams do not take inbound calls. 
They confirmed that theyd credited Mr P & Mr Ps account with £100 for any distress and 
inconvenience resulting from the service theyd experienced.
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint. He 
didnt think that Barclays needed to do anything more here. But Mr P disagreed. 
Mr P referenced, what he believed to be, a number of failings by Barclays relating to their 
systems and processes which had not been addressed. He thought that these should be 
considered further. Mr P thought the compensation paid by Barclays was inadequate relative 
to similar published complaint outcomes. He thought that Barclays had been negligent in not 
ensuring his details were up to date  specifically a copy of his signature.
So, Mr P asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mrs 
P and Mr Ps complaint here. Im aware that our investigator has explained this clearly to Mr 
P previously. But, for completeness, I want to include this ahead of my decision.
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements 
on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of 
the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mrs P and Mr Ps experience with them. When considering their complaint, 
Ive also considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their 
handbook  where they apply. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service.From the information Ive seen, Mr Ps cheque was reviewed by Barclays, when it was 
presented for payment. As part of this process, they checked the signature on the cheque 
against the sample they held. They believed, at the time, there were differences between 
those signatures, sufficient for them to question the authenticity of the cheque. This decision 
wouldve been made in order to protect Mrs P, Mr P and the bank against any potential 
fraudulent transaction. So, although Mrs P and Mr P may disagree, I believe that Barclays 
were trying to act in the best interests of their customer.
Ive seen a copy of the cheque and the sample signature that Barclays hold. There do 
appear to be some small differences. But the decision was Barclays and its not for me to 
question that decision. They were clearly not comfortable in accepting the signature on that 
cheque on that day. That is a business decision for Barclays.
Barclays attempted to telephone Mrs P and Mr P using three different contact numbers. I 
believe this was the right thing to do in these circumstances. But each attempt was 
unsuccessful. Mr P suggests that the call attempts were short and didnt provide he or Mrs P 
time to answer them. He also said that an answering service commences immediately a call 
is made. So, I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible if they chose to end their calls 
because they were immediately diverted to an answer service. Barclays wouldve had no 
control over this.
Barclays said they didnt leave a message or contact number for Mrs P or Mr P in each 
instance. This is because the call originated from their back-office staff who do not take 
incoming calls. This is common among many businesses. These departments often dont 
have incoming external telephone lines and arent staffed to receive external calls. So, I can 
understand why Barclays said and did this. But I also understand why Mrs P and Mr P would 
be frustrated by this.
Barclays then wrote to Mrs P and Mr P to tell them what had happened. Again, this is what I 
would expect. But they didnt receive this letter until 22 May 2020. So, Mr P contacted his 
account manager in the meantime. This appears to be a reasonable response, but It 
appears that the Barclays account manager was having limited success in getting more 
information from within the business. This meant that he couldnt quickly provide the 
information that Mr P had requested. So, I can completely understand Mr Ps annoyance and 
frustration here. 
Mr P has confirmed that he was able to complete the funds transfers for their new 
investment electronically. He did this by making calls to Barclays on two separate days. So, 
Im pleased that this aspect was ultimately resolved.
Ive read Mr Ps original letter to Barclays dated 22 June 2020. Barclays notes show that the 
complaint wasnt formally registered until 28 July 2020. They suggest that the complaint 
letter was originally sent by email. Due to the emailed format, it appears that there were 
delays in the complaint being passed on to the correct department, due to Barclays 
processes. Its clear that this added further frustration to an already difficult situation, and I 
can completely understand Mrs P and Mr Ps annoyance here.
Mr Ps complaint letter addresses, what he believes to be, a number of flaws in Barclays 
procedures and policies. But as Ive already explained, these fall outside of the 
responsibilities of this service. So, Im unable to comment specifically on these aspects. I 
can only consider whether these were applied fairly and reasonably.
I do agree with Mrs P and Mr P that Barclays couldve handled the situation better. 
Particularly as it seems Barclays appeared unable to address their concerns and questions 
promptly. Its important to recognise that Im unable to review Barclays complaint process as 
this isnt a regulated activity. However, I agree that the service experienced by Mrs P and Mr 
P couldve been better.Barclays have acknowledged this in their letter of 18 August 2020. They apologised and also 
recognised any inconvenience or distress that this has caused by crediting Mrs P and Mr 
Ps account with £100. I believe this is an appropriate response given the circumstances of 
their complaint, and the award is at a level that I believe is reasonable. 
I do understand that Mr P doesnt agree here, particularly given the time hes invested into 
pursuing their complaint. Ive considered Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint on its own merits and 
whilst appreciating their strength of feeling, I shant be asking Barclays to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman