The complaint
Mr S says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr S says the lending was unaffordable 
for him and led to him having to borrow further. He got into a spiral of debt as a result which 
only worsened his already poor financial situation.     
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr S between September 
2016 and July 2019. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 29/09/2016 23/03/2017 6 £350.00 £102.54
2 24/03/2017 22/07/2017 6 £325.00 £97.04
3 22/07/2017 24/10/2017 12 £625.00 £95.16
4 24/10/2017 23/10/2018 12 £1,250.00 £189.03
5 22/07/2019 26/07/2019 3 £200.00 £100.56
6 26/07/2019 Outstanding 3 £150.00 £73.73
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given as it looked as though Mr S was struggling to make the 
repayments. Our adjudicator also explained, despite the break between loans four and five, 
why they considered the lending to be one chain. 
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
DRN-1291675complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr S had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. I should first clarify that I dont think there was a break in the lending between loan four being 
repaid and loan five being taken. I appreciate there was a gap of around nine months but 
MYJARs own records show that during this break Mr S had 11 failed loan applications. So, 
Im satisfied there was a continuous relationship between MYJAR and Mr S and I will be 
treating the lending as one chain. 
When Mr S returned for additional borrowing at loan four, he had already been borrowing 
from MYJAR continuously for over a year. And the pattern of that borrowing would suggest 
that he was having problems managing his money. As soon as he paid off one loan, he 
would return the next day for more borrowing. I note that this more or less doubled for loan 
three, and for double the term of the loan  12-months compared to the earlier six-month 
terms  and the amount borrowed doubled again at the loan four application. 
And like the adjudicator, I think it was clear that the monthly loan repayments for loan four 
were unaffordable for Mr S. According to the figures recorded by MYJAR, and after 
deducting Mr Ss current expenditure from his income, this would only have left him with a 
disposable income each month of £167. The highest monthly repayment for loan four was 
£189 so it was clearly unaffordable.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four to six as I dont think they should have 
been given after taking into account what Mr Ss borrowing pattern suggested and what 
MYJAR knew about his income and expenditure. MYJAR should put things right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ss loan six has been transferred to a third party 
MYJAR should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant buy the loan back, then it needs to 
work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then MYJAR should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loans four to 
six.                                                                                                                              * HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr S still has an outstanding balance due, then MYJAR should try 
and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr S in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15July2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman