DRN-2645792
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2000. 
Ms M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to NBS throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought NBSs subsequent offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Ms M paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided NBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Ms M made no allegation about her not consenting to the policy. She acknowledges the PPI 
was discussed between her and NBS and that such a policy was set up for her. My 
experience of these NBS sales is that she would have been asked to give her consent at the 
mortgage interview. Her main points of complaint revolve around the suitability of the PPI.
However, theres no evidence NBS recommended the PPI to Ms M as part of an advised 
sale, and again, this corresponds with my experience of these particular sales. So Im afraid 
it was for Ms M herself to check that the PPI was right for her. NBSs responsibility was to 
provide information that was clear enough for Ms M to make an informed choice.
There is only limited information left from the actual sale, which was back in 2000. Its 
certainly possible the information NBS gave to Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been but I think she knew the policy was in existence and shed bought it after 
being told the main features of the cover. I see we have access to the schedule Ms M was 
given, which outlined brief details about the PPI, including the cost.
In my view, the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what Ms M probably thought she was buying 
from the information she was most likely given at the point of sale, and there was nothing 
about her employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for her to claim. It 
also looks like it was affordable for her and as the mortgage was insured against Ms Ms 
home, it could have been useful if something went wrong. There were no onerous conditions 
attached to certain medical conditions, as alleged by her representative. We were told Ms M 
had suffered an injury in 1990, but as this was 10 years prior to the sale I dont think it 
changes anything as theres no information suggesting it was still a problem in 2000. 
Because of all this, I dont think Ms M would have declined the cover even if NBS could have 
done a better job at explaining it.
Ms Ms representative has raised a number of specific complaint points about the policy not 
being suitable for her, including that she already enjoyed some sick pay with her job. They 
also said she had death in service benefit. However, having sick pay doesnt necessarily 
mean the PPI wasnt of use. And as Ive pointed out, as a non-advised sale the decision 
about insuring her mortgage was wholly for Ms M to make. Also, having death in service 
benefit doesnt conflict with having PPI as they covered different things.
Ms Ms representative has also raised a number of what I consider to be other general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
This means NBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?NBS didnt tell Ms M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
NBS and Ms M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
NBS didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think NBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Ms Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act.
In summary they have said Ms M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: NBS failed to tell Ms M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms M wouldnt have taken out the policy had she 
known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the premiums 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Ms M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by NBS not disclosing the high level of 
commission before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Ms Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for NBSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for NBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Ms M paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Ms M with the policy Ive concluded 
above she would still have taken out if NBS had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that NBSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Ms M an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). I understand it has already done this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman