DRN-3449582
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare membership with a timeshare provider (Business 
A) for the price of £21,266. They took out a joint loan for £18,484.85 with GE Money to pay 
for the majority of the purchase. The term of the loan was 182 months, but they repaid it 
early, in February 2009. 
Mr and Mrs B made a previous complaint to GE Money under section 75 of the CCA about 
the mis-sale and later cancellation of their timeshare, which was also considered by this 
service and so wont be commented on again in this decision. 
In 2017 Mrs B raised another complaint about GE Money in relation to the timeshare 
purchase. She said that an unfair relationship had arisen under the CCA because of the 
relationship GE Money had with Business A, and because they made a secret payment of 
commission to Business A. She felt their joint loan agreement with GE Money was unfair on 
this basis, and asked GE Money to refund the amount they borrowed, with interest.
In response, GE Money said that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was time-barred under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). Mrs B remained unhappy with their response, so she asked our 
service to investigate her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think GE Money acted unfairly 
in declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim under the CCA as regards whether the payment of 
commission caused an unfair relationship. He considered the relevant law (the LA) and 
explained his view that Mr and Mrs B had six years from the date their credit agreement with 
GE Money ended to raise a claim under section 140A of the CCA. This meant they would 
have needed to raise their claim about the commission by February 2015. So, the claim 
Mrs B raised in 2017 was made out of time. 
Mrs B disagreed and asked for her case to be looked at by an ombudsman. She explained 
that Business A told her to re-mortgage her home to repay the loan early, which she did  
and now she still owes this money as she has an interest only mortgage. She feels GE 
Money breached the CCA when it allowed them to obtain a loan for a product they didnt 
receive and gained commission to do so. Mrs B also provided further information relating to 
a Spanish Court judgement, which she felt supported her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr and Mrs B, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr and Mrs Bs claim under section 75 of the CCA
Mr and Mrs B previously made a claim against GE Money for a refund of the funds they 
paid for the timeshare under section 75 of the CCA, on the basis of an alleged breach of 
contract or misrepresentation on the part of Business A - for which GE Money could be 
held equally liable. Another ombudsman issued a final decision on that matter, so I 
cannot reconsider or comment on this part of their complaint in this decision. The only 
matter I will comment on is Mr and Mrs Bs claim under section 140A of the CCA. 
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Mrs B said that the commission GE Money paid to Business A caused an unfair relationship 
under section 140A of the CCA. She feels GE Money should refund the money they paid for 
the membership on this basis, with interest.
Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with 
a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the 
creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make 
such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account. 
However, if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the 
section 140A claim. So, I also have to take the relevant time limits under the LA into 
account. 
I should make it clear that Im not deciding if any right Mr and Mrs B may have to bring 
these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision 
Im considering if GE Money acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and 
Mrs Bs section 140A claim.
It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A 
of the CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement 
ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. GE Money has shown that 
Mr and Mrs Bs loan agreement was settled in February 2009. The relevant limitation 
period under the LA is six years from that date, so Mr and Mrs B would have had to bring 
an action by February 2015. As they didnt make their section 140A claim until 2017, I think 
they brought their claim too late. This means I dont think GE Money acted unfairly in their 
response to Mr and Mrs Bs section 140A claim. So, I dont think it needs to do anything 
further. 
Ive also considered whether there would be any grounds to extend the limitation period in 
respect of Mr and Mrs Bs claim in relation to any unfairness they say was created by 
undisclosed commission. However, as the investigator explained, the commission paid by 
GE Money amounted to just under 4% of the loan. Given the amount of commission was 
low, Im satisfied GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a payment  nor was it 
under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. And I dont think the level of commission was sufficiently high to mean that 
GE Money should have appreciated not disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs B risked the 
relationship being unfair under section 140A. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs B would be able 
to rely on any other sections of the LA to extend the limitation period in these 
circumstances. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that Ive seen nothing to show 
that Business A was acting as agent to Mr and Mrs B. I cant see that its role was to make 
an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I dont think 
Business A needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission to Mr 
and Mrs B. 
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim 
was brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr and Mrs B may have against the timeshare provider or GE Money has expired under 
the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs B 
might have against the supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits 
set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. 
And Im not persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining their section 140A claim.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, as I understand she feels 
strongly that they paid a lot of money for the timeshare and accrued a large debt for 
something they now feel is worthless. But, ultimately, I think her section 140A claim was 
most likely made out of time under the LA. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to consider it further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman