DRN-2614827
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt provide her 
with reasonable notice that there were arrears payments due on her account and that they 
recorded missed payments on her credit file.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss N made a transaction on her Barclays account which caused the 
account to have a negative balance. This meant that minimum payments became due on the 
account in both April and May 2020. 
Miss N didnt make any payments on her account in April or May, because she didnt realise 
that minimum payments were due. Miss N first became aware that there was an outstanding 
balance on her account when she received a Notice of Arrears from Barclaycard on 20 May 
2020, at which time she immediately paid off the outstanding balance in full.
Because Miss N didnt make the necessary minimum payments, Barclays elected to reduce 
the credit limit on Miss Ns account. Barclays also reported missed payments for two months 
on Miss Ns credit file. Miss N didnt feel that this was fair, given that she hadnt been aware 
of the arrears and because the amount of the arears was relatively low. So, she made a 
complaint.
Barclays looked at Miss Ns complaint. But, because Miss N had missed the payments, they 
felt that their decision to reduce Miss Ns credit limit was warranted. They also felt that they 
had reported missed payments to the credit reference agencies correctly. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Miss N wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays hadnt acted 
unreasonably or unfairly toward Miss N here, so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Miss N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the 
same reasons.
Miss N doesnt dispute that she missed the contractual minimum payments that were due on 
her account in April and May. But Miss N does feel that a contributing factor that led to her 
missing the payments was that Barclays didnt provide reasonable notice to her that her 
account was in arrears and that minimum payments were due.
When Miss N set up her Barclaycard account, she elected to receive statements 
electronically. This meant that no paper statements were sent to Miss N, but rather that her 
monthly statements were sent to her online account.
Barclays have been able to demonstrate that they sent the monthly statements to Miss Ns 
online account for the month where the minimum payments were due. In addition, Barclays 
also sent a text message to Miss N shortly before the payment was due to confirm that a 
payment on the account was required. And Miss N has confirmed that she received these.
So, its difficult to conclude that Miss N wasnt given sufficient notice by Barclays that she 
needed to make a payment here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
aspect of her complaint.
It also follows that, because I consider that Barclays did fulfil their obligation to adequately 
notify Miss N that payments were due on her account, I also wont be upholding her 
complaint as it relates to the missed payments recorded on her credit file. This is because, 
ultimately, Miss N did miss the payments, and so Barclays have reported these missed 
payments accurately to the credit reference agencies, as they are obliged to do so.
I understand that this must be frustrating for Miss N, and I dont doubt that her missing these 
payments was an oversight which she corrected as soon as she became aware of it. But 
because Miss N was responsible for monitoring her account, and because Barclays have 
acted appropriately and in line with their responsibilities as a provider of credit, its not 
possible for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unreasonably or unfairly toward Miss N 
here, and so I cant uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaiint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman