DRN-2917232
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his application for a 
new account  which meant he couldnt apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr S was an existing personal customer of HSBC and wanted to apply to the bank for a loan 
under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
HSBC required customers to hold a business relationship with the bank before it would offer 
them a Bounce Back Loan. So Mr S applied for a feeder account. This type of account was 
to be used solely to draw down any funds borrowed under the Loan Scheme and transfer 
them onward. But HSBC declined Mr Ss application.
Mr S complained to HSBC and sent it some information about his business in an attempt to 
demonstrate his eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan. But the banks decision remained the 
same. In response to Mr Ss complaint, it said that the process for opening a new account 
was separate to the loan request. And it said the account application had been processed in 
accordance with its account-opening criteria and decided in line with its policy. 
So Mr S referred his complaint to us. He thought his business was eligible for the Bounce 
Back Loan and that HSBC had acted unfairly in declining his account application  
particularly as it had carried out a credit check when this wasnt permitted under the Loan 
Scheme rules. He was also unhappy that HSBC had initially asked him for some additional 
information but then reached its decision before hed provided this. And he said the banks 
process was obscure and its communication unhelpful, highlighting that it hadnt shared any 
detail about its criteria or the reasons for declining his application.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans. And it was 
reasonable for HSBC to require Mr S to open a feeder account first, so that it could 
complete the various checks expected of it in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations, and as required under the Scheme. 
The feeder account was a separate product to the Bounce Back Loan and therefore 
subject to different requirements.
HSBC had declined Mr Ss application as it failed the banks checks. Looking at the 
information HSBC reviewed when assessing the application, she thought the 
decision was reasonable.
While understanding why Mr S would want to know more about the banks decision, 
HSBC wasnt obliged to share any more information about this than it already had. 
Although it wasnt ideal that HSBC asked Mr S for some information about his 
business but then proceeded to reach a decision without it, the bank had confirmed 
that this wouldnt have changed the outcome.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that HSBCs policies were out of 
line with the expectations of lenders under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. He 
didnt think it was right for HSBC to have credit checked the application  particularly as he 
was a long-standing existing customer. He reiterated that the Bounce Back Loan wasnt 
subject to these requirements and that there was no justification for carrying out checks on 
the feeder account given it wasnt operational and was solely a means of drawing down a 
loan. And he remained unhappy at the lack of detail being shared about the banks 
processes, criteria and rationale. 
So with no resolution, Mr Ss complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. 
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications  including from their existing customers. While it wasnt a 
requirement of the Scheme that applicants have, or enter into, a business relationship with a 
lender, it was up to each lender to decide whether or not it was willing to lend to those 
without one. 
HSBC required customers without a business relationship to enter into one by way of either 
a feeder account or a business current account. This was a decision it was entitled to make. 
The bank has explained that the account-opening process enabled it to complete the various 
checks expected of it  under its legal and regulatory obligations, and as required by the 
Scheme rules. The existence of a personal relationship with the bank wouldnt necessarily 
mean that no further checks or information was required. Different information will 
understandably be required for a bank to satisfactorily complete all its Know Your Customer, 
anti-fraud and anti-money laundering checks for business customers as opposed to personal 
customers. So I think HSBCs process was reasonable.
Ive checked that HSBC didnt increase the criteria it used when considering applications for 
an account from customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan compared with its practice 
previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Mr Ss application against those criteria. So I 
think it treated Mr S fairly. Having reviewed the basis of the banks decision, I dont think it 
did anything wrong in declining to offer Mr S an account.
HSBCs account-opening process included a credit check and its criteria included certain 
credit score requirements. I can appreciate why Mr S doesnt think these aspects of the 
banks process were fair. Hes right to say that applications for the Bounce Back Loan 
werent subject to these. But the feeder account is a separate product and wasnt subject to 
the rules and requirements that applied specifically to the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. And 
while the purpose of the feeder account was to facilitate the drawdown of a Bounce Back 
Loan, as Ive explained above HSBC had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would 
accept applications  so it could decide the eligibility criteria for the accounts it offered them, 
including its credit-scoring requirements. In short, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in treating Mr Ss account application in a 
different way to that which would be expected of a Bounce Back Loan application.
Mr S is also unhappy that HSBC reviewed his application without considering some of the 
further information it had asked him to provide. I can see why this wouldve given him cause 
for concern. But ultimately, HSBC decided that it no longer needed that information in order 
to reach its decision  so it proceeded without it. I dont think that was unreasonable, 
although it couldve been better explained at the time. HSBC has since explicitly confirmed 
that this information wouldnt have changed things  and Im satisfied thats the case.
I recognise that Mr S will find HSBCs decision all the more difficult to accept given that he 
has not received full detail of either the banks processes or the reasons for its decision. And 
hes concerned weve not sufficiently scrutinised either of these. But as Ive referred to 
above, we have received information about both  so I have been able to understand and 
assess how the bank reached its decision. And while I can see why Mr S would want to 
know more, we cant require the bank to provide any more detail about this than has already 
been shared  particularly as information about how banks reach such decisions are subject 
to some legitimate confidentiality.
I appreciate that HSBCs decision left Mr S in a difficult position and I understand his 
strength of feeling over the issue. But taking all of the above into account, I dont think 
HSBCs decision was incorrect or unreasonable  so Im not requiring it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman