DRN-3593144
The complaint
Mr B complains about how he was treated by Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB) when he couldnt 
afford to make the payments on his agreement.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr B was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with STB. The agreement was for £22,085 over 60 months, with 59 monthly payments of 
£367 and a final payment of £377.  
Mr B said he sent an email on 1 December 2021 and called STB on 2 December 2021 to tell 
them he wouldnt be able to make his payment. He said he tried to agree a payment plan 
with STB but they werent sympathetic or helpful. They said they kept him on the phone, 
asking him personal questions about his finances, and making him late for work.
STB said Mr Bs agreement had been terminated in March 2019 after he fell into arrears. 
They said they have agreed several informal payment plans with Mr B to allow him to keep 
the car whilst the arrears are being cleared.
STB said Mr B complained to them in December 2021 that they hadnt either received or 
acknowledged emails. They said he also complained that they were rude and unhelpful 
when he was setting up a payment plan.
They accepted that on one occasion they hadnt called Mr B when they said they would. But 
they didnt uphold the other aspects of his complaint.
They said Mr B had called them on 2 December 2021 to say he wouldnt be able to make his 
payment. They said he told them this was because he had parking fines to pay. They said he 
told them his outgoings had increased since hed last provided income and expenditure 
details to them. They explained they needed up to date figures  they agreed to send him 
the relevant form as he told them he had to go to work, and gave him five days to compete 
and return it.
They also said that he was unhappy that his call on 3 December 2021 was transferred to the 
wrong part of the business.
STB said they called Mr B on 8 December 2021 in response to an email hed sent and to ask 
when hed be able to provide the income and expenditure form. They said Mr B offered to 
make a double payment on his next payday, later in December 2021. They said they 
explained to him why they needed the up to date income and expenditure information.
They said the information they had asked Mr B was necessary to avoid placing Mr B into 
further financial difficulty.
They said Mr B hadnt made the payment in December 2021 as he said he would, and they 
hadnt received payments since October 2021. 
Our investigator said shed listened to the calls and hadnt found anything unreasonable in 
the manner or information requested by STB. She said she was satisfied that STB had made 
reasonable attempts to agree a payment plan with Mr B, and that they were supportive and 
considerate of his circumstances. Overall, she felt that theyd acted fairly and reasonably 
and didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said hed tried to set up a payment plan with STB. 
He was unhappy that shed ignored their attitude and the upset this had caused him.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
Mr B said he was very upset by the way STB treated him in the calls. Id expect STB to treat 
customers who are struggling to pay sympathetically and positively. Part of that is 
understanding their individual circumstances.
Ive listened to the call he made on 2 December 2021. I havent heard anything that I would 
consider inappropriate or lacking sympathy from STB. Mr B was in a payment arrangement 
following the termination of the agreement. So when he told them he couldnt make the 
payment it was reasonable for them to find out why. This is so that they could avoid agreeing 
something that may put him in a worse financial position.
In the call STB asked Mr B to explain why he couldnt make the payment. He answered, 
without being pushed, referring to other costs that he had to pay to avoid court action. STB 
then asked him about his other expenses, including household bills. When he told them this 
had changed, they explained they would need an up to date income and expenditure form. 
Im satisfied this was a reasonable request, especially as a failure to meet the payments 
leaves Mr B at risk of losing the car. 
He said it was wrong for them to ask him to provide information about legal actions not 
related to the car. Im satisfied he gave that information voluntarily  he said he couldnt 
afford the payment because of other costs that had arrived. When asked what they were, he 
provided them with the information. I dont consider he was made to provide it.Mr B said STB deliberately kept him on the call to make him late for work. It wasnt until 14 
minutes into the call that Mr B said he had to go to work soon. STB continued to ask 
questions about his income and expenditure, particularly his disposable income, and 
explained why they needed that information. Mr B continued to engage in the conversation. 
After 16 minutes he said he had to go to work. STB responded by inviting him to call back 
later when he had more time. STB did ask if he could hold on while they checked something. 
He said he couldnt, and they agreed he would call back tomorrow morning.
Im not persuaded that Mr B was forced to stay on the call longer than he wanted. And Im 
not persuaded that he was unreasonably made to provide inappropriate personal information 
to STB.
Mr B made a number of calls after this date  registering his unhappiness with the service he 
received. Ive listened to those calls, and Im satisfied that STB engaged with him fairly and 
reasonably. He was listened to and STB were keen to provide him with the reassurance he 
was seeking.
There were some administrative errors, where calls were transferred to the wrong 
department, and where a call wasnt returned the next day as promised. STB has apologised 
for those errors.
Mr B complained that STB hadnt acknowledged the email hed sent the previous day. I can 
see that this email was logged on STBs system on 3 December 2021. I dont consider a 48 
hour period for acceptance or acknowledgment to be unreasonable.
 
Mr B was also unhappy that STB didnt respond to his emails. I havent seen any 
unreasonable delays. STB explained to Mr B that there is a delay whilst emails are loaded 
into their system. STB explained why he wouldnt receive an immediate response or 
acknowledgment to his emails  I think their response was fair and reasonable.
STB explained that Mr Bs agreement was terminated, but they agreed a payment plan so 
that he could keep the car. Since then, I can see that hes missed the agreed payments on 
several occasions, and theyve given him time to clear the arrears. Im satisfied that theyve 
continued to treat Mr B positively and sympathetically. Theyve taken steps to check any new 
arrangements are affordable for him, and its reasonable that included requiring him to 
provide up to date information about his income and expenditure. 
Mr B was also unhappy with how STB handled his complaint. I wont be looking at that part 
of his complaint. This is because complaint handling isnt an issue I can look at. I can only 
consider activities regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and these are set out 
in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. All of the regulated activities I can look into are listed 
under DISP 2.3.1. Complaint handling isnt one of those activities
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman