DRN-4447091
The complaint
Mr H held shares on Barclays Bank Plcs International Trader platform and this complaint 
concerns what happened to Mr Hs holdings with Barclays after it closed that platform in 
2017.
Whilst matters are now mostly resolved, Mr H is unhappy that he missed out on 
opportunities to sell the shares at a premium or take advantage of corporate actions due to 
delays. 
Mr H also experienced a number of admitted poor service issues over the course of six 
years or so whilst matters were unresolved, including misinformation and poor 
communication by Barclays, and he remains concerned about the time and trouble hes 
been involved in trying to sort matters out. 
So he expects Barclays to pay him appropriate redress to put things right.  
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties and Barclays has accepted there were 
significant shortcomings in the service it provided Mr H so I dont need to set things out at 
length here.
In very brief summary, Barclays wrote to affected customers in July 2017 advising that it was 
closing its Foreign Dealing Service and International Trader platform. Barclays told 
customers that it could transfer holdings to a named provider, if the customer agreed with 
the proposed migration.
Whilst Mr H was happy to liquidate all his holdings, it seems that two of his holdings were in 
share classes which Barclays couldnt trade or transfer to its Smart Investor platform. (Ill call 
these his EF shares and his EG shares and the parties will understand what Im referring 
to). There was no longer anyone at Barclays Mr H could speak to about his international 
shares. He found himself unable to resolve the issues he faced with these particular holdings 
and Barclays seemed unable to offer him a solution. 
There were ongoing issues throughout 2018 and the years following around Mr H having 
previously agreed in 2016 to take part in a corporate action and receive a special enhanced 
dividend, which required him to hold shares for at least two years - Barclays referred to 
these shares being locked, meaning the ownership of these shares couldnt change. This 
proved to be a complicating factor which Barclays didnt handle as well as it shouldve done 
and prompted Mr H to make a series of complaints to Barclays in 2018 and through to 2022. 
He was also unhappy that his communications generally with Barclays were frustrated by the 
lack of any or any timely response, and he didnt feel that Barclays showed any real 
engagement regarding working towards a resolution of his situation. For example, when 
Mr H found out information from another broker about the possibility of conversion to another 
share class which could enable a transfer. Mr H has said no-one at Barclays ever told him 
this was possible.
This led to Barclays issuing various apologies and making redress payments in recognition 
of the way it had handled matters for Mr H.
Matters however continued to be unresolved, with Barclays paying Mr H further 
compensation to make up for its poor service and there were further complaint points arising 
from time to time in addition to the ongoing matter of the outstanding issues to do with the 
locked shares.
Ultimately, dissatisfied with the lack of any resolution to his complaints and concerned about 
the way Barclays was handling things and the time it was taking to finalise matters, Mr H 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator thought that whilst Barclays hadnt been responsible for all the delays Mr H 
had faced, Barclays hadnt provided the service and level of support Mr H was entitled to 
expect and so he upheld this complaint. In particular, our investigator said that Barclays had 
agreed to monitor the situation and provide progress updates, but didnt do this. He felt that 
had been unfair to Mr H and had Barclays kept in touch, its likely the process of converting 
his shares could have started as early as January 2019, and been completed much sooner  
possibly within three months. In the event, that process had taken around six years resulting 
in significant distress and inconvenience over this time that the investigator thought could 
have been avoided had Barclays handled things differently and better, as Mr H was entitled 
to expect.
Our investigator set out the steps he suggested Barclays should take to put Mr H as closely 
as possible into the position he would have been in, had Barclays handled matters as it 
should have done in the first place. 
Mr H told us he accepted that the investigators suggested way of dealing with redress 
reflected a reasonable approach, although his expectations of significant compensation were 
low as he says stocks moved around a lot in line with the specific sectors and government 
actions throughout the relevant period. 
Barclays however has not responded to the investigators recommended settlement 
proposals nor to a reminder chasing up a response, beyond apologising for the delay in 
getting back to us and promising a reply some time ago, which didnt materialise. The 
complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we focus on deciding whether a financial 
business has made any error or acted unfairly or unreasonably. We are impartial and we 
make our decisions based on a balance of probabilities.
The investigator set out a detailed account and analysis of events which I think fairly 
represents what happened here. And since Barclays hasnt said it disagrees with anything 
that the investigator said in his view letter, it appears that the background facts are not in 
dispute. So I dont feel I need to say any more about what happened.
Barclays has issued apologies to Mr H (and compensation payments) in respect of various 
complaints that have arisen during the course of its handling of matters relating to Mr Hs EF 
and EG shares. The following is a very brief overview of some of the key issues that were 
particular flashpoints for Mr H: 
February 2018, after Mr H was not given the correct information about why his 
holdings werent transferred
March 2018, after Barclays had promised Mr H his fees would be waived for 
6 months, then failed to do this  
November 2018, after Barclays had told Mr H that some stock could not be 
transferred but had originally been unable to explain why. This turned out to be the 
stock locked as part of a Corporate Event to allow for a bonus dividend payment 
and as a result could not be transferred, but Barclays said it was sorry it wasnt able 
to tell Mr H this sooner. It also accepted that poor communication and delays 
updating Mr H were overarching themes and that it had taken longer than it 
should have done for Barclays to respond to Mr Hs concerns 
October 2022, when Barclays upheld Mr Hs complaints that he had received no 
communication regarding his foreign holdings, hed been unable to establish a point 
of contact and communication for this account and there was delay transferring to a 
new broker. Barclays admitted to a lack of ownership and communication by 
ourselves in relation to your efforts to achieve a solution, as well as periods of poor 
response from internal departments within Barclays.  
I find that Mr H was entitled to expect a better level of service from Barclays than he 
experienced. Shortcomings in Barclays service, in particular the periods of delay when 
progress stalled and Mr H was left in the dark about what his options were and what 
Barclays was doing to either advance matters or find alternative routes to a resolution for 
him, were all part of the reason it took so long for matters to be finally concluded. 
So I think it's fair to say that Barclays handling of the situation resulted in Mr H not being 
able to sell his shares as soon as he could, which means its fair and reasonable for me to 
make Barclays responsible for any financial loss this caused Mr H to suffer. I need to decide if Barclays needs to do more and if so, how best Barclays can put things 
right. So this is the focus of my decision and Ive thought carefully about how Barclays 
should provide redress for any investment or other financial loss Mr H might have suffered 
as well as compensation to reflect the extent and impact of Barclays service failings on 
Mr H.  
I've taken into account that Barclays has already made the following payments to Mr H by 
way of apology for its service failings:
£200 in February 2018
£100 in March 2018
£250 in November 2018
£300 in October 2022.
Our approach to redress is to put consumers into the position they would have been in, had 
the business not made any error or acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Thinking first about financial loss, the investigator suggested that Barclays should aim to put 
Mr H into the position he would have been in if his EF and EG shares had been sold in 2019. 
To be fair to both parties, the investigator suggested 1 April 2019 was a reasonable date to 
use for calculating potential loss as this was three months after the earliest date Barclays 
could and should have arranged for the holdings to be converted so that they could be sold. 
I think thats a reasonable approach, Barclays hasnt disagreed and Mr H is happy with this, 
although he recognises that until Barclays works out the figures, its unclear whether he has 
suffered any investment loss. 
Fair compensation also needs to properly reflect the impact on Mr H of Barclays service 
failings. Im mindful that Mr H experienced problems for almost six years, and Barclays 
admits it missed numerous opportunities to help him, it didnt always get back to him when it 
said it would and it didnt always give him accurate information. 
Mr H has frequently referred to having to spend a lot of time over a very long period trying to 
get a resolution to the situation and its evident from much of his correspondence, including 
to Barclays, just how trying he found his dealings with Barclays. In his complaint submission 
to us he described this as  an extremely long saga with Barclays and told us he had 
spent hundreds of hours trying to find a resolution and be able to gain access to my 
funds. He was concerned at having missed out on being able to access his funds when he 
wanted to take advantage of trading opportunities and mentioned in particular, having been  
unable to benefit from attractive corporate actions on the shares. So I can understand why 
he would have been frustrated at not being able to manage his investments over a 
prolonged period. And looked at overall, given the value of his holdings and the evident 
difficulties of the position he found himself in, through no fault of his own, I dont doubt this 
was an extremely stressful time for Mr H, made worse by the way Barclays dealt with 
matters.
I think Barclays has gone some way towards providing appropriate redress but I dont think 
the amounts paid so far are enough to fairly and reasonably redress the full impact on Mr H 
of its service failings on this occasion. I consider that the additional £400 suggested by the investigator matches the level of award 
I would make in these circumstances had it not already been proposed. I dont doubt that 
Barclays poor handling of matters caused Mr H significant distress and inconvenience over 
many years. 
I am satisfied that total compensation of £1,250 is fair compensation for Mr H in his particular 
circumstances. 
Barclays didnt disagree with this figure when it was proposed by the investigator. 
Looked at overall, I am satisfied that its fair to require Barclays to take the steps set out by 
the investigator to put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H agreed with my provisional decision. 
I heard nothing further from Barclays and the deadline for responses has now passed so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint and award 
the redress I proposed for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Barclays should do the following calculation and work out:
(A) The value of Mr Hs EF and EG shareholdings, as if theyd been sold on 1 April 2019 
plus 8% simple interest per year on this value from 1 April 2019 to the date they were sold. 
(Ill call this the fair value). 
It seems Mr H had a specific type of share so ideally any calculation should reflect this. But 
otherwise, if thats not possible, then I think it would be reasonable for Barclays to base its 
calculations on the ordinary share price).
(B) The value Mr H received from the sale of his EF and EG shares. (Ill call this the actual 
value).Barclays should then pay redress as follows:
If the fair value exceeds the actual value, Barclays should pay this amount to Mr H, adding 
8% simple interest per year from the date of the sale of the shares to the date of settlement.
 
If the actual value exceeds the fair value, then Mr H has suffered no financial loss and 
Barclays is not required to pay Mr H anything further under this part of my decision. 
Barclays should set out its workings in a clear and understandable format and provide this 
information to Mr H showing how it reached the figures it arrives at.
(C) Barclays should pay Mr H a further £400 (on top of the redress paid already) to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank Plc should take the steps set out above to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman