DRN-3734319
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with a claim against her 
private medical insurance policy. Mrs Bs husband, Mr B,  is helping her to bring the 
complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in 2014, Mrs B was diagnosed with aortic stenosis. She had 
annual check-ups. In 2015, Mrs B took out  private medical insurance policy with AXA. 
The policy renews in October each year.      
In September 2020, Mr B contacted AXA on Mrs Bs behalf and asked about cover for 
treatment for her heart problem. Ill refer to that conversation in more detail below. 
Following that conversation, Mr and Mrs B understood that the policy would cover 
replacement of Mrs Bs aortic valve. 
In February 2022, Mrs B made a claim against her policy in relation to surgery to replace 
her aortic valve. AXA declined the claim. It said that Mrs Bs annual check-ups were for a 
medical opinion, so the proposed treatment wasnt covered by the policy. AXA relied on 
the moratorium provision in her policy. 
Mrs B says that AXA acted unreasonably in declining her claim. She says that the 
annual monitoring and assessment she had wasnt treatment. Mrs B wanted AXA to 
cover the cost of the operation but since brining the complaint, shes had surgery in the 
NHS. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that AXA fairly declined 
the claim, as it isnt covered by the policy. But the investigator thought that AXA had 
given Mrs B a false expectation that her claim would be covered. She recommended that 
AXA pay Mrs B compensation of £250 in relation to that. 
Neither Mrs B nor AXA agreed with the investigator. Mrs B said that if they had been 
aware of the true position following Mr Bs phone call to AXA in September 2020, she 
would have discontinued the policy and not renewed it for the following two years. She 
said that its not clear in the policy that monitoring a pre-existing condition is treatment. 
Mrs B said that she hadnt claimed on the policy for two years and that compensation of 
£250 isnt fair. She suggested the return of one years premium. 
AXA said whilst it gave Mrs B the impression that it would be able to assist with a claim 
for her aortic valve problem, it did so on the basis that Mrs B saw the consultant regularly 
for her own peace of mind. It said that the medical information shows that Mrs B was 
seen in the NHS since 2018, so the claim comes within the moratorium period. AXA also 
said that it told Mrs B that it would need medical information to consider the claim. 
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Mrs Bs policy is on a moratorium 
basis. That means that it doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions Mrs B had in the five 
years before the policy began until she has been a member for two years in a row and had a 
period of two years in a row trouble-free from that condition. The policy says: 
Trouble free means that you have not done any of the following for the medical condition 
you need treatment for:
had a medical opinion from a medical practitioner, including a GP or specialist; or
taken medication (including over-the-counter drugs); or
followed a special diet; or
had medical treatment; or
visited any medical practitioner, including but not limited to a practitioner, homeopath, 
acupuncturist, physiotherapist, osteopath, optician or dentist.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in 
part and Ill explain why:
I dont think that AXA was at fault in declining Mrs Bs claim. In the two years 
before the claim, Mrs B had visited a medical practitioner about the medical 
treatment she needed treatment for. So, she hadnt had two years trouble free, as 
defined by the policy. I have noted Mr and Mrs Bs comments about the nature of 
the consultations  that it was simply monitoring for Mrs  Bs peace of mind - but 
that doesnt alter the outcome here. 
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs B that the policy isnt clear. Ive set out above the 
policys definition of trouble-free. I think its sufficiently clear. 
Ive listened to the phone call in September 2020 between Mr and Mrs B and AXA. 
I think that AXA led Mrs B to believe that a future claim for replacement of her 
aortic valve would be covered. It said that she satisfied the two year trouble-free 
period, she hadnt had active treatment and didnt have symptoms. But based on 
the information Mr B provided during the call, it was clear that it was likely that a 
future claim wouldnt be covered. Thats because Mrs B was having regular check-
ups. It didnt matter whether those check-ups were for her own peace of mind or at 
the direction of medical practitioners. So, I think that the phone call was misleading 
in that it led Mrs B to believe that a future claim was likely to be covered. 
Ive noted that AXA also told Mr B that it would probably need further medical 
information at the time of any claim but that doesnt alter my view that the phone 
call was misleading.  
When mistakes like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the misleading 
information is true. We look at the effect of the misleading information on the individual. Mrs B says that if shed known the true position she would have 
discontinued the policy and not renewed it for the following two years. At this 
distance its not possible to say with any certainty what Mrs B would have done if 
she hadnt been given misleading information. I dont think I can fairly direct AXA to 
refund premiums, as Mrs B has had the benefit of cover. But Mrs B was no doubt 
disappointed to discover the true position at an already distressing time. I think fair 
compensation for that is £250. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of Mrs Bs distress and inconvenience caused by the 
misleading information. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AXA should now pay Mrs B compensation of £250 in relation to 
her distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should 
now take the step Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman