DRN-1362675
 
The complaint
Mr O complains about charges applied to his current account with TSB Bank plc. 
What happened
Mr O has a current account with TSB. In the past. Mr O has been overdrawn on a number of 
occasions and has incurred charges as a result.
Mr O has made a number of complaints to TSB in the past. In early 2019 he brought a 
complaint to us about TSB imposing charges whilst he was experiencing financial difficulty.
We concluded our investigation into that complaint after TSB agreed to refund recent 
overdraft charges on the account. 
So, in March 2019, TSB wrote to Mr O saying they'd refunded a number of charges. They 
said that would still have left him overdrawn (by £20) due to a particular transaction in 
February 2019, but because they were also awarding him £150 in compensation for his 
trouble and upset, he'd now be in credit (by £130) and would incur no further charges if the 
account remained in credit.
In April 2019, TSB contacted Mr O and said he'd have to pay overdraft charges (in May) 
because he'd gone overdrawn in February. 
Mr O tried to contact TSB to ask why their April contact appeared to contradict what he'd 
been told in March. He says he got no reply.
He says he also started to receive daily calls from TSB's collections team chasing him for 
repayment of his overdraft.
Mr O brought his complaint to us in July 2019 having had no reply to his complaint to TSB. 
Our investigator looked into it and found out that TSB had (after Mr O had complained to us) 
refunded any charges applied to Mr O's account after May, bringing his account balance to 
zero.
Whilst she thought this rectified any financial loss Mr O might have incurred as a result of 
TSB's application of charges after May 2019, she thought TSB should compensate him by 
giving him £150 for his trouble and upset.
TSB disagreed with this outcome. They didn't think any compensation was justified. And 
they asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.TSB gave Mr O a clear undertaking in March 2019 that he'd wouldn't incur any further 
charges if his account stayed in credit. And at that point, they very explicitly referred to his 
having gone £20 overdrawn in February 2019. 
So, I think Mr O had a right to expect that he effectively has a clean slate (and wouldn't have 
any more charges applied to his account) - from March 2019 onwards - as long as he didn't 
go overdrawn again.
TSB have provided Mr O's account statements for the relevant period. He didn't go 
overdrawn again at all until, in May 2019, they imposed an overdraft charge. This must have 
been a charge for the February overdraft. Mr O hadn't been overdrawn since. And in case 
there were any doubt, TSB told him explicitly that the charge was for the February overdraft.
Because Mr O was then overdrawn, further monthly overdraft charges were applied in July 
and August. 
Throughout that period, TSB's Collections team were chasing Mr O for the debt. Meantime, 
Mr O was making enquiries with TSB to establish why he had been charged.
When Mr O spoke to the Collections Team in July, it appears they realised the error and 
refunded the overdraft charges. There's a further twist when TSB charged Mr O again in 
August - although to be fair this charge was immediately refunded.
So, in summary, TSB promised not to impose further charges on Mr O's account after March 
2019, as long as he stayed in credit. He did. But they then nonetheless imposed charges in 
May, July and August. And when they realised their error, they refunded the charges.
Putting things right
The refunds - which bring Mr O's balance to zero - address any financial loss which might 
have been caused by TSB's errors. However, they don't compensate Mr O for the stress and 
frustration he's suffered because TSB seemingly forgot entirely what it promised him in 
March 2019 - and then chased him for repayment of a debt which should never have 
existed.
TSB say Mr O has already been compensated because they paid him £150 in March 2019. 
Frankly, I find that position very hard to understand. 
That £150 was compensation relating to Mr O's previous complaint - which came to a 
conclusion in March 2019. Logically, it can only have covered trouble and upset Mr O 
experienced up to the time it was paid (in March 2019).
Our investigator has suggested a further £150 compensation for Mr O's trouble and upset 
from April 2019, when TSB - in error - contacted him to say he was being charged 
again, would be overdrawn and would need to pay the money back.
Mr O had every reason to believe any existing debts and/or charges on his account were 
cleared in March 2019. 
He's then experienced frustration, because TSB seemed to have forgotten their undertaking 
to him. And he's experienced a degree of stress because TSB appeared to be asking him to 
repay what would have been an ever-escalating debt with fresh overdraft charges applied 
every month.That stress and frustration lasted for a fairly prolonged period between April 2019, when 
TSB first told him they were applying more overdraft charges, and late July 2019, when their 
Collections team told Mr O they'd be refunding those charges. I'm satisfied that £150 is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the degree of trouble and upset Mr O suffered during that 
period. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr O's complaint.
TSB Bank plc should pay hm £150 for his trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman