DRN-3629686
The complaint
Mrs E complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for a cash 
withdrawal where she said the machine didnt dispense the money.
What happened
On Friday 14 August 2020, Mrs E went to a cash machine to withdraw £180. She said that 
the machine kept her card, and didnt dispense any money.
There are different versions of what happened:
- Mrs E said there was someone in front of her, but she waited at the machine for 10 
minutes waiting for the cash, but nothing happened. She said no-one else used the 
machine after her.
- Barclays obtained the machine record, called a journal roll. This showed a customer 
withdrew money two minutes before Mrs E, and another customer withdrew money 
two minutes after Mrs E.
Mrs Es complaint isnt on Barclays records until Wednesday 19 August. Mrs E said she 
didnt ring because she didnt know Barclays number. She said she went to a branch either 
the next day, Saturday, or on Monday. They said someone would get back to her, but they 
didnt. So she went to a different branch on Wednesday.
Barclays notes record that Mrs E raised the complaint on 19 August. The notes say it was 
declined the next day, 20 August, but dont record whether or how this was communicated to 
Mrs E.
Barclays notes also record that on 20 September 2021  over a year later  customer is 
calling us every week to chase it. The notes for that call record that the adviser told Mrs E 
that the dispute had already been registered and declined, and that it was too late to raise 
this again. The adviser told Mrs E that Barclays would get in touch with her about the reason 
why it had been declined.
Barclays sent Mrs E a final response letter on 20 September 2021. That said since weve 
discussed your concerns, your complaint has now been resolved and closed.
Mrs E wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. He pointed out that the fact that someone 
else had used the machine after Mrs E indicated there hadnt been any issues with the 
machine. And it also meant that it was unlikely the machine had been tampered with, 
because there was such a short window for any fraudster to have come and collected any 
retained funds. 
The adjudicator also said that hed have expected Mrs E to report the problem to Barclays 
straightaway. The withdrawal had left very little money in the account, whereas shed only 
reported it five days later. Mrs E had said shed borrowed from friends and family, but the 
adjudicator still would have expected her to report it straightaway.
Mrs E wasnt satisfied. She said the money never came out and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In my provisional decision, I said the following.
Who is liable for the disputed £180
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 set out responsibilities when theres a dispute of 
this type. Section 75 says:
Evidence on authentication and execution of payment transactions
75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by 
the payment service provider.
So in my provisional decision, I explained that it was for Barclays to show that it has met 
these requirements. Barclays had only provided us with the journal roll, so I asked it for the 
other information wed usually expect. This included confirmation from the cash machine 
owner about whether or not any other problems had been reported at that time; whether 
there was any evidence of a third party device, whether any money was found in whats 
called the purge bin; and whether the machine balanced at the end of the day.
Barclays replied saying all these things didnt show errors. I accepted that might be the case, 
but without seeing that evidence myself, Barclays hadnt proved that the transaction here 
was executed in the way the Regulations say. So with that in mind, I considered the wider 
circumstances based on what Mrs E and Barclays had provided to us.
Mrs Es testimony around this did have some  inconsistencies. For example, she said that 
shed stood at the machine for 10 minutes after the money wasnt dispensed. But the 
records showed someone had successfully withdrawn money two minutes later. And I was 
very surprised that Mrs E didnt look up Barclays phone number and ring them straightaway, 
or early the next morning, to report the problem. But shed explained why that was.
But neither of those things made me think that itd be fair for Barclays to hold Mrs E liable for 
this transaction. The Regulations are very clear about what Barclays needs to do to show in 
respect of this transaction. And as it hadnt done so, I thought it was fair for Barclays to 
refund Mrs E with the disputed £180.
Customer serviceI also looked at the customer service which Barclays gave Mrs E in relation to its provision of 
a financial service.
In particular, there was no clear explanation about why it took over a year for Barclays to 
give a full explanation of its final position on the dispute to Mrs E. It only did that in its final 
response letter, but Barclays notes record that she was calling us every week to chase it. I 
asked Barclays about the chronology. Barclays replied that the machine owner declined the 
dispute on 20 August 2020. But there was nothing to show this was communicated at the 
time, and in its response to my questions, Barclays said that a final response wouldnt be 
issued on a cash machine dispute, because it wasnt raised as a complaint but as a cash 
machine dispute. 
But Barclays knew that Mrs E had raised a dispute here, and knew that the outcome was 
important to her from the frequency of her calls. It was clear that not receiving a full response 
to this dispute for over a year did cause Mrs E distress and inconvenience. So I considered 
Barclays should pay Mrs E £100 compensation for this distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted the provisional decision.
Mrs E didnt reply to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the evidence, and in the light of responses to the provisional 
decision, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs 
E:
- £180 refund for the disputed transaction on 20 August 2020; and 
- Interest at 8% simple on this, from 20 August 2020 to the date of payment; and 
- £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by not providing a final 
response to Mrs Es complaint for over a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman