DRN-4185745
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S was originally represented by a claims management company (the CMC) but the
CMC is no longer representing him. However, I have referred to the CMC throughout the
decision where needed.
Background 
In or around December 2018, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home.
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was
subsequently installed.
Mr S also used another 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook to pay for a
battery.
In January 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced
Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had
been made:
The system and the battery would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and reduction in energy bills would provide enough income to
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Mr S says he was told he would receive a payment of £200 a quarter (so £800 
annually) for 10 years for the energy stored in his battery.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any
other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the
information and evidence provided, our investigator thought while some of the information
given to Mr S could have been clearer, he didnt think that P had misrepresented the system
to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
He pointed out that he signed the agreement on the 29 December 2018, but the 
system was installed on 11 January 2019  so he wasnt given the full 14-day cooling 
off period.
He submitted evidence that P admitted that the salesperson that sold Mr S his 
system may have been confused as to whether the payments in relation to his 
battery made were paid quarterly or annually  and this information wasnt clarified 
by P until after installation. He reiterated he was led to believe he would receive £800 
a year annually over 10 years from the battery as part of a government incentive to 
purchase batteries. He said he bought the system and the battery on the basis that 
he would receive £8,000 which was a significant proportion of the total cost of his 
purchases.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 26 May 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither Shawbrook nor Mr S made any further comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice,
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook,
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities -
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider
surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system and battery would beentirely self-financing.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook.
These include the credit agreements and solar quotes. Ive considered these, along with the
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is
most likely to have happened.
The solar system quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the
system, the expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via
Shawbrook, has told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the
representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any
benefits of the system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr S has
signed the quotation documents (for both the system and the battery), the credit agreements
and the express work forms.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the
quotes did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of
fact.
The cost of the system and the battery
The credit agreements set out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Im satisfied that Mr S was told that the cost of the system was £9,200. The credit agreement
also sets out that the total amount of credit is £9,101 (after deducting a deposit of £99) and
goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £13,284.60.
The quote set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £108.50. But I note Mr S
deferred his payments for a few months which is reflected in his credit agreement and his
monthly payment is also marginally different at £109.88  but I dont think these differences
make the quote mis-leading and it doesnt change my view of the complaint.
Mr Ss second credit agreement for the battery sets out that cost of the battery was
£4,195.85, the total amount of credit is £4,195.85, the monthly payment was £50.69 and
goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £6,082.80.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that
he was told that there would be monthly loan repayments due. Overall, Im satisfied that the
quotes and the credit agreements, made it clear that although the cost of the system was
£9,200 and the cost of the battery was £4,195.85, it would cost Mr S more than this as he
had decided to pay for them with interest bearing loans.
Self-funding 
The CMC has said that Mr S was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to receive by way of FIT 
payments from the system. The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.   
I think its clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £201.38, 
which results in an average monthly income of £16.78. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £156.53 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr S the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £384.16. 
This is shown in the summary table as well as the what will you earn and save per year? 
table. (see below). 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of around £108.50 (which amounts to £1,302 annually). The 
monthly payment for the battery was £50.69 (which is another £608.28 on top). As the total 
yearly income from the system is only £384.16, Im not able to conclude that the consumer 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and 
savings.
Theres a section headed All of our payment options with three table showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months 
since this is the length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows 
the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £108.50. For each year of the 10-year 
loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure 
over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £108.50, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT income 
and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments of the system. And the monthly shortfall per year is also more than the monthly 
cost of the battery £50.69. 
This supports my finding above that Mr S wasnt told that the FIT payments and savings 
would cover the loan repayments of the system and battery. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
As explained above, the sales documentation usually reflects the information consumers 
were given and discussed during the sales meeting. So overall, I consider the salesperson 
did not make a representation that the system would be self-funding from the outset. Rather, 
I find that the salesperson went through the quote at the meeting which sets out that there 
would be a difference between the expected income and the monthly loan repayments.
The what you will earn and save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that after year 21, the overall benefits that Mr S 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement for the solar panel system. But the benefit from the system alone would never 
exceed the total cost of the system and the battery when including the finance charges. 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,141.60 kWh a year. I have looked at Mr S FIT statements and can 
see that his system, on average, has generated 3,591.13 kWh. This is slightly more than 
estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as 
expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
Payments in relation to the battery storage pack 
Mr S says he was told he would get £800 a year for 10 years for the battery and he bought 
the solar panel system and the battery on that basis  as £8,000 was a significant part of the 
overall cost of the purchase. As explained above, the sales quotation document usually 
guides the discussions the P had with consumers, so Ive looked at the information 
contained in it, in conjunction with Mr Ss testimony and the evidence he has sent in. Having 
looked at the quote and the evidence Mr S has submitted, it seems this payment is in 
relation to grid trading which would be available from quarter 3 of 2019 (as shown on his 
battery quote). 
The quote for the battery set out a number of potential earning options that could be 
achieved from the battery. Only the self-consumption option was available at the time of 
sale, with other options becoming available later in year 2019 and some expected in the 
coming years. For example, grid trading would become available later in 2019 and peer to 
peer trading expected in a few years time. The quote set out therefore the income that each 
option could potentially provide Mr S in the future. But as these options were not in place at 
the time of sale, I dont think the payments could have been guaranteed to him at the point of 
sale. 
It may be beneficial to explain that in order for me to uphold Mr Ss complaint, Id need to be 
satisfied that P (or its salesperson), made a specific representation that Mr S was 
guaranteed to receive £200 quarterly, so £800 annually for 10 years for purchasing the 
battery. That Mr S then relied on this misrepresentation and bought the system and battery 
mainly for this reason. That without such a representation he would not have gone ahead 
with the entire purchase. 
However, the evidence he has submitted, he refers to the payment as £200 a year 
government incentive to encourage consumers to buy the battery. He questions when the 
payments will begin, and whether it would be paid annually or quarterly  indicating he 
wasnt fully aware how this payment worked in practice. 
I think its clear from the evidence that Mr S has submitted that he and the sales person 
discussed the different revenues streams available and in development  and that there may 
have been some confusion as to what payments Mr S would receive in relation to the battery 
and how often he would receive them. From the email chain he has submitted, it seems P 
accepts that the salesperson may have been confused in this regard. However, Mr S 
appears to have gone ahead with the purchase without fully knowing what payments he 
would get  seeking clarification directly from P later. I have no doubt that this information 
could have been set out more clearly and accept that it may not have been apparent exactly 
what payments Mr S would get and when. Some of the earning options for example were not 
even expected until several years after the sale (peer to peer trading for example expected 
in 2021). 
However, I havent seen sufficient evidence that Mr S was deliberately mis-led regarding this 
matter. It seems Mr S chose to proceed with the purchase without fully understanding its 
benefits  and then contacted P later to determine what payments he was able to access. 
But this does not amount to a specific misrepresentation that he relied on  which is needed 
to uphold a complaint on the basis. 
I have thought carefully about Mr Ss testimony and believe he has given us his best 
recollection of events. But while I appreciate Mr S believes he was assured by the 
salesperson verbally that he would receive £8,000 over 10 years, this is not corroborated by 
the other evidence. Im afraid I havent seen sufficient evidence that the specific 
representation was made, that the payment was guaranteed or that Mr S relied on this 
specific statement and went ahead with the purchase of both the system and the battery 
mainly for this reason. So, I dont uphold his complaint on this basis. 
Other issuesAffordability  the CMC mentioned that sufficient affordability checks may not have been 
carried out during the sale. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the loans were 
unaffordable, and it seems Mr S has since repaid his loans. 
Cancellation  Mr S has also recently pointed out that he didnt get the full 14-day 
cancellation rights, with the system being installed after 13 days rather than 14. But Mr S 
signed an express supply of services form agreeing to have the system installed at the 
earliest opportunity, and also signed the customer satisfaction form on the day of installation 
indicating he was happy with the installation. Ive also seen no evidence he tried to cancel 
the sale within the 14-day cancellation period  so he doesnt appear to have been affected 
by this.
Unfair relationship - Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there 
existed an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Act as alleged by the CMC. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
So, while Ive considered these concerns, my view of Mr Ss complaint remains unchanged.
 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining 
the claim.
Neither Shawbrook nor Mr S have commented on my provisional decision. In the absence of 
any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional decision. So, for the same reasons explained in my provisional decision 
(and as set out above), I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman