DRN-3380725
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Unum Limited (Unum) unfairly declined his claim.
 
What happened
Mr R has a group income protection insurance policy through his employer, underwritten by 
Unum. This pays a benefit if Mr R is unable to work due to illness or injury after a deferred 
(waiting) period of 26 weeks. 
Mr R made a claim in 2020 as he was unable to work due to anxiety. But Unum declined the 
claim as it said Mr R was suffering from work related stress and there wasnt any evidence to 
suggest that Mr R wouldnt be able to perform his role for another employer. 
Mr R complained and unhappy with Unums response, referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had unfairly declined the 
claim. Mr R disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Although he was stressed, this was the trigger for his illness and the evidence shows 
he was unable to perform his role.
His GP signed him off with anxiety which is an illness. And his GP and 
psychotherapist both confirmed his symptoms and that he would be unable to 
perform his role.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
Mr R has sent in detailed representations about the medical evidence and his incapacity. I 
have reviewed and considered everything he has sent in, even if I dont explicitly refer to it in 
my decision. Instead, I have focused on what I consider to be key as Im allowed to do under 
our rules.
The relevant industry guidance says an insurer should handle claims promptly, fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of their insured occupation 
because of illness or injury.
Unum reviewed the available medical evidence and concluded that Mr R was suffering from 
work related stress. As stress isnt an illness, but a reaction to circumstances, it didnt think 
he met the definition of incapacity. 
Unum reviewed the medical evidence and found that the level of treatment Mr R had 
accessed  anti depressants and cognitive behavioural therapy - was consistent with a 
stress reaction. It said it would expect to see abnormal mental states recorded on 
examinations and referral to a psychiatrist or mental health team if Mr R was unable to work 
due to his mental health. It said the evidence suggests Mr Rs perception of his work 
environment is the barrier to work and there was no evidence that Mr R couldnt perform his 
role of a senior analyst. 
Ive set out below the key medical evidence Unum relied on to reach its decision. 
The key medical evidence 
March 2020  Mr R became absent from work and his GP noted he was suffering from work 
related stress and anxiety since December.
April 2020  Mr R was signed off by his GP due to anxiety disorder. The GP notes record 
that Mr R was feeling a bit better but then received a text from his boss. He also commented 
that due to the pandemic, it wasnt the right time to look for new work in his sector. 
Mr R requested further sick notes throughout the deferred period, some of which were 
requested via the econsult service.
May 2020  Mr R told his GP he had been speaking to his Union as he realised how bad his 
work environment had been. 
September 2020  the end of the deferred period. At the end of September, Mr Rs GP noted 
that he was suffering from anxiety issues. His anti-depressant medication was changed due 
to the side effects of fatigue. 
October 2020  Mr Rs GP wrote a letter of support for his income protection claim and said 
Mr R had reported negative thinking, irritability, palpitations, lack of motivation, poor 
concentration and insomnia. He said Mr R was unable to carry out his usual work duties. 
A cognitive behavioural psychotherapist also wrote a letter to say Mr R would find it difficult 
to cope at work due to poor concentration and his anxiety and depression and that he had 
attended sessions of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) throughout the deferred period.
Having considered the above medical evidence, I dont think Unum unfairly declined Mr Rs 
claim. The onus is on Mr R to show that he meets the definition of incapacity throughout the 
deferred period. So that means he must demonstrate, through medical evidence, that he is 
unable to perform the role of a senior analyst due to illness. 
I dont think Mr R has done this for the following reasons:
The policy isnt specific to Mr Rs place of employment and it is his role which is 
insured. This means his incapacity must prevent him from doing his role with any 
employer.
The medical evidence set out above is based on Mr Rs self-reporting and talks about 
his work-related issues and work environment which have caused his anxiety. This suggests that if his work environment was removed (for example by changing 
employer), he would be able to perform his role. 
There is no evidence from a specialist, in the deferred period, which explains why Mr 
R is unable to perform his role due to illness. The evidence is based on what Mr R 
has told his health professionals. 
Although Mr R has a diagnosis of anxiety, this in itself isnt enough to meet the 
definition of incapacity. An illness has to prevent Mr R from performing the material 
and substantial duties of his role. And for this, I would expect to see objective 
medical evidence explaining why Mr Rs anxiety was stopping him from performing 
his role with any employer. The evidence points to problems with his work 
environment which is the trigger for his anxiety. Unum say this suggests the barrier to 
work is work related stress rather than an illness. 
Mr R says his work-related stress is the cause of his illness but that shouldnt matter. 
As Ive set out above, if the evidence shows that Mr Rs work environment is the 
cause of his illness, then removing the work environment would suggest he is able to 
perform his role elsewhere. This means he hasnt proven that he has met the 
definition of incapacity as required by the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr R has referred to a letter from his psychotherapist in October 2020 which confirms 
he cannot work. But this is again based on Mr Rs self-reporting and what Mr R has 
told his psychotherapist and healthcare professionals. There is no evidence that he 
was independently assessed against the requirements of his role to show which parts 
of his role he cant perform and why.
Based on the medical evidence from the deferred period of March 2020 to 
September 2020, I dont think Unum unfairly declined the claim as there is insufficient 
evidence of incapacity. 
Mr R does have further medical evidence after the end of the deferred period from a 
consultant psychiatrist. But this falls outside of the deferred period. Mr R may have 
had to wait for an appointment to see a psychiatrist, but I would still expect to see 
further medical evidence from the deferred period providing more detail about his 
inability to perform his role. Without this, I dont think I can fairly ask Unum to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman