DRN-2720390
The complaint
Ms Y complains about the charges that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) 
levied when she returned a car at the end of a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In September 2015 Ms M entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car. 
She was to make 47 monthly payments of £272.09, the first payment to be made one month 
after the start date of the agreement. If she wanted to keep the car at the end of the 
agreement, she could make an optional payment of just over £9,700. 
In the event, Ms M decided to return the car at the end of August 2019. She was told that 
she would however still need to make the payment due in September. She thought, as she 
was returning the car early, she should not have to make that payment. 
When Ms M did return the car BMWFS issued an invoice for over £900 for damage to it. It 
said the alloy wheels were scuffed and that there were scratches to the paintwork and one of 
the headlights. Ms M objected, saying that any damage was fair wear and tear. BMWFS 
reviewed the matter and agreed to reduce the amount it was seeking, ultimately to £144 to 
cover scuffed wheels and one scratch. 
Ms M didnt think this went far enough and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the case but thought that BMWFS had acted fairly. He thought that 
Ms M had paid the correct amount under the hire purchase agreement and that the 
additional charges (after BMWFS had agreed to the reductions) reflected damage which 
went beyond wear and tear. 
Ms M didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, 
and for similar reasons. 
I do not believe that Ms M has paid more in rental payments than was properly due. Monthly 
payments were to be made in arrears  that is, each monthly payment covered the month 
that had just passed. The hire purchase agreement expressly said that the first payment was 
due one month after the start of the agreement. Therefore, in making a payment when she 
returned the car, Ms M was paying for the use she had already had of it, not for future use 
she did not have.
I have seen pictures of the areas of the car that BMWFS says were damaged. Like the 
investigator, I am satisfied that the damage goes beyond wear and tear and that BMWFS is 
entitled to levy an extra charge in respect of it. 
I note that Ms M says that the fact that BMWFS initially sought to charge around £800 more 
is evidence of wider wrongdoing on its part. I can however only consider Ms Ms case, not 
what might have happened to other customers. And, since BMWFS has agreed to reduce its 
original charge, I do not need to decide whether any higher charge was justified. I am 
satisfied however that the reduced charge is fair. 
Finally, there were some administrative errors here  for example, Ms M received 
correspondence which did not include her name. I dont believe however that any such minor 
errors merit an award of compensation.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman