DRN-2840190
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I understand there was some prior confusion, as Barclays thought Mr Ss complaint may 
have been made out of time, and it wasnt initially sure how his policy was sold. But Barclays 
then accepted Mr Ss complaint was made in time, and I can see from the relevant records 
that his policy was sold in 2005 over the phone, as Barclays since confirmed.
I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over a decade and a half ago, so unsurprisingly there isnt still a recording or 
transcript of the phone call involved. Thats understandable  indeed, under data protection 
rules, Barclays was required to dispose of such data rather than hold onto it for too long, and 
normally such data is not kept for more than six years. Meanwhile, Mr S doesnt recall 
discussing or buying PPI, and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance 
is not often memorable and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about 
whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence I have.
From what Ive seen of Barclays sales process at the time, staff were instructed to make it 
clear that the policy was optional. And then in order to get a policy, Mr S would need to have 
actively chosen it. Ive not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the 
time, nor anything which makes me think that Mr Ss sale significantly departed from the 
normal process, nor anything which shows that Mr S was misled into having PPI. So I think 
its most likely that Barclays made it clear Mr S didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose 
to take it  though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check that the policy was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ss work benefits and 
covered him for far longer. And he didnt have any other significant protection. I understand 
Mr Ss family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed. And this card was Mr Ss sole responsibility, so I dont think it 
wouldve been suitable if Barclays had recommended that he rely on other people to pay it. 
Overall, it looks like the PPI could have been useful for Mr S in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I said above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mr S in case something went wrong. And 
so I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Lastly, I understand that Mr S is unhappy with the way Barclays handled his complaint about 
PPI. Im afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about regulated 
activities  such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated 
activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear that Mr S found the complaints process 
stressful, I cant consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision on the sale of the PPI.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman