DRN-3733775
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Robert May Financial Services mis-advised her when taking out 
a life assurance policy in 2010.
What happened
Mrs P was sold a life assurance policy, which she wanted for the protection of her family. 
She wanted to ensure her mortgage would be paid off in the event of her ex-husbands 
death - so he was the life assured - but she was the beneficiary. Mrs P discovered recently 
that this wasnt correct. The insurer confirmed the proceeds of the policy would go to the 
estate of her ex-husband. 
Robert May Financial Services has suggested this can be rectified by the policy being put in 
trust. As Mrs Ps ex husband will not agree to this she feels that she has been paying for 
protection she will never benefit from.
Our investigator agreed. She was satisfied Mrs P had been mis-advised. She recommended 
Robert May Financial Services refunded the equivalent amount that Mrs P had paid in 
premiums from the start of the policy to date plus interest, as well as £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Mrs P had suffered.
Robert May Financial Services didnt agree. It said:
It is not clear if the error in setting up the policy was down to Robert May Financial 
Services making an inputting error or the insurer making a mistake in setting up the 
policy.
Notwithstanding that the policy has been set up with the wrong plan owner, Mrs P 
has suffered no loss as she hasnt needed to make a claim.
The matter can be quickly and easily resolved by the parties signing a trust 
document.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
It is not in dispute that Mrs P has not needed to claim on the policy. However Im 
satisfied that if properly advised that she would be paying for a policy she wouldnt 
benefit from and which wouldnt meet her stated requirements she wouldnt have 
taken the policy out in the first place.
The matter cant be resolved now by setting up a trust as Mrs Ps ex-husband has 
not agreed to this. It may be this would have been possible at the time of sale, but 
Mrs P wasnt told it was a requirement at that time. Rather she was assured this plan 
would meet her needs, which was incorrect.
Its clear from the application form completed at the time of sale that Mrs P was to be 
the plan owner but Mr P the life assured. The premiums were to come from Mrs Ps 
account. The answers to the questions on the form make it clear that Mrs P and Mr P 
were separated and living at different addresses. Robert May Financial Services has 
said it has no reason to doubt that it requested the plan to be set up correctly with 
Mrs P as the plan owner. I havent seen the application form submitted by the 
advisers secretary to the insurer. But the documentation received from the insurer 
when the application was received refers to Mr P as the client of Robert May 
Financial Services. This was incorrect and should have alerted Robert May Financial 
Services to the mistake at that time.
As the policy was set up with Mr P as the policy owner, and this wasnt corrected by 
Robert May Financial Services, the advice it gave Mrs P that the arrangement would 
meet her needs in the event of Mr Ps death was incorrect.
Im satisfied this matter has caused Mrs P distress and inconvenience for which 
compensation is due. I find that £250 is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Robert May Financial Services to:
Pay Mrs P the equivalent to all the premiums she has paid for the policy from 
inception.
Add interest at 8% simple per annum from the date each premium was paid until the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mrs P £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman