DRN-2498191
complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC did not reimburse the money he transferred to a 
fraudster.  
background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in January 2020, Mr H was contacted by a 
fraudster pretending to be from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). Mr H, who is self-
employed, was told by the fraudster that his accountant had submitted false figures on his 
behalf for a three-year period and that to avoid being arrested for tax evasion and incurring a 
£12,000 fine, Mr H needed to pay what he owed in tax to resolve the case.
Mr H explained that upon hearing the threat of police and allegations of tax evasion, he was 
sent into a panic and said he would do whatever he needed to sort the matter. Mr H said the 
fraudster knew he had an accountant and was also able to confirm his address. He recalls 
the fraudster was professional  using all the right words to convince him he was dealing 
with HMRC  yet there was a sense of threat throughout the conversation. The fraudster 
also passed Mr H to what he was told was HMRCs accounts team who guided him through 
how to make the payments and explained what each of them were for. 
Mr H recalls the accounts team told him to make four payments to three different 
departments in order to cover what he owed in tax. In total, Mr H sent £2,098.
After confirming receipt of these payments, the fraudster told Mr H that due to what had 
happened there were also four separate allegations against him which meant he needed to 
pay additional charges. Mr H cant recall them all anymore, but confirmed one was for tax 
evasion and another was for defrauding HMRC. Mr H made a further four payments totalling 
£2,452 to cover these charges. He was told hed likely be able to claim these back from his 
accountant if it was his accountant who was ultimately responsible for the unpaid tax. So the 
total of all payments sent to the fraudster was £4,550.
Overall, Mr H was on the phone to the fraudster for around an hour and a half. During this 
time Mr H has told us the fraudster bombarded him with a number of messages via a 
popular messaging app, which appeared to come from HMRC, containing paperwork 
carrying the HMRC logo, detailing the separate allegations against him  these were sent to 
Mr H prior to each payment being made. Mr H was also asked to send photos of his ID held 
under his chin as proof of his identity. Mr H no longer has copies of the messages or the 
photographs. He says the fraudster deleted the messages shortly after sending them and he 
deleted the photographs because he didnt want to be reminded of what had happened.
Mr H has explained that while the call was ongoing, he was supposed to be meeting his 
mother, so contacted her to explain what was happening. He says his mother reached his 
house after hed already made around four payments to the fraudster. Mr Hs mother was 
uncertain of the legitimacy of the call, so rang Mr Hs brother-in-law. He checked the phone 
number Mr H had been called on and found it was a genuine number for HMRC. However, 
after investigating further online, he also found that the number was linked to scams of this 
nature. Mr Hs mother relayed this information to Mr H and told him to hang up. At this time, 
the fraudster was asking Mr H to make one further payment, but Mr H ended the call without 
making this transfer. It was at this point Mr H realised he may have been the victim of a 
scam.
Mr H called his bank to report the scam the same day  30 January 2020. Metro Bank 
contacted the beneficiary banks that day but was unable to recover any funds. Mr H told 
Metro Bank he was in a state of shock during the call and had never experienced the type of 
feelings he had during that call in his life. He said he felt his mind wasnt functioning properly 
during the call and hed been left feeling vulnerable given it had always been in his nature to 
trust people and he didnt think anyone would have the nerve to do this to someone else.   
Mr H has described the call as exhausting, full of jargon and he felt bamboozled by what he 
was being told. 
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro Bank says one or 
more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Metro Bank has said Mr H made the payments without having a reasonable basis for 
believing they were genuine payments. Metro Bank considers Mr H ought to have done 
more checks to make sure the call hed received was genuinely from HMRC.
However, Metro Bank did recognise it hadnt met the standards it was required to under 
the CRM Code. It said it could have done more to advise Mr H about the risk of scams. 
Metro Bank therefore refunded 50% of his loss, as per the provisions of the CRM Code.
I am also mindful that when Mr H made these payments, Metro Bank should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Mr H feels he should be refunded in full so he referred his complaint to us. An investigator 
upheld Mr Hs complaint  he felt Mr H shouldve been reimbursed in full under the Code and 
due to the nature of the payments, he felt Metro Bank couldve prevented Mr Hs loss. Metro 
Bank didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Im satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro Bank should have refunded the money    
Mr H lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Metro Bank should in any event have intervened when Mr H attempted to make 
payment number four as the payments were unusual and out of character for Mr H and if it had done so, I am satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss 
prevented.
Mr H has received a refund of 50% of his loss already. In the circumstances, Metro 
Bank should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 50% Mr H lost.
The money was taken from Mr Hs current account. It is not clear how Mr H would 
have used the money if Metro Bank had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Metro Bank should also pay: 
- 8% simple interest on the money it shouldve refunded for the first three 
payments Mr H made, from the date Metro Bank decided not to refund Mr H 
under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
- 8% simple interest on the money it shouldve refunded for the fourth payment 
onward that Mr H made, from the date of loss (30 January 2020) to the date of 
payment. 
I have carefully considered Metro Banks representations about whether Mr H had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me 
to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded in the circumstances of this case 
that Mr H failed to take the requisite level of care required for Metro Bank to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster for Mr H 
and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on his thoughts and 
actions.
Im satisfied that Metro Bank has not shown that Mr H lacked a reasonable basis for 
believing the transactions to be genuine because:
Mr H says the fraudster knew information about him, such as his address and that he 
used an accountant. I can understand why, in the circumstances, this gave credence 
to what the fraudster told him about where they were calling from and the charges 
held against him  this was information Mr H thought that only a genuine organisation 
such as HMRC would know. Its reasonable for customers to expect HMRC to be 
privy to this kind of personal and financial information. Firms recognise that 
fraudsters use social engineering techniques in order to gain their victims trust  that 
is one of the main reasons why impersonation scams are so successful.
Mr H has also told us that during the call the fraudster bombarded him with 
messages which appeared to come from HMRC and included HMRC headed letters 
and documentation. Mr H has said these messages set out the allegations against 
him and the reasons the payments needed to be made. This further reinforced his 
belief that he was dealing with HMRC and in the circumstances I dont think this was 
unreasonable. During the call Im satisfied it didnt resonate with Mr H that fraudsters 
can send messages which look like theyre being sent from a genuine organisation 
such as HMRC  - it was only after the call, having had the time and space to reflect 
on what had happened, that Mr H realised fraudsters could impersonate 
organisations in this way. 
Its unfortunate Mr H no longer has copies of these messages as Im unable to 
consider whether there was anything within those messages which ought to have 
caused Mr H to question whether he was speaking to HMRC. But Im persuaded     
Mr H received the type of messages hes described - its consistent with what he told Metro Bank when he first reported the scam, Im aware this is a tactic fraudsters use 
in these types of scams, and I find the reasons Mr H no longer has any record of the 
messages or a copies of the photos he sent to the fraudsters to be plausible - 
particularly given how traumatic he found the whole experience. 
Having listened to the call Mr H had with Metro Bank immediately after the scam, and 
having considered everything Mr H has told us, Im satisfied the fraudster placed a lot 
of emotional pressure on Mr H. Mr H was convinced he would be arrested if he didnt 
make the requested payments. He was on the phone to the fraudster for around an 
hour and a half, talking to different departments while also receiving messages on 
his mobile messaging app at the same time. Hes explained he was completely 
panicked, in a state of shock, and couldnt think clearly. This was of course the 
intention of the fraudster  to disrupt Mr Hs thought process with fear. Its important 
to consider the actions Mr H took against this backdrop.
Metro Bank has suggested the scam was outlandish and commented that Mr Hs 
mother appeared to recognise something was untoward. I think with the benefit of 
hindsight and the removal of the pressured environment, its easier to identify 
elements of the scam that could be considered less believable  Mr H realised after 
the scam that HMRC wouldnt use mobile messaging apps. But as Ive explained, I 
can see why in the moment, and considering the immense pressure Mr H felt under 
to take immediate action, Mr H believed he was following the instructions of an 
organisation of authority. 
Mr Hs mother also contacted another family member for advice, despite not being 
under the same pressure as Mr H, so I dont think it was immediately clear even to 
her that this was a scam. In addition, by the time his mother was involved, Mr H had 
already made several payments to the fraudster and was under their spell. I think by 
the time Mr Hs mother raised concerns, the fraudster had gained enough trust and 
exerted enough fear in Mr H of being arrested that this overshadowed any concerns 
his mother raised.
On balance, in all the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded Mr Hs response 
to the fraudsters instructions and belief that he was dealing with HMRC was 
unreasonable.
In its response to our investigators assessment, Metro Bank commented that this 
type of scam is now well documented and that there have been campaigns run to 
warn consumers about these scams. I think the prevalence of this scam type only 
goes to demonstrate how successful it has been in its aim to defraud its victims. Mr H 
has said he wasnt aware of this scam when he fell victim to it. Im persuaded that   
Mr H wasnt aware of this type of scam  as I think its more likely than not that had 
he been aware, he would have acted differently when contacted by the fraudster. 
However Im mindful that Metro Bank was aware of this type of scam at the time Mr H 
fell victim to it and by not providing a relevant warning to Mr H at the time, missed an 
opportunity to protect him from financial harm. In the absence of any warnings on 
these types of scams from Metro Bank, Mr H was not alive to the possibility he was 
dealing with a fraudster and this is another reason why I dont think he acted 
unreasonably by continuing to engage with the fraudster.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Metro Bank has shown that Mr H lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the transactions in question. It can be difficult for 
consumers to think clearly, and take steps they might otherwise take, in all the 
circumstances Mr H found himself in. Thats not unreasonable and is of course why frauds like this can be so successful. Fraudsters know that fear can often have a negative effect on 
a persons thought process. It can certainly make people take steps that, in the cold light of 
day, they might not otherwise take. On the balance of evidence, Im not satisfied Metro Bank 
has sufficiently considered this feature of the scam in deciding not to reimburse Mr H, and 
Im not persuaded it established that Mr H made the payments without a reasonable basis 
for believing that they were legitimate.
Ive also concluded that Metro Bank couldve prevented some of the payments being made. 
By the time Mr H attempted to make the fourth payment he was making a second payment 
to a new payee within two minutes. And this followed two payments to other new payees 
within a short time frame. This was out of character and unusual activity for Mr H and I think 
there was enough going on here to have caused Metro Bank concern he might be at risk of 
financial harm. I think this overall change in financial behaviour was sufficient for Metro Bank 
to have intervened and asked questions about the payments before processing further 
payments. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr H wouldnt have answered Metro Banks questions honestly 
and in response to his answers, Metro Bank ought fairly and reasonably to have informed  
Mr H that this was a known scam. Had Metro Bank done so, I think Mr H would more likely 
than not have not sent any further payments to the fraudsters and any further losses 
wouldve been prevented. 
I have considered the fact Mr H was on the phone to the fraudsters at the time he made the 
payments and so Metro Bank might not have been able to get through to him. But even if 
this was the case, Metro Bank ought not to have processed the payments until it was 
satisfied Mr H wasnt likely at risk of financial harm.
For clarity, my findings that Metro Bank ought to have prevented Mr H from losing some of 
the money he sent to the fraudster have a limited impact on the outcome of this complaint, 
given I have decided Mr H shouldve been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM 
Code. The impact relates to the interest payable only.
decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Metro Bank PLC. I require Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund Mr H the £2,275 he lost to the scam
For payments one, two and three pay 8% simple interest, from the date Metro Bank 
declined Mr Hs claim under the CRM code to the date of settlement
For payments four, five, six, seven and eight, pay 8% simple interest from the date 
the payments were made (30 January 2020) to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021. 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman