DRN-2779546
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited has unreasonable refused to pay for his 
claim under his motor policy when his vehicle was stolen.
Mr S is represented by his solicitor. But for ease of reference I shall simply refer to Mr S.
  
What happened
On 21 June 2019, Mr S said he attended a building site where one of his workers was due to 
start the following week. He was delivering some materials for this plastering job. The site 
was closed off from the road and public by builders railings.
Mr S said he unloaded some sacks of plastering material including some lime. He said he 
then locked his vehicle and went into the site to talk to the foreman. They went into the 
garage at the back of the site which was being used as a site office/canteen. The foreman 
said Mr S washed his hands. The foreman then asked Mr S to check something which 
necessitated going up scaffolding. Mr S said he left his keys beside the sink in the office and 
went with the foreman up the scaffolding. The office wasnt locked. The scaffolding was out 
of sight of the garage. They were gone about 10 or 15 minutes. When he came down and 
went back into the garage, he saw his keys were missing from the side of the sink. He then 
went out the front and saw his vehicle was missing. 
Mr S made a claim to Ageas, it said that by leaving his keys on the sink it meant he didnt 
take reasonably care as the policy requires so it wouldnt consider or pay his claim. Mr S 
complained but Ageas wouldnt change its stance. So, Mr S brought his complaint to us.
The investigator thought it should be upheld. Ageas didnt agree so Mr S complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
The policy has the following clause on which Ageas is relying to refuse to pay this claim:
5 Taking care of your vehicle
Anyone covered by this policy must take all reasonable steps they can to protect the 
vehicle, and anything in or attached to it, against loss or damage. (This includes 
making sure that all windows, doors, roof openings, removable roof panels or hoods 
are closed and locked, and the keys (or devices needed to lock the vehicle) are not 
left in on the vehicle.) The vehicle must be kept in good working order. We may 
examine the vehicle at any time.
In the first instance as Mr S solicitor explained to Ageas, this clause does not require Mr S 
to keep the keys to the vehicle on his person at all times. And I agree this clause doesnt 
require it and if it did, I would find that to be unreasonable and not part of the industry 
standard for these clauses.  It does however require him, as virtually every other motor 
policy does, to take reasonable care of his vehicle.
As Ageas is aware in order to be deemed as not taking reasonable care, under the case of 
Sofi -v- Prudential Assurance Company Limited (1993) Ageas must show that Mr S 
recognised there was a risk and did nothing to address that risk. In other words that Mr S 
acted recklessly as to the safety of keys for his vehicle. Theres simply no evidence of that in 
this case.
Its clear to me that Mr S was not in a public space but in a workplace with a relatively few 
other workers there. Most importantly none were in the office with him and the foreman at 
the time. Whilst the railings around the site werent locked, they were there.  
The evidence shows that Mr S had no plans to go up the scaffolding with the foreman, it was 
at the foremans request. That element to me is most important. The foremans request to go 
up the scaffolding was not something Mr S was expecting to have to do in dropping off the 
materials. The trouble that just the lost set of keys caused him was substantial, as it was a 
large bunch of keys with not only his own home keys on it but several customers keys too 
so its clear to me, he most likely would not have had no care about them as suggested by 
Ageas. He had just washed his hands, not an unreasonable thing to do given the lime and 
other materials he had just unloaded as agreed by Ageas investigators, so leaving his keys 
on the side then to attend to unexpected the query the foreman had asked him about also 
wasnt unreasonable in my view.
 
It was a large bunch of keys, and he was wearing shorts not work clothes as he had just 
come from a business breakfast meeting, and far more importantly, he was only there to 
drop materials off, not to do a days work. So, I consider on the balance of probability Mr S 
perceived no risk at all in leaving his keys in the office at the back of a site which had railings 
blocking it off from the from the public roadway to quickly look at something the foreman 
required.
My view of what Mr S has told us is also borne out by the conclusions of Ageas 
investigators. His account of what happened is consistent. The investigators said he came 
across as friendly open and cooperative. There was no avoidance of eye contact. They 
deliberately jumped from point to in the interview and there were no issues identified 
consequently with Mr S account. His recall was good, and he came across well. 
Therefore, I dont consider Ageas has shown adequately or at all as required that Mr S 
perceived a risk and then acted recklessly as regards that risk which is what it is required to 
do in order to refuse to deal with this claim. Therefore, I consider it now must deal with his 
claim with a view to paying it with interest subject to the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Ageas refusal to deal with his claim has caused Mr S a considerable and extensive amount 
of trouble and upset. I consider the investigators recommendation for Ageas to pay him 
£200 compensation to be reasonable and in line with what I would have awarded had he not 
done so.
 
My final decisionSo, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the following:
Reconsider Mr S claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy with a view to paying it, and assuming it does pay it, adding interest of 8% 
simple from the date Mr S made his claim to the date it then pays it.
Pay Mr S the sum of £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman