DRN-3413101
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HSBC Life (UK) Limited refused Mrs W critical illness cover.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs W applied for life and critical illness cover with HSBC. The 
application was for about £260,000 of decreasing cover over a 24-year term. 
After considering the application, HSBC informed Mr and Mrs W that they couldnt offer 
Mrs W critical illness cover due to her body mass index (BMI). The option of life only cover 
was declined by Mr and Mrs W.
A complaint was raised by Mr and Mrs W but this was rejected by HSBC. They said they 
review each individual application on its own merit. And while they cant predict what will 
exactly happen to any applicant over the term of a policy, based on their medical history as 
well as medical research and claims experience, certain conditions and factors increase the 
risk of morbidity. They added, as an example, that increased weight is commonly associated 
with an increased risk of conditions such as coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, 
hypertension, stroke and certain cancers. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our investigator didnt think 
HSBC had acted unfairly. He noted Mr and Mrs Ws view that the decision to decline Mrs W 
critical illness cover was harsh but, he explained that HSBCs underwriting criteria was a 
commercial decision for them to make. And he was satisfied that HSBC had considered their 
application in line with it. Furthermore, he didnt think HSBC were fat shaming Mrs W as 
their underwriting criteria is based on a direct correlation of increased weight leading to 
serious health conditions. And HSBC only informed Mr and Mrs W of the decision. So, 
although he understood why it may have been upsetting for Mrs W, he wasnt persuaded 
HSBCs decision was meant to shame her.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the decision made by HSBC to decline Mrs Ws critical illness cover may have 
been upsetting to her. But, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ws application. 
Just as applicants can choose what cover they want to apply for, insurers can likewise 
determine what level of risk they wish to accept. In short, this means what cover they are 
willing to offer or provide  if any  and how much it will cost the policyholder(s). And 
insurers use data when assessing risk by calculating the likelihood of an event occurring. So, 
the more likely an event is to occur, the greater the risk to the insurer which means they will 
either charge a higher premium or not offer cover at all (if they deem such risk too high).
I understand Mr and Mrs W feel HSBCs decision  and their underwriting criteria  is overly 
harsh. But, as HSBC explained, there is a correlation between increased weight and the 
likelihood of suffering from serious health conditions. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to take Mrs Ws BMI into account when assessing their application. 
The level of risk HSBC wish to accept is a commercial decision for them to make. Having 
seen HSBCs underwriting criteria, Im satisfied they considered the application in line with it. 
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs W have been treated unfairly  or differently to someone else 
with the same BMI - here. Because of this, I consider their decision decline Mrs W critical 
illness cover was fair. 
On a final note, Im aware that Mr and Mrs W have suggested that HSBC fat shamed her 
because of this decision. As Ive said, I understand their decision may have been upsetting 
to Mrs W. But I think HSBCs decision was fair and I dont think they communicated it in an 
inappropriate way. 
For the above reasons, I dont think HSBC need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman