DRN-4348986
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his accounts.
What happened 
Mr F had two accounts with Santander - an everyday saver and a current account. On 8 July 
2022, Santander wrote to Mr F asking him to complete some Know Your Customer (KYC) 
checks. On 8 November 2022, Santander wrote to Mr F to say the checks hadnt been 
completed and sent him two cheques for £325.64 (current account) and £15,853.78 
(everyday saver) and closed his accounts.
Santander sent letters to Mr F on 8 August 2022, 7 September 2022, and 7 October 2022. 
Santander sent a SMS text on 23 August 2022.
The cheques werent presented for payment and replacements were sent in February 2022.
Mr F complained. He said hed received one of the letters and visited a branch of Santander 
on 20 September 2022, when he explained to a member of staff that he couldnt complete 
the KYC forms as he was moving house, so he wasnt sure which address to quote. He says 
she told him that would be OK. So - he was surprised that the accounts were then closed. 
He only  learnt that when he visited a branch of Santander on 1 December 2022  he hadnt 
received the letter dated 7 November 2022, or any of the letters since the first one (8 July 
2022). He said his post was being redirected and so he hadnt received all his post.
Mr F says he was in the process of moving and so to be left without any money at that time 
was critical and caused him a lot of stress and anxiety. He had to release funds from his 
other accounts. He asked that his accounts be re-opened.
Santander said they carried out such checks in line with regulatory requirements. Theyd not 
received the information back, and so that led to a decision to close Mr Fs accounts. There 
had been a small error in the address they held on file for Mr F, but hed confirmed he had 
received the initial request letter. Santander said his accounts couldnt be re-opened.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said she couldnt hold 
Santander responsible if post hadnt been delivered, and Mr F had received the first 
information request. Santander had to complete KYC checks as part of their regulatory 
obligations, and their terms and conditions say that can close accounts in certain 
circumstances - so Santander had followed those terms in closing Mr Fs accounts. She said 
Santander had set out what they needed to complete the checks.
Our investigator said that when Mr F had a conversation with a member of staff (he says on 
20 September 2022), that could not be deemed as providing all the information  he needed 
to do that by responding to Santanders written request and completing the forms.
Mr F disagreed. He said the CCTV of his branch visit should be reviewed. He asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint  and so it has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wanted to update their records as regards Mr F. This is common practice in the 
banking industry and is a regulatory requirement - for Know Your Customer purposes. So - 
Santander were entitled to ask Mr F to do that.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that he didnt get any of Santanders letters after the first one 
on 8 July 2022  so I looked particularly at the communications sent by Santander.
Santander have shown us the evidence that letters were sent to Mr F on 8 August 2022, 7 
September 2022, and 7 October 2022. These letters said:
Letters dated 8 August 2022 and 7 September 2022: We recently wrote to you to let you 
know that we need some additional information and documents from you. Its important that 
we receive these so that we can meet UK legal and regulatory obligationsYou have (15 
days) from the date of this letter to return the required information. If we dont receive this 
information before this date we may need to restrict access to your account(s). This will 
mean that you wont be able to withdraw money or make regular or one-off payments from 
your account (this could include card payments, standing orders and Direct Debits).
Letter dated 7 October 2022: Weve tried to contact you several times in the last 90 days to 
request some additional information and documents from you, so that we can meet UK legal 
and regulatory obligations. Unfortunately, as we havent heard from you, weve reluctantly 
had to restrict access to your account. This means you wont be able to withdraw money or 
make regular or one-off payments from your account. This will include card payments, 
standing orders and Direct Debits.
If we still havent received the information by 7 November 2022 well have to close your 
accountin line with the Terms and Conditions on the account.
Santander have also evidenced that they sent a SMS/ text to Mr F on 23 August 2022 about 
the need to complete the information request.
Mr F says he didnt get any of the chaser letters or the text message. He says he was in the 
process of moving house  and had a redirect on his address. Our service takes the 
approach that we can only expect firms to write to customers at the address they hold in 
their records - which I can see Santander did. I accept that the address in Santanders 
records had one letter missing  but the post code was complete and Mr F confirmed he 
received the first letter. So I think Santander acted reasonably in writing to the address they 
had on file  and they also sent a text to Mr F. I cant say whether there was an error made 
by the provider of the post redirect service  and even if there was, I cant in all fairness, hold 
Santander responsible for that.
Mr F argues that he visited the branch on 20 September 2022, advised the cashier he was 
about to change address, and was told he didnt need to complete the information request. 
Its not in dispute he did visit the branch on that day - as he paid in £5,000. There are no 
other notes on his records of anything else that took place  e.g. a discussion about the 
information request. Hes asked that we look at the CCTV of his visit  Ive considered this. 
But if we looked at the CCTV, it wouldnt show if any information was input into his records, or what the conversation may have been. So  I dont consider the CCTV as material in the 
context of this complaint.
So  I consider that Santander did all they could in contacting Mr F. And, when they didnt 
get a response, they decided to close his account. I looked at Santanders terms and 
conditions, and these say they have the right to do so  they say:
You or we may close your account at any time by giving the other notice without giving any 
reason.If we decide to do this well give you at least two months notice (30 days in the 
case of Non-payment Accounts). If there is any money in the account we may transfer that 
money to another account you hold with us or send it to you at the last address we hold for 
you. I can see that Santander gave Mr F 30 days notice of closure (the everyday saver 
account was a non-payment account)  - so Im satisfied they acted in line with the terms 
and conditions.
Mr F has argued strongly in support of his complaint, which I appreciate and have reviewed 
fully. He will therefore be disappointed by my decision, which is that I am not upholding his 
complaint and Santander dont have to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman