DRN-2139873
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about her property insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) as whilst it 
accepted her claim for damaged underground pipes and repaired them, it refused to fix her 
kitchen floor which she felt had been damaged by water leaking from the drains.
What happened
Mrs G arranged a policy with UKI in February 2018. She contacted UKI in May 2019 as 
shed noticed a lump in her kitchen floor. She said she didnt know if this was related to a 
water leak which occurred years before, but shed like someone to come and look at it. 
 
In case there was damaging heave movement occurring, UKI sent a movement specialist to 
the property. He recorded that Mrs G had noted the raised floor level around 18 months 
before. He didnt think though that there had been any recent movement as he noted the 
kitchen had been installed to take account of the floor level, including the lump Mrs G was 
concerned about and there was no sign of any disturbance to the flooring or visible distortion 
to the skirting board. He determined this hadnt resulted from heave of the property. 
Mrs G later had a builder open up part of the floor. A moisture reading was taken and the 
area was found to be wet. Mrs G said she was told that moisture under the property had 
pushed up the dwarf wall situated under the floor, which had caused the floor to rise. She felt 
this must have been caused by a leak. Ultimately, following some further investigations and 
a report Mrs G had obtained at a cost to her, UKI accepted that Mrs Gs drains needed 
repairing and did this. But it didnt accept that any leak had cause the problem to the dwarf 
wall. It believed this had happened naturally over a long period of time as result of normal 
ground moisture. It also noted that Mrs Gs reference to the rise having been noted around 
18 months ago, meant shed first noticed the issue before her policy with it began. 
Mrs G was unhappy and asked that the cost of her report, at least, was reimbursed to her. 
Regarding the kitchen she said UKI should be covering the floor repair as she had never 
been certain when the damage had occurred. She noted that since the drains had been fixed 
her builder had been able to install new flooring, which she thought he likely wouldnt have 
been able to do if the ground had still been wet. Mrs G believed that the presence of leaks 
meant the damage to the kitchen floor was most likely related. She was unhappy about the 
conduct of UKIs drain specialist and a lack of communication from UKIs claims handler. UKI 
apologised for any upset caused and said feedback would be given. But it wouldnt agree to 
settle the claim for Mrs Gs costs. Mrs G complained to us.
When Mrs G complained to us, the kitchen had been fully reinstated. Mrs G told us that prior 
to her removing her kitchen, the lump had seemingly become worse, having got to the 
point where she was unable to move her washing machine.
 
UKI explained that it had originally logged one claim for each suspected cause of damage; 
subsidence, escape of water and damage to underground pipes. But it confirmed that, on 
review, it had amended the claim record to show just one claim. It said the claim record left 
was for an escape of water.
Our investigator, noting the expert reports available, felt UKIs claim outcome had been 
correct. He also felt its apology was sufficient to make up for any upset caused. But he told 
UKI it should amend the claim record to reflect only a claim for accidental damage to 
underground pipes. He also told it that any overpaid excess should be refunded and Mrs Gs 
expert report costs should be reimbursed, plus interest*.
Mrs G remained unhappy. She said shed been trying to get information from UKI as to what 
repairs it actually completed to her drains, she felt some work was outstanding.
UKI said that the claim for damaged pipes and the damage to the kitchen were separate. 
Whilst it confirmed it had not taken a water damage excess from Mrs G, it did not agree to 
change the claim record. It said Mrs Gs report hadnt changed its view on the kitchen 
damage so it shouldnt have to reimburse its cost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mrs G. However, Im not persuaded that UKIs decision 
on the water damage part of the claim is unfair or unreasonable. 
For there to be cover under the policy it isnt just the case that an event covered by the 
policy has to have occurred. Rather it is that an event covered by the policy has to have 
occurred which has most likely caused damage. So, for Mrs G, the fact of leaking drains isnt 
enough to say her claim for the damaged kitchen floor should reasonably succeed. 
Whilst Mrs G believes water leaking from the drains has caused this problem, UKI thinks it 
has been caused gradually from long-term, naturally damp ground conditions below the 
property. I dont think that UKIs view is, on the face of it, unreasonable  this is an old house 
and the evidence UKI had available to it suggested that damage had occurred gradually over 
a long period. Its possible the water escaping the leaking drains has caused the damage  
but Ive not seen anything which makes me think that is most likely the case. 
Further, I take particular note of the expert opinion of UKIs movement specialist. He was 
satisfied that no movement of the floor had occurred during the course of the policy Mrs G 
had with UKI. Mrs Gs comment made later in respect of having become unable to move her 
washing machine doesnt persuade me that the experts opinion was likely wrong. So even if 
Mrs G is right, and it was the water leaking from her drains which caused this damage  it 
seems it most likely happened before UKI was liable for it.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mrs G, I dont think UKI acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it declined her claim. Im not going to make it liable for the 
costs Mrs G incurred in reinstating the kitchen, including its floor. 
Turning to how the claim has been recorded, I note that UKI has removed two claim records 
(one for subsidence and one for accidental damage to underground pipes) and left just one 
for escape of water. Given; UKIs defence to Mrs Gs claim about the cause of the damage 
to her floor, that no water damage excess was taken and that some drainage work was done 
by UKI, I think it stands to reason that the claim record left should be the one for accidental 
damage to underground pipes. Im going to require UKI to change the record.  
Mrs G had to obtain an expert report on her drains. This found they were damaged and this 
caused UKI to send out another of its contractor to re-asses the drains. That contractor 
concurred with the findings in the report Mrs G had provided. UKI then undertook repairs. Its reasonable to expect UKI to reimburse the cost Mrs G incurred for obtaining her report (plus 
interest) as this influenced UKIs actions.
I understand that Mrs G has suffered some distress and inconvenience during her contact 
with UKI on this claim. But Im not persuaded that has all resulted from failures of UKI, 
including any of its agents. And its fair to say that claims like this often take some time to 
resolve with it being a stage by stage process towards finding the cause of any damage. 
Here I see UKI has apologised for Mrs G having felt intimidated by its original drain 
contractor and acknowledged the lack of communication, taking action to prevent this 
occurring again. In the circumstances, I think that is a reasonable response. Im not going to 
make it do anything more. 
Im aware that Mrs G thinks UKI hasnt done all the necessary drain repairs at her home, and 
that shes been trying to obtain confirmation of what work was done. I trust UKI can assist in 
this respect, but if Mrs G continues to remain unhappy with it, she can make a further 
complaint.
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
amend Mrs Gs claim record to reflect just one claim for accidental damage to 
underground pipes.
reimburse Mrs G the cost she incurred obtaining the drain report, plus interest* from the 
date she paid this sum until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs G, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to act in accordance with my 
directions set out in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman