DRN-3691812
The complaint
Mr B complains about the settlement offered by Society of Lloyds (SoL) under a property 
owners insurance claim.
What happened
Mr Bs property is insured by SoL. A claim was made after an escape of water from a 
neighbouring property caused damage to Mr Bs property. SoL accepted liability. 
Mr Bs surveyor put together a scope of works and it was estimated the repairs would cost 
£72,205. SoL didnt agree with the scope of works, and so it wanted to arrange for its own 
surveyor to carry out an inspection and put together its own scope of works. Mr B refused to 
allow this. As an alternative, and in an attempt to resolve the matter, SoL offered Mr B 
£30,000. Mr B refused this offer and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator attempted to mediate an increased settlement of £35,000 between the 
parties. Whilst Mr B said he would accept this, SoL confirmed it wasnt prepared to increase 
its offer of £30,000. Our investigator ultimately concluded that SoL had acted reasonably. 
Mr B disagreed and said he would only accept £35,000. 
In light of the ongoing disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim has been complicated by an earlier escape of water claim, which SoL had 
accepted. SoL paid a cash settlement of £22,500 for that claim, however the repairs had not 
been carried out when the second escape of water happened that is the subject of this 
complaint.
Mr Bs building surveyor put together a scope of works with an estimated repair cost of 
£72,205 (excluding VAT). The costings were done by a quantity surveyor. Mr B accepted 
that SoL could deduct the £22,500 paid for the earlier claim.
Mr B has provided a handwritten quote by a contractor which estimated the repair costs to 
be £72,775 (excluding VAT) based on Mr Bs surveyors scope of works. 
SoLs loss adjuster thought Mr Bs surveyors estimate was significantly overstated in terms 
of both scope and pricing. They estimated the repairs to be just over £16,000. 
I agree with our investigator that an insurer is entitled to validate repair costs claimed, 
particularly when they are for such a large amount, as is the case here. Im therefore 
satisfied that it was reasonable for SoL to refuse to pay Mr Bs claimed costs until it has had 
the opportunity to arrange for its own surveyor to do an inspection. If Mr B is unhappy with 
SoLs settlement offer after it has arranged its own scope of works, he can raise a new 
complaint.  
SoL offered to pay Mr B a settlement of £30,000 in an attempt to resolve the matter. This 
was an arbitrary figure that was some way between the amount each party thought the 
repairs would cost. If Mr B wishes to accept this offer, he should contact SoL directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman