DRN-3016721
The complaint
Ms M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited trading as Vanquis Bank lent irresponsibly when 
it approved her credit card and later increased the credit limit. Ms M also complains that 
Vanquis didnt help her when she experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
In November 2013 Ms M applied for a credit card with Vanquis. Ms Ms income was given as 
£22,000 and she told Vanquis she was a tenant. Vanquis completed a credit search and 
found Ms M had no County Court Judgements. But Vanquis did find Ms M had defaults that 
were around two years old. Ms Ms application was approved with a credit limit of £500.
Between March 2014 and September 2015 Ms Ms credit limit was increased four times, 
reaching £3,500. Vanquis says that each time it increased Ms Ms credit limit it reviewed 
information from her credit file and applied its lending criteria. 
In February 2018 Ms M missed a payment. Throughout 2018 Ms M contacted Vanquis and 
explained she was experiencing difficulties maintaining her payments. Later in the year, Ms 
M told Vanquis her husband had passed away. Vanquis says it offered Ms M a payment 
arrangement which she accepted but further payments werent made. As a result, Ms Ms 
credit card was closed and a default recorded on her credit file. 
More recently, Ms M complained to Vanquis but it didnt agree the decision to lend was 
irresponsible. And Vanquis didnt agree it had failed to provide support when Ms M needed 
it. Ms Ms complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Vanquis had dealt with Ms Ms complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. 
Ms Ms representatives asked to appeal and said Ms M was already in a large amount of 
debt when she applied to borrow funds from Vanquis. Ms Ms representatives also said her 
outstanding unsecured debt increased to around £48,000 during her relationship with 
Vanquis. As Ms Ms representatives asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms Ms complaint falls broadly into two parts Ill start but looking at Vanquis decision to 
approve her credit card and later increase the credit limit. Before a business agrees to lend it 
should carry out proportionate checks to ensure the repayments are sustainable for the 
borrower. Theres no set list of checks a business has to complete. But details from a 
consumers credit file, application and information a business knows about them can all be 
taken into account. Where a business doesnt have enough information to carry out a 
proportionate check it should either ask for more or take the decision to increase the lending. 
Ive considered whether Vanquis had sufficient information available to it to complete 
proportionate checks in this case. 
When Ms M applied, Vanquis looked at her application and noted an income of £22,000. Ms 
Ms credit file showed she had around £10,000 recorded as unsecured debt and had 
defaults on other debts around two years before. Vanquis says it allows some adverse credit 
and the defaults fell within its lending criteria. Vanquis approved Ms Ms credit card a with a 
credit limit of £500. Taking the available information into account, Im satisfied Vanquis did 
carry out proportionate checks and its decision to approve the credit card was reasonable. 
Ive looked at each of the following credit limit increases. Ive also looked closely at the credit 
file information Vanquis had available. I can see that, generally, Ms Ms outstanding credit 
balance figure was reducing over time. In addition, Ms M had no new defaults during the 
period Vanquis increased her credit limit. Vanquis says Ms Ms credit card was well 
maintained during the period it increased her credit limit. I can see some instances of Ms M 
exceeding the credit limit but these werent in the months preceding Vanquis increases. 
Vanquis also says it took the level of repayments Ms M made into account and I can see she 
often paid more than the minimum. 
Vanquis says all the credit limit increases were applied in line with its lending criteria 
following proportionate checks. Im sorry to disappoint Ms M but Im satisfied Vanquis did 
carry out proportionate checks. I havent found Vanquis lent irresponsibly. 
Ms M also complains that Vanquis failed to provide support while she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Vanquis has forwarded call recordings from 2018, when Ms M made 
contact and asked for help. Ive listened to the calls and I thought Vanquis did provide 
positive and sympathetic support. At various points it agreed to waive or refund fees. It also 
placed Ms Ms account on hold and agreed a fixed payment plan. I understand Ms M went 
through an extremely difficult time and but I thought Vanquis offered support and treated her 
fairly. 
Ive noted Ms Ms representatives response to the investigator and that she had around 
£48,000 of debt during the period in question. But the information Vanquis had didnt show 
that. The credit file information showed Ms M owed around £12,000 in open unsecured 
debts at the end of 2013. In September 2015, when the final credit limit increase was 
approved, Ms Ms credit file showed that figure had reduced to around £10,000. I also note 
the total value of the defaults recorded on Ms Ms credit file also reduced over this period. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M but as I havent found that Vanquis lent irresponsibly and Im 
satisfied it dealt with her complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman