DRN-3342114
The complaint
Mrs F complained about how UK Insurance handled her claim under her motor insurance
policy.
What happened
Mrs Fs daughter was a named driver on Mrs Fs policy. She was involved in an incident
when a tree branch fell on her car while a third party was working on the tree. UK Insurance
paid for the cars damage to be repaired at a cost of over £2,000.
UK Insurance accepted that the incident wasnt Mrs Fs daughters fault. But they said as
follows. They still had to record the incident as mixed fault on internal and external motor
insurance databases as this was normal insurance practice for when an insurer cant recover
their claim costs from the third party who was at fault for an incident. UK Insurance said
theyd been unable to recover their costs from the third party whod been working on the
tree, and it was at their discretion not to try to pursue him further. But they did allow Mrs Fs
no claims discount (NCD) in accordance with their policy term which applied if a car were hit
by an object. And as gesture of goodwill UK Insurance also waived her payment of her policy
excess of £750. She would otherwise have had to pay her excess regardless of liability.
Mrs F felt that UK Insurance hadnt tried hard enough to recover their costs from the third 
party. Shed given them the third partys details right away, together with copies of texts in
which he admitted liability and said he had business liability insurance. She said that the
mixed fault record would affect her and her daughters future driving record and increase
their premiums in future, and she didnt think this was fair. And if shed known that making a
claim would have had that result, she wouldnt have made the claim at all, but would have 
dealt with her cars repairs privately. She wanted UK Insurance to compensate her and to 
change the incident to no fault on insurance databases.
The investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that,
although UK Insurance had discretion under the policy to settle the case as they wished,
they hadnt acted reasonably about recovering their costs. He recommended that they mark
the claim as non-fault in the databases and pay Mrs F £100 in compensation. UK Insurance
didnt agree to that. And Mrs F wanted compensation for any premium increases too. So I
was asked to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 February 2022, upholding Mrs F s complaint. Both Mrs 
F and UK Insurance have since commented, and I refer to those below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide who is at fault for causing an accident, as this is the role of the courts.
However here, UK Insurance accept that Mrs Fs daughter didnt cause the incident and that
the third party did. But they decided not to sue the third party to recover their costs. They
said the policy entitled them to do this as they could settle any claim as they wished.
I see that the policy says on page 26 general condition 3 that UK Insurance do have the right
 to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name,
or in the name of any other person covered by this policy..
This is a common term in insurance policies and so UK Insurance can do this whether Mrs F
agrees with it or not. We dont object to such a term provided an insurer can show theyve
carried out a proper investigation and reached their decision in a fair and reasonable way.
So even though UK Insurance had discretion under the policy, I have to look at whether UK
Insurance acted fairly in applying it.
Its true that the recording of a claim as either fault or non-fault doesnt indicate whether a
customer caused an incident or not. And it is normal insurance practice to record a claim as
fault or mixed fault if the insurer cant recover their costs of the claim from the third party
who did cause it. I can see that Mrs F and her daughter feel upset by this, as the incident
happened through no fault of their own. But that doesnt mean that its wrong for an insurer
to record it this way.
But UK Insurance have to have acted reasonably. Mrs F thinks they havent because of the
above evidence she gave them about the third party. I can see that hed offered to Mrs F to
deal with her repair costs without involving insurers but then ended contact with Mrs F when
she said she would involve UK Insurance. That was around the start of the pandemic in the
UK.
UK Insurance thought that they had acted reasonably. They said theyd tried to pursue the
third party. I can see from their files that they did try. They left phone messages for him,
emailed him, and wrote to him, using the information Mrs F had given them. But although
they first did this when Mrs F reported the incident, they then didnt follow it up until some
months later when Mrs F followed them up about it. And though they later made some other
tries, the third party still didnt reply. So UK Insurance decided it wasnt economic to sue him.
Mrs F said she had only wanted to proceed with her claim and get her car repaired if UK
Insurance were sure they could recover from the third party. But she had to consent to the
repairs first because UK Insurance said they could only recover once the full cost of the
repair was known.
But UK Insurance felt that Mrs F hadnt suffered any financial loss because of their decision.
They felt shed still have gone ahead with the claim even if shed known UK Insurance
wouldnt recover their costs from the third party, because of the high cost of paying for the
repairs herself. But Im not persuaded by that, because I can see from UK Insurances file
that Mrs F held off until a few months after the incident before authorising UK Insurance to
do the repairs, waiting to see that UK Insurance were contacting the third party.
Also UK Insurance said they hadnt made any large incident-related increase to Mrs Fs
premium and it didnt affect her daughters premium because she was no longer a named
driver. They felt that the mixed fault record either didnt affect the premium, or didnt affect it
very much, and it wasnt their responsibility how other insurers viewed it. Mrs F disputes that
the mixed fault record had no effect on premiums and said that adding her daughter as a
named driver would have been a higher premium. But in any event, Im satisfied that UK
Insurance compensated for any change to their own premiums by waiving the £750 excess,
which Mrs F would otherwise have had to pay.
UK Insurance also said that they decided not to sue the third party for recovery of the claim
costs because they had no third party insurer to recover from, as they would have had if it
had been a car crash situation. And they said that while they would often still litigate against
a third party who didnt co-operate, they didnt here because of the impact of the pandemic
on access to legal advisers and the courts at the time. They felt that it was less of acommercial decision than one forced on them by circumstances.
Clearly the pandemic impacted access to legal advice and the court process. But the law
permits court action in such cases for several years from an incident. Even though the third
party did not cooperate, UK Insurance had evidence, by way of copy texts, that he had
admitted liability and had liability insurance. Often an insurer can instruct investigation
agents to find out who a third partys liability insurer is and ask their legal advisers for advice
as to the prospects of success in suing for recovery. Even if these options were not available
to UK Insurance right away, because of the pandemic, I dont think they had to decide right
away. Instead of waiting to see if they could perhaps seek recovery later, UK Insurance
closed the claim within about five months of the incident. So Im not persuaded that it was
reasonable for UK Insurance to decide as quickly as they did.
And though UK Insurance made a concession to Mrs F by waiving her policy excess, I dont
think that recognises the longer-term impact of the mixed fault record on the future insurance
costs for Mrs F and her daughter. And so I think that UK Insurance should remove the fault
claim from her internal and external records and mark the claim as non-fault. I dont require
UK Insurance to refund any additional premiums that they have charged since the incident,
because I havent been shown that that these would have exceeded the £750 excess, they
waived, and which Mrs F would otherwise have been liable to pay. But I think that UK
Insurance should provide a letter to Mrs F and her daughter stating the change in claims
history, which they can give to any new insurer, so that any new insurer may correctly rate
the risk and if necessary, refund any increase in their premium from when the incident
happened .
Its also clear that Mrs F has been caused some trouble, upset and inconvenience by the
way UK Insurance has handled matters. So I think that its fair for UK Insurance to pay her
£100 in compensation for this.
UK Insurance replied to the provisional decision with an analysis of the difficulties which 
would have been involved in them proving that the third party was responsible for the 
incident. Their inference is that even if they had done that liability analysis at the time, theyd 
still have decided it wasnt economical to try to recover their costs from the third party. But 
Im not persuaded by that. For example, they didnt try to identify the third partys liability 
insurer or enter into discussion with them, so they dont know what might have happened 
there.   
UK Insurance  also said that their changing the database record to non-fault would not 
guarantee that Mrs F  or her daughters future premiums wouldnt be affected, because it 
would still show that cost were not recovered, and some insurers now include no-fault claims 
in their risk assessment anyway. They thought that because the incident occurred , it had to 
be recorded on the relevant database so other insurers could assess the risk. 
Clearly the database record should show that the incident occurred, but in these 
circumstances its fair and reasonable that it should also show that there was no fault on the 
drivers part, so that insurers can also take that into account in assessing risk.  So I maintain 
my view that UK Insurance  should change the database. 
Mrs F mentioned that she felt shed paid more for her daughters premiums since the 
incident , and she would have liked compensation for that, though she doesnt know how 
much more it was. In these circumstances, I think that its enough that UK Insurance waived 
her policy excess. It may also be that if Mrs F shows to her insurers the letter UK Insurance  
are to give her and her daughter that may, at those insurers discretion, lead to a downwards 
premium readjustment.   Putting things right 
I think that UK Insurance should put things right as below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above its my final decision that I intend to uphold this
complaint and I require UK Insurance to:
Remove the mixed fault claim from Mrs F and her daughters internal and external
insurance database records and mark the claim as non-fault
Give Mrs F and her daughter a letter stating the change in claims history which Mrs F
and her daughter can then give to any future insurer as evidence of their correct
claims history
Pay Mrs F £100 compensation of to reflect the distress and inconvenience their
actions have caused Mrs F
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
UK Insurance must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mrs F accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If UK Insurance consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs F how much they have taken off, and give 
Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
