DRN-3411764
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the refund they received from AXA Insurance UK Plc in 
relation to their travel insurance policy following cancellation of their trip.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs B have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. They planned a trip with departure and return dates of 22 April 2020 and          
2 May 2020 respectively. In February 2020, they purchased an upgrade to the policy to 
cover Mr Bs medical conditions. 
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office advised 
against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Bs intended destination. I understand that 
Mr and Mrs Bs travel provider cancelled their trip and subsequently refunded the trip 
costs to Mr and Mrs B.  
In July 2020, Mr and Mrs B asked AXA for a refund of the additional premium they paid 
to upgrade their cover. AXA refunded 65% of the additional premium. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt think that was fair. They say that AXA incurred no risk. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the relevant rules 
and guidance about cancellation rights and how they applied in this case. The 
investigator also set out the term of the contract of insurance which relates to 
cancellation. She explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer starts to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. That means that its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premium 
relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator said that what happened here didnt make it impossible for the contract 
of insurance to be performed. That was because cover under the policy for Mr Bs 
medical conditions started in February 2020 and the policy covered various risks from 
that date.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances that arose 
here and thought that the refund of 65% of the additional premium Mr and Mrs B paid 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the upgrade was solely 
based on the higher risk arising out the Mr Bs health on the trip. Mr and Mrs B say that 
as the trip was cancelled, the upgrade wasnt used at all. They want a 100% refund of 
the additional premium they paid for the upgrade. 
Mr and Mrs B have also expressed concern about how AXA handled their complaint. Our 
service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the 
additional points that Mr and Mrs B have raised about the handling of their complaint 
because it isnt a regulated activity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified and set out the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says 
as follows:
General conditions applicable to the whole policy
[]
3. Cancellation
[]
If You have purchased an Upgrade and within 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule, 
You find that it does not meet Your requirements You may cancel Your Upgrade by 
returning the Upgrade schedule to Us. We will refund any premium You have paid for 
Upgrades or to obtain cover for Medical Conditions in full provided You have not travelled. 
For cancellation occurring after 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule no refund of 
premium will be made. [] 
Im not upholding this complaint because:
The policy upgrade was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for AXA to offer a 
refund. 
The contract of insurance says that theres no refund for upgrade cancellations after 
the 14 day cooling-off period. I think that AXA is entitled to rely on that. 
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. The policy didnt only cover Mr Bs medical conditions during the intended 
trip. It also provided cover if, for example, Mr and Mrs B had to cancel their trip 
because of Mr Bs medical conditions. AXA covered the risk of that from the date    
Mr and Mrs B took out the upgrade in February 2020. So, it isnt accurate to say that 
AXA incurred no risk here. 
Im satisfied that AXA has demonstrated theres a material unevenness in the way 
the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that it  hasnt treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly or unreasonably. Considering everything, I think that AXAs refund of 65% of 
the additional premium is fair and reasonable and I dont direct it to refund any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman