DRN-4015861
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the service she received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in
connection with the closure of her savings account.
What happened
Mrs B held a savings account with Lloyds. She says she spoke to Lloyds on the phone and
told the call handler that she wanted to close the account and withdraw the balance. The call
handler told Mrs B that she would need to go into the branch to do this. Mrs B says it was
arranged during the phone call that she would go to the branch on a particular day. But when 
she got to the branch, the staff there werent expecting her. They said she couldnt close the 
account and withdraw the cash without an appointment. But Mrs B thought an appointment 
had been made for her and was annoyed that shed had a wasted trip.
She went home and called Lloyds to raise a complaint. She was told that the account had
already been closed. There had been a significant amount of money in the account, but Mrs
B hadnt received it. She didnt know what had happened to the money and didnt have
access to it at this point. She was very distressed, which exacerbated her health conditions.
Lloyds responded to the complaint and said it should have made an appointment for Mrs B
at the branch. It apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid £40 into her current
account. Lloyds then sent Mrs B a cheque for the savings account balance. But Mrs B wasnt
happy about this as she says she had asked for cash. She says that, by this point, she
hadnt had access to her funds for several days. She paid the cheque into her current
account and then withdrew the cash at the branch.
Mrs B remained unhappy about the situation and asked this service to look at the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2023 indicating my intention to uphold the 
complaint and award Mrs B further compensation of £210. Lloyds accepted the provisional 
decision. But Mrs B was disappointed and said that the compensation didnt reflect the 
distress she had experienced. She asked me to consider raising the award to at least £750. 
Im now making a final decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Bs comments about the impact of not being able to access her funds 
and Ive thought about everything again. Ill comment on this in more detail below. But I 
havent changed my mind about the appropriate amount of compensation here. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs B, but Im going to uphold the complaint in the way I indicated in my 
provisional decision. My reasons are set out below.
Lloyds says an appointment was needed to close Mrs Bs account and withdraw the
balance. It says that, because of the amount of money in the account, the branch needed
notice of the withdrawal to ensure enough funds were available on the day. Lloyds accepts
that the agent Mrs B spoke to on the phone gave the impression that an appointment had
been booked for her at the branch on 13 September 2022. But no appointment had been
made. Lloyds says that it should have made an appointment for Mrs B. So, I dont need to
decide that point. Instead, my decision focuses on the impact of this and whether Lloyds has
done enough to put that right.
When Mrs B attended the branch on 13 September 2022, the staff said they couldnt deal
with her request (to close the account and withdraw the balance) as she didnt have an
appointment. But, when she called Lloyds later that day, she was told that her account had
already been closed. This is confirmed by her statement, which shows that the account was
closed on 12 September 2022. I think its understandable that Mrs B was shocked at hearing
this. Shed been led to believe that it wasnt possible to close the account without an
appointment. She was concerned about what had happened to the money in the account.
Mrs Bs statement shows the funds as having been paid out on 12 September 2022, leaving
a zero balance. But Mrs B didnt receive the funds on 12 September 2022. Lloyds raised a
cheque on 21 September 2022 and posted it to Mrs B that day. Mrs B says she received it
on 23 September 2022. I find that Lloyds hadnt told Mrs B it would send a cheque or when
this would happen. And I havent seen anything which explains why it took nine days for the
cheque to be raised. I dont think it was reasonable that it took this long.
Lloyds responded to the complaint on 19 September 2022. The final response letter dealt
with the fact that no appointment had been made for Mrs B. It went on to confirm that her
account was now closed. But it didnt make any reference to the account balance or how this
would be paid to Mrs B. So, until she called Lloyds on 23 September 2022 (the same day
she received the cheque), Mrs B didnt know what had happened to the funds and wasnt
able to access them. She says this was very distressing and I think thats understandable.
Mrs B is unhappy that the funds were sent to her by cheque. She says she made it clear
from the outset that she wanted to withdraw the balance as cash. It seems to have been this
requirement for cash that made the branch appointment necessary. The account was closed
in between Mrs Bs initial phone call and the unsuccessful branch visit. So, the branch visit
clearly wasnt necessary in order to close the account. But Mrs B would have needed to go
to the branch to withdraw cash and Lloyds notes confirm that notice was needed because of
the amount involved. So, I think Lloyds knew that Mrs B wanted the money as cash.
She received a cheque instead. This was paid into Mrs Bs current account in the branch on
30 September 2022. In the meantime, Mrs B had referred the complaint to this service. The
print-out from the branch says that the cheque was due to clear by the end of 3 October
2022. Mrs B withdrew the funds on 4 October 2022 in the branch, with authorisation from the
branch manager. So, she withdrew the funds at the earliest opportunity after they had
cleared into her account.
Im satisfied that, if she had been able to do so, Mrs B would have withdrawn the cash from
her savings account in the branch on 13 September 2022. The reason she couldnt do that
was because no appointment had been made, even though Mrs B thought it had. Lloyds
accepts that it should have made the appointment. But, even after the issue came to light on
13 September 2022, Lloyds still didnt make an appointment for Mrs B.
It told her that her account had been closed but didnt tell her what had happened to the
balance. As I explained above, I find that Lloyds knew Mrs B wanted to withdraw the funds
as cash. But it sent her a cheque. This wasnt sent to her until nine days after the account
was closed. Mrs B then had to visit the branch to pay in the cheque and wait for it to clear.
So, although her account was closed on 12 September 2022, she couldnt withdraw the cash
until 4 October 2022. I dont think Lloyds is necessarily responsible for the delay in thecheque being cashed. But, with the possible exception of those seven days, I think Lloyds
actions caused a delay in Mrs Bs funds being available to her.
I think it was understandable that Mrs B was worried about what had happened to the funds
up until she received the cheque. I dont think that was fair.
Putting things right
For these reasons, I think Lloyds needs to pay some further compensation to Mrs B.  Its 
very difficult to put a monetary value on the stress and inconvenience caused by a situation 
like this. Ive thought carefully about how much this should be and Ive considered the 
comments from Mrs B in response to the provisional decision. She explained that she 
suffered considerable distress as a result of being unable to access her savings. She offered 
to provide medical evidence of this, but I dont think I need to see that here. I dont doubt 
what Mrs B says about how she was affected by the experience. 
As well as aggravating her health issues, the situation caused Mrs B worry about what had 
happened to her funds. She didnt know what had happened until she received the cheque. 
And then she wasnt able to access the funds until the cheque cleared. Mrs B explained how 
she is dependent on her savings and I sympathise with the situation in which she found 
herself. But I havent seen evidence of any specific detriment she suffered through not 
having access to the funds over that period. And I note there was a delay of one week 
between Mrs B receiving the cheque and paying it in, which I cant attribute to Lloyds. I note 
that the branch manager authorised the cash withdrawal on 4 October 2022, so that Mrs B 
could withdraw the cash as soon as the funds had cleared.
Having thought about everything again, I havent changed my mind about the appropriate 
level of compensation. I still think £250 is fair in the circumstances here. I realise this isnt as 
much as Mrs B would like and Im sorry to disappoint her. But our awards arent intended to 
punish a business and I think this amount reflects the impact of Lloyds mistake and is in line 
with our general approach.
Lloyds has already paid £40 to Mrs B. So, Im directing it to pay her a further £210.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay further 
compensation of £210 to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman