DRN-2604449
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs N are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined their commercial and 
residential landlord buildings claim for water damage and voided their policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs N took out their policy in June 2019. This was for a residential block of flats 
and the type of tenant described in the policy schedule was one professional working tenant.
In March 2020 Mr B and Mrs N made a claim to AXA in respect of water damage. Mr B said 
he had lost bookings which caused AXA to investigate what type of lettings were in place. It 
noted that the block was listed on hotel websites as short term (one day plus) serviced 
apartments. And Mr B and Mrs Ns broker confirmed that they were serviced apartments. 
Mr B said they had originally been let apartments but they had converted them to serviced 
apartments. He understood that he should have told AXA about the change
AXA said that it wouldnt have offered a policy had it known the change in the nature of the 
lettings so it voided the policy and declined the claim.
On referral to this service our investigator said that in compliance with their duty under the 
Insurance Act 2015 to make a fair presentation of the risk, Mr B and Mrs N should have told 
AXA about the change in nature of the lettings.
Mr B replied that they had slowly changed the apartments to serviced apartments but that 
three of them were still on long term lets. He appreciated that he should have told AXA about 
this so didnt expect it to pay the whole loss, only half the loss. He expected AXA to be more 
understanding.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Mrs N bought their policy through an independent broker. The policy was applied 
for online through a trade website. The website gives options for disclosing the nature of the 
letting, and one professional working tenant was selected. In the course of the claim Mr B 
claimed for lost bookings. This caused AXA to investigate further and it found that the block 
was advertised on hotel websites as an aparthotel with bookings offered from one night.
Although Mr B says that some apartments are still on long let I think the majority are as 
described on the hotels website.
AXA said it would not have offered a policy had Mr B and Mrs N told it of the nature of the 
lettings, or the change when it occurred. It has shown us the relevant part of its underwriting 
guide.
I think the policy was unsuitable for this type of letting. The website does not offer any 
alternatives which would apply to Mr B and Mrs Ns circumstances. I dont know how they 
described the letting to their broker but it appears to me that he wouldnt have put forward 
the AXA policy had he known. 
Mr B admits that he knew he should have told AXA about the changes and for that reason 
doesnt expect it to pay the whole claim. Whilst its up to AXA what it does, it has shown us it 
wouldnt have offered a policy had it known about the change in the nature of the lettings. 
This was a fundamental change in the nature of the policy. Whilst Mr B says the apartments 
were slowly changed from August 2019, by March 2020 the majority of them had changed. 
This does indicate to me an intention to change which should have been advised to AXA 
from the outset.
As AXA wouldnt have offered a policy it is entitled to void the policy i.e. cancel it as if it had 
never existed, and I cant say that this was unfair in the circumstances of this case. 
Especially as Mr B and Mrs N were aware they should have told AXA about this. AXA has 
refunded the premium but I dont think it would be appropriate to require it to take any other 
action.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman