The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax opened a Help to Buy ISA in his 
name instead of his daughters. 
What happened
On 27 November 2019 Mr H used his mobile banking app to apply for a Help to Buy ISA. Mr 
H says that he input his daughters details into the application he completed via the app and 
the account was approved. Halifax sent Mr H an email on 27 November 2019 when the 
application was complete. The email thanked Mr H for opening his new Help to Buy ISA. 
In March 2020 Mr H complained as he found the Help to Buy ISA was in his name, not his 
daughters. by this point, the Help to Buy ISA had been closed to new customers so his 
daughter wasnt able to obtain one. Halifax responded on 12 May 2020 and said that as Mr 
H applied via his mobile banking app the account was set up in his name. Halifax said that 
the documents it sent him gave the details of the applicant, which was Mr H. Halifax offered 
Mr H £75. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service and said his daughters details were still populated 
in the mobile banking app. An investigator looked at Mr Hs complaint but thought Halifax 
had dealt with it fairly. Mr H asked to appeal and said as he wasnt a first time buyer he didnt 
qualify for the Help to Buy ISA product. Mr H also reiterated that his daughters details were 
still showing when he starts a savings account application via his mobile banking app. As Mr 
H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax says that as Mr H was logged into his online banking profile, via his app, his details 
were used for the Help to Buy ISA application on 27 November 2019. Mr H accepts that he 
was logged into his mobile banking app when he applied but has told us he input his 
daughters details. I dont doubt what Mr H has said, but Halifax has confirmed that when the 
application was processed by its systems it was done so using Mr Hs details, not his 
daughters. So whilst I understand it wasnt Mr Hs intention to apply for a Help to Buy ISA in 
his own name, thats what happened on 27 November 2019. 
Mr H has told us that his mobile banking app still contains his daughters national insurance 
number when he opens it. Halifax has confirmed that only Mr H can apply for products using 
his mobile banking app so if his daughters details are still showing, I would recommend he 
contacts the bank to have her details removed. 
DRN-2425789The application Mr H completed was successful and Halifax sent him confirmation by email 
on 27 November 2019. The email says Hello Mr H. Welcome to your new Help to Buy: ISA. 
Please read an keep this important information. Ive read the confirmation email Halifax sent 
in full. It only refers to Mr H and nowhere does it refer to his daughter. The email 
confirmation says  Your account is now open and ready for you to start saving. Whilst I 
understand this wasnt what Mr H thought he was applying for, I think the email is clear in 
showing whos name the Help to Buy ISA was set up in. Im satisfied Halifax told Mr H the 
ISA was set up in his name. That information isnt buried in the fine print so I think Halifax 
could reasonably have expected Mr H to make contact if the name on the account wasnt 
right. 
Mr H contacted Halifax in March 2020 to complain but by that point the Help to Buy ISA 
product had closed to new members. But, Im satisfied Halifax made the details of the new 
account it set up clear to Mr H when it emailed him on 27 November 2020. 
I agree that it is confusing that Mr H was able to input his daughters details to the 
application he completed using his mobile banking app. Halifax has confirmed that its 
systems will always use the details of the customer whos online banking profile is used to 
complete the application and thats what happened here. Whilst I agree this system issue is 
confusing, as Ive said above, Halifax sent clear information confirming whos name the Help 
to Buy ISA was in on 27 November 2020. If that wasnt correct, Mr H could have contacted 
Halifax before the Help to Buy ISA product closed to new members. 
Mr H has also said that he didnt qualify for a Help to Buy ISA as he wasnt a first time buyer. 
But the product wasnt sold to Mr H on an advised basis and Halifax didnt recommend he 
open the ISA. The application was completed and details confirmed by Halifax vt enauk.  
Halifax offered Mr H £75 when it responded to his complaint. Whilst I agree that the 
application process wasnt straight forward, I think the £75 offer Halifax has made fairly 
reflects the impact of the situation on Mr H. As Im satisfied Halifax has made an offer that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to take any further action. I 
leave it to Mr H to decide whether to accept Halifaxs offer. If Mr H wishes to accept, he has 
the option of contacting Halifax directly or asking our investigator to do that. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman