DRN-2194265
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc charged him interest on two credit card payments 
he made in September 2019.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr D opened a Sainsburys Bank credit card account. At the time, the bank had 
a 0% interest offer on balance transfers for 22 months. Mr D arranged a balance transfer to 
take advantage of that offer.
In September 2019 Mr D used his credit card to make two payments to a holiday company. 
Shortly after making the payments, and with the intention of avoiding interest on them, he 
paid corresponding amounts to his credit card account. He expected those payments to be 
allocated to purchase payments, removing them from his account before interest was 
applied to them. Instead, they were used to reduce the balance transfer and interest was 
applied to the payments.
Mr D thought that this wrong, since the terms of the account said that payments would be 
allocated first to the part of the debt that attracted the highest rate of interest. So, he said, 
the credits he paid to the account should have been applied against the holiday payments, 
not the balance transfer. In total the bank applied interest of just under £100 on the holiday 
purchase.
When Mr D contacted the bank, however, it said that it had applied interest in line with the 
account terms. That was because, when Mr D made the payments to his account, the 
holiday payments hadnt appeared on his monthly statement. The payments were therefore 
applied to reduce the balance as it appeared on the previous statement. It wouldnt refund 
the interest it had charged but did agree to place a waiver on any further purchase interest 
until the 0% balance transfer rate was due to end.
Mr D referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. Whilst he 
acknowledged that the account terms said that payments would be applied towards 
balances that appeared on the monthly account statement, it was unfair that Mr D had been 
charged interest because he had, in effect, made the payments too early. He recommended 
that the interest be refunded. Sainsburys Bank didnt accept the investigators findings and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
I noted that current regulations require credit card providers to allocate payments first to the 
part of any debt that is subject to the highest rate of interest. In the past lenders had often 
done the opposite, leaving borrowers unable to repay more expensive debt, which debt at 
preferential rates of interest was reduced. 
I noted too that the account terms included: 
If you do not pay off the full outstanding balance each month, we will use any payments that 
you make to us to pay off the transactions that appear on your statements starting with those 
transactions on which we charge the highest rate of interest. We'll then pay off transactions 
charged at the next highest rate and so on down to the lowest rate of interest     
I was satisfied that Sainsburys Bank had calculated and applied interest in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions. The reason Mr Ds payments werent immediately applied to 
reduce the purchase debt, however, was that they were made before those payments had 
appeared on a monthly statement. Payments were used to pay off transactions that had 
appeared on the previous months statement, not those that would appear on the statement 
for the following month. At the time the payments were made, it wouldnt have been possible 
to know for certain whether the purchase transactions would be subject to the highest rate of 
interest. That would depend on what other transactions and payments Mr D might make 
before the next statement. 
I acknowledged however that, if Mr D had waited until the purchase transactions appeared 
on a statement before making a payment, they would have incurred interest up to that point. 
Once Mr D used his card to make purchase transactions, it would have been very difficult to 
avoid incurring any interest on them at all. 
In conclusion, I thought that the banks offer to waive interest on any further purchase 
transactions during the period of the 0% interest offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt feel that my provisional decision was fair. He felt he was being penalised for 
doing the right thing in making the payments before they incurred any interest.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that Sainsburys Bank applied interest fairly 
and in line with the account terms. I do of course understand Mr Ds frustration here. He was 
clearly aware that his purchase transactions could attract interest and took steps that he 
believed would avoid or at least minimise the impact of that.
Unfortunately, the only way for Mr D to avoid paying any interest at all on purchase 
transactions was, it seems, not to use the same credit card to make them as he had used for 
the balance transfer. I note that some consumer organisations advise against using the 
same card for purchases and balance transfers. The regulatory changes Ive mentioned 
mean that consumers who use a card for purchases and balance transfers now pay less 
interest, but they are still likely to pay some. 
I dont agree however that the bank has misled Mr D here. Rather, I believe hes made 
perfectly understandable assumptions about the way payments will be applied, but without 
identifying that no payments are applied until they appear on a statement. I cant fairly find 
the bank at fault for that.
For these reasons, I believe that Sainsburys Banks offer here is fair in all the 
circumstances.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Sainsburys Bank Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman