DRN-1978613
The complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) by Plane Saver Credit Union Limited (PSCU) to Ms A from 2002 to 2011 in respect 
of 11 loans.
What happened
Ms A applied for 11 loans with PPI from 2002 to 2011. She said she had a good 
professional relationship with a staff member (Ill call her D) working at PSCU. Ms A said 
she didnt see policy booklets or insurance details; the paperwork for her loans was 
prepared quickly by D and without fuss, so Ms A only had to sign documents when they 
were presented to her. Ms A said she did not see any insurance details at the time of 
each sale. Ms A concludes the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that the policies were 
not suitable for Ms A and she hadnt been given enough clear information to make an 
informed choice. 
PSCU disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note 
on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I have decided to uphold Ms As complaint for the reasons set out below.
PSCU said the PPI was bought from a sales representative at a meeting. They were all 
advised sales so PSCU had to makes sure the policies were suitable for Ms A and it had to 
give Ms A enough clear information so she could make an informed choice.
PSCU said the loan agreements show that Ms A signed to have PPI added to each loan 
account. I have looked through all the loan agreements very carefully. The 8 loan 
agreements taken out in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2007 show Ms A signed saying I wish to 
have my loan covered with Payment Protection Insurance. Although there is nothing on 
these agreements to confirm what PPI information was given to Ms A to explain the 
terms and conditions. PSCU added it sometimes sent the policy with full details of the 
insurances. But I think that would have been after a sale. 
The 3 loan agreements taken out in 2006, 2010 and 2011 show that Ms A signed saying 
she had received, read and understood either a PPI Booklet and/or a Policy Summary. 
PSCU confirmed their loan documents are concise and to the point; it said it is not an 
extensive document that Ms A would have to spend hours reading through and the one-
pager loan agreement mentioned PPI  so I think obtaining a loan was a quick process. 
However, Ms A said she didnt see insurance details before signing any of the 
agreements, particularly as her attention was probably focussed on getting a loan. And 
she said the loan document was always prepared by D and ready for Ms A to sign. 
So, in respect of all loans, I think it is possible that Ms A may have continued with her 
purchases without being aware of the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). 
And I dont know exactly what she was told or when by staff member, D. So I think PSCU 
did something wrong in the way it sold PPI to Ms A.
I also looked carefully at the policy which PSCU said was attached to all 11 loans. Under 
the exclusion clause, Ms A wouldnt have been able to make a claim for any condition 
she had at the start of the policy.
This is important because Ms A has confirmed she had a pre-existing medical condition. 
She was diagnosed with it around 1993 after several difficult lifetime events and had later 
taken six months off work in the past for it. The possible effect is that Ms A wouldnt have 
been covered by the PPI policy if she needed to make a claim due to the pre-existing 
medical condition. 
As Ms A was suffering from a medical condition, she may have been receiving treatment 
to control it and it was likely to continue. Its also clear to me she would have been aware 
of her condition at the time of each sale. 
So I think the exclusion clause meant the policy was not suitable for Ms As needs and this 
clause should have been highlighted to her more clearly. I am satisfied that PSCU 
probably didnt highlight this significant feature in a clear way to Ms A during the sales. As 
a result, this was a failing in each sale. I think that if Ms A had been properly informed 
about the exclusion, she wouldnt have gone ahead with buying the PPI policy given her 
medical circumstances at the time.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold on Ms As 11 loans, so I 
uphold this complaint. I think PSCU has to put things right for Ms A.
Putting things right
Plane Saver Credit Union Limited should put Ms A in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Refund all the PPI premiums to Ms A
Pay 8%simple interest on the premiums calculated from when each payment was 
made to the day when she gets the refund*
If Ms A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Plane Saver Credit Union 
Limited can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Plane Saver Credit Union Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Plane Saver Credit Union Limited must give Ms A a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Plane Saver Credit Union Limited 
should put things right as I have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman