DRN-4211510
The complaint
Mr D and Mr T complain Covea Insurance plc caused delays to progressing a storm damage 
claim against their Commercial Property Owners insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. 
Instead, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr T is the freeholder of the building, and Mr D is a leaseholder of a flat he rents to tenants. 
Mr D brought the complaint to our Service, so Ive referred to him within this decision for 
ease of reading.
In July 2021, torrential rain caused a flood inside Mr Ds basement flat, so he raised a claim. 
Covea accepted it, but Mr D says they caused significant delays, further damage, and 
communication was poor, amongst other things. He says the property was stripped back to 
brickwork and remained uninhabitable for many months despite being told this was a 
straightforward claim. And despite chasing for things to happen, nothing did. 
He says strip-out works caused two leaks, and delays caused a rodent infestation which he 
had to pay to resolve before the claim could progress. He says hes suffered financially due 
to Coveas delays  having to cover bills normally covered by tenants who had to move out, 
and he was unable to renew the mortgage. He complained to Covea around March 2022 
about the way matters were being handled. 
Covea says this was a large loss claim involving extensive damage. They say stripping and 
drying a property can take time  as it did here  and the further issues found meant the 
claim took longer to progress. They apologised for the communication but didnt agree they 
were responsible for causing the delays, more damage, or a rodent infestation. They didnt 
agree to cover Mr Ds additional costs and said the mortgage was due to be renewed only a 
few months after the claim-incident made the property uninhabitable. Mr D remained 
unhappy and asked our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator only considered Mr Ds complaint points Covea responded to in mid-2022 
regarding the claim delays. And said the other points Mr D wasnt happy with needed to be 
directed to Covea to respond to in the first instance. She didnt recommend this complaint be 
upheld as she wasnt persuaded Covea were responsible for the delays, further damage, or 
Mr Ds additional costs. Mr D asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the case was passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
Covea responded to in mid-2022 regarding the delays over this period. Here  Ive focused 
on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply 
reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
It's my opinion that this claim was rather complex in nature. It involved the requirement for 
Mr Ds property to be stripped back to brickwork, a period of drying (whereby further flooring 
needed to be stripped out to aid this), and reinstatement works. Its fair to say this process 
can take time  and will naturally cause a policyholder a level of inconvenience. And in this 
case, during the stripping and drying process, further issues were identified such as two 
leaks and a rodent infestation. This only caused further problems and delays. 
Before I address those further issues, its important I say I think Covea missed an 
opportunity early on in the claim to reasonably manage Mr Ds expectations over the level of 
damage, the works required, and the time it could take to resolve the claim. I say this 
because following the initial inspection, I think both the scope of works and the time to 
settlement were understated. For example, Mr D was told stripping and drying would take six 
to eight weeks  it took several months. And Mr D says he was told the claim was a 
straightforward one  which wasnt the case either. So, while I acknowledge here further 
issues were identified during the claim process  which delayed matters  I think Covea 
could have provided a better level of customer service by taking steps to manage Mr Ds 
expectations early on. Its my opinion based on the photos of damage, it was evident the 
claim wasnt a straightforward one, or likely to be resolved inside just a few months. 
Returning to the issues identified during the strip-out works. The first leak was said to have 
been found around October 2021, and the second in November 2021. This unfortunately 
halted the claim while repairs took place  at Mr Ds expense. Mr D says Coveas 
contractors caused these leaks because they were located where strip-out works had been 
completed. He also says a surveyor told him the leaks were almost certainly caused by 
contractors failing to take care. While Covea, however, say their contractors uncovered 
these issues, they didnt cause them, and theres no evidence to support they did. 
I understand why Mr D thinks Covea caused the leaks. But to give some balance to this 
dispute, I must also keep in mind he says the property was stripped back to brickwork and 
flooring. So, its plausible  in my view  to also conclude Coveas contractors uncovered 
these issues that were occurring prior to works starting while stripping the property back to 
brickwork. All things considered  Im not persuaded on balance theres strong supporting 
evidence currently available to demonstrate Coveas contractors caused these leaks. So, I 
cant hold Covea responsible for the delays caused while they required repairing, or for the 
costs Mr D incurred in doing so. 
A rodent infestation caused further claim delays because that needed to be resolved before 
contractors could go back to the property. Mr D says water and the temperature of the 
property while it was uninhabitable caused this. And Covea should reimburse the costs he 
incurred in resolving this problem. I dont think I could reasonably attribute a rodent 
infestation to the way Covea handled the claim. 
Im sorry to hear of the financial impact the claim had on Mr D. The policy covers loss of rent 
and the claim notes suggest this has been paid to Mr D beyond the complaint period Im 
considering. There were other costs Mr D incurred that tenants would have otherwise 
covered had the claim-incident not forced them to move out  such as council tax and utility 
bills. I cant see that the policy is intended to cover these costs under these circumstances, 
so I wont be requiring Covea to take any action in this respect. 
I also note Mr Ds mortgage was due for renewal around late-2021, but the lender decided 
not to lend against the property as it was uninhabitable. Its unfortunate the mortgage was 
due to renew a few months after the claim-incident caused extensive damage to the property. Its my opinion that the property was deemed uninhabitable as the result of the 
claim-incident and not due to Coveas handling of it. Therefore, I dont think requiring Covea 
to reimburse Mr Ds additional mortgage costs would reach a fair and reasonable outcome 
here. 
There was also a cost for garden maintenance Mr D says Covea should cover because it fell 
into a state of disrepair while the property was empty. Ive reviewed the invoice which 
suggests the works completed were general garden maintenance, and for the extraction and 
disposal of garden waste. I wouldnt expect any costs for general garden maintenance to be 
included as part of a claim, so I wont be requiring Covea to reimburse this cost to Mr D. 
To summarise, I dont find Covea were responsible for causing avoidable delays or further 
damage between July 2021 when the claim-incident occurred, to Coveas mid-2022 final 
response letter. Nor do I agree the policy covers Mr Ds additional costs towards what 
normally would have been covered by the tenant, or his mortgage costs. I do agree Covea 
ought to have handled matters better at times, and with a higher level of customer service. 
Particularly early on in the claim to manage Mr Ds expectations over the level of damage, 
works required, and the time it could take to resolve the claim. But this was a rather complex 
claim and issues were also found along the way which caused further, unforeseeable delays. 
And as set out above, Im not satisfied Covea should be held responsible for causing these. 
So, I wont be requiring Covea to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
This will not be the outcome Mr D and Mr T were hoping for, but it ends our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve this dispute between them and Covea. Mr D will 
need to raise any further concerns with Covea for them to review in the first instance.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman