DRN-3364279
The complaint
Mr B on behalf of Mrs B has complained about British Gas services Limited. He is unhappy 
with the way it deal with a service it carried out and that it wont meet the costs to replace 
Mrs Bs boiler.
What happened
Mrs B bought a boiler through British Gas in February 2011. She bought a Homecare policy 
and so arranged for her boiler to be serviced annually. This happened until May 2018. 
In May 2021 a British Gas engineer carried out a service to Mrs Bs boiler. Unfortunately the 
decision was made to switch off the boiler as it was dangerous and the engineer said he 
would need to order parts. But the replacement parts were not available and so British Gas 
said a replacement boiler would be required. 
British Gas said that as the boiler had been fitted over ten years ago it wouldnt cover the 
replacement of it under the Home care agreement. 
Mr B complained to British Gas on Mrs Bs behalf. He said it wasnt their fault that the boiler 
hadnt been serviced in 2019 and 2020, the latter being due to the Covid 19 pandemic. He 
was unhappy that there had been several appointments made and then cancelled following 
the engineers visit in May 2021. 
In June 2021 British Gas provided a refund of £65 for failing to complete scheduled works 
due to the Covid 19 pandemic. 
In August 2021 British Gas said its decision not to cover the replacement of Mrs Bs boiler 
was correct. It said it sent out reminders in 2019 saying the annual service for the boiler was 
due. As the boiler was outside of the timeframe set out under the Homecare policy when it 
was serviced and the fault was identified, British Gas said it had acted correctly. 
Since Mr B brought the complaint to this service, British Gas has offered £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the cancelled appointments and incorrect 
advice after the service took place in May 2021. 
Our Investigator thought British Gas had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Although there had been some restrictions due to the pandemic, the last service had taken 
place in May 2018 and restrictions came into effect in March 2020. British Gas provided 
copy reminder letters it had sent to Mrs B in 2019 and 2020.
Mr B didnt agree. He says they never received any letters reminding them of the service 
requirement in May 2019. He says there was a serious problem with the boiler and it seems 
to be their hard luck that it wasnt inspected in the previous two years when it was still under 
guarantee and they were paying for the policy. 
So as Mr B doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs Homecare policy says the following in relation to the crux of Mr Bs complaint:
Whats covered
All repairs to:
 a single natural gas or Liquid Petroleum Gas boiler or warm-air unit on your 
property, thats designed for home use and has a heat output capacity
of up to 70kW;
Then;
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
 its less than seven years old; or
 its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product; or
 it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your annual 
service within every period of agreement
Annual service
Well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter, text message or well call 
you to arrange your annual service. Well try to contact you up to three times. If we 
dont hear back from you after the third time or you are not at the property when our 
engineer visits, we wont try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual 
service. You can still contact us at any time to book it. Your annual service may be 
more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit
I appreciate that Mr B says no reminders were received from British Gas in 2019 or 2020. 
But Im satisfied from the copy letters provided that British Gas wrote to Mrs B to remind her 
that the annual service was due. 
Theres no evidence the issue was there under the last service in May 2018. And theres no 
way of knowing when the fault occurred before it was identified in May 2021. But I dont think 
this means British Gas should cover the replacement of the boiler. I dont think the pandemic 
prevented Mr B from having the boiler serviced when due in 2019. Restrictions meant British 
Gas service visits didnt take place during parts of 2020 and were limited to emergency 
home visits only. 
When the boiler was serviced in 2021 and the fault was identified, the boiler was over 10 
years old. So in line with the policy I dont think British Gas is responsible for replacing the 
boiler. 
I think British Gas provided some poor service in arranging and then cancelling 
appointments to repair Mrs Bs boiler  as the part needed wasnt ultimately available any 
more. For this British Gas has offered to pay compensation of £150 after it issued its final 
response to the complaint where it acknowledged its poor service. I think this is a reasonable sum to reflect the inconvenience caused. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But Im upholding it in part as I think 
British Gas should pay £150 compensation for some poor service. But I dont think it needs 
to cover the costs to replace the boiler. 
Mr B says the engineer who replaced the boiler told him the fault was caused by the way the 
original boiler was installed. Mr B will need to raise a new complaint with British Gas to give 
it the opportunity to investigate this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require British Gas Services Limited 
to pay Mrs B £150 compensation (if it hasnt already paid it) for the poor service it provided 
in arranging and cancelling appointments to repair Mrs Bs boiler.
British Gas Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr B on behalf of Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman