DRN-3328995
The complaint
Mr M complains that he has received misleading information from Scottish Widows Limited 
in relation to an annuity he purchased from them in 2020
]What happened
Scottish Widows contacted Mr M in relation to his pension in December 2019 providing 
some details on his options upon his retirement. Following a request for information from his 
financial adviser, Scottish Widows provided this information along with a retirement quotation 
on 16 January 2020 relating to an annuity.
Mr M purchased the annuity and a confirmation letter was provided by Scottish Widows on 
12 February 2020 with the first payment due on 1 March 2020.
On 17 February 2020, Mr Ms financial adviser contacted Scottish Widows by telephone in 
relation to the payments due under the annuity and to query whether the payments in the 
illustration were correct. Scottish Widows responded a few days later by email to advise that 
they aimed to have the annuity corrected before the first payment was due.
Upon receiving the first payment, Mr M says he noticed the amount was lower than he was 
expecting and he queried this with Scottish Widows. Mr M says Scottish Widows told him the 
error had been corrected, however upon noticing that subsequent payments were also at the 
same amount, Mr M raised a complaint with Scottish Widows directly in writing on 5 October 
2020.
In response to the complaint, Scottish Widows sent a final response letter to Mr M on 10 
December 2020 in which they said they agreed with parts of the complaint and paid Mr M 
£120 to acknowledge a failure to provide an acceptable level of customer service. Scottish 
Widows explained that the income received by Mr M was lower because the annuity was set 
up with a Widows 50% Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
Mr M says he was not made aware at any point that a spouses benefit was part of the 
annuity and that, had he known this was the case, he would not have taken this option as he 
wished to maximise his own income. He also says he would have looked at alternative 
products and is now tied in to paying for something for which he will receive no benefit since 
he is not married.
Our investigators view was that:
Scottish Widows have demonstrated that the annuity purchased with them needed to 
have a spouses pension included as part of the plans owned by Mr M
Mr M would have been required to transfer to another provider if he wished to purchase 
an annuity without a spouses pension
The information on the annuity quotation was an accurate reflection of the situation 
regarding the annual income and the payments to be made to a spouse as required by 
the legislation
The retirement quotation was not misleading although it was unclear
Mr M might have been expected to query contradictory information in the documents he 
received but that there is no evidence of this
Scottish Widows have provided evidence that they sent a letter to Mr M which explained 
the payment that he would receive and the amount payable to his spouse on his death
Mr M or his adviser must have received the annuity confirmation letter
The annuity confirmation letter makes it clear that a spouses pension is payable under 
the terms of the annuity and therefore Mr M or his adviser must have been aware of this
There is no indication from Mr M that he wished to cancel the annuity within the 30-day 
cancellation period following the annuity confirmation
There is no evidence that Mr Ms financial adviser was told during the telephone call on 
17 February 2020 that there wouldnt be a spouses pension included in the annuity
Scottish Widows did provide confusing information to Mr M in their quotation of 16 
January 2020 and have provided compensation to Mr M for this however this error alone 
is not sufficient to say Mr M was misled about the terms of his annuity
The quotation letter dated 16 January 2020 did contain contradictory information but not 
incorrect information
Scottish Widows are not responsible for the assumptions made by their customers and 
should not be required to do anything further
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view given by our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I have carefully considered what Mr M has said and have looked at the correspondence as 
well as Mr Ms advisers response to the investigators view. I appreciate that Mr M had 
expected to be made aware of the fact that the annuity he was seeking to purchase included 
a spouses benefit. He has said that, had he known this, he would have not taken this option 
or would have looked at alternative products. Mr Ms adviser has said that this quotation 
does not thoroughly highlight the fact that Mr M was required to take a spouses pension. He 
has also said that Mr M cant understand why the higher figure of £4,819.94 (which was 
without a spouses pension) was included as an estimated annual income if this was never 
an option for Mr M.
Having looked at the annuity confirmation letter dated 16 January 2020, I do agree that the 
information contained within it could have been clearer. There is reference to a legal 
requirement for a Guaranteed Minimum Pension to include provision for a spouse but also to 
a quotation for an annuity of £4,819.94 p.a. which was without a spouses pension. 
My view however is that enough information was provided to Mr M or his adviser in addition 
to this letter such that Mr M might reasonably be expected to question the inclusion of the 
spouses benefit in the annuity he was purchasing. This includes the annuity confirmation 
letter dated 12 February 2020. I note also that there is an email sent to Mr Ms financial 
adviser by Scottish Widows which Scottish Widows say was issued on 15 January 2020 
which includes specific reference to the inclusion of a spouses benefit. I have not seen 
anything to indicate that this question was ever raised.I note that Mr Ms financial adviser says that Mr M never saw the letter dated 12 February 
2020 nor the email from 15 January 2020. This is something that cannot be confirmed but I 
have to take the view that, since Scottish Widows have provided evidence of the letter being 
sent that it is likely that it was received. In addition to this, I note that Mr Ms adviser 
contacted Scottish Widows on 17 February 2020 to query the amounts being paid. 
Considering that the first payment under the annuity was not due until 1 March 2020, I feel 
that the only reason to query the amounts would be if some correspondence was received 
which referred to this.
Had Mr M, or his adviser, raised an issue with Scottish Widows specifically in relation to the 
existence of the spouses benefit before 17 March 2020, he would have been able to cancel 
the annuity in line with the 30-day cancellation right set out in the terms and conditions for 
the annuity. From what I can see, Mr M and his adviser have raised queries with Scottish 
Widows but only in relation to the amount to be paid and not in relation to the spouses 
benefit prior to the complaint made to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr Ms adviser has said that, following the call with Scottish Widows on 17 February 2020, 
he understood that the amount of £4,819.94 would be the figure used for the monthly 
payments. Unfortunately, a recording of this call is not available and I cannot therefore take 
a view on what was discussed or if any misleading information was provided. Emails sent to 
Mr Ms adviser in both January and February 2020 make reference to the payments to be 
received as well as to the payments to be made in relation to the spouses benefit and I 
consider this sufficient for Mr Ms adviser to have been made aware of the payments to be 
expected.
Scottish Widows have paid Mr M compensation to acknowledge the fact that the annuity 
quotation letter of 16 January 2020 was unclear and they have shown that they later sent 
correspondence to Mr M which makes reference to the payments Mr M would receive and 
the amount to be paid as part of the spouses benefit. In consideration of this, I think it is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances not to ask Scottish Widows to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Rana Chatterjee
Ombudsman