DRN-3043324
The complaint
Mr F, acting on behalf of his business B, complains that Tide Platform Ltd didnt disclose 
the terms of the credit line it provided.
What happened
Mr F applied for a credit line on behalf of his business. In April 2020 he received an email 
from Tide Platform confirming that a credit line had been activated and that he could 
withdraw up to £20,000 at a monthly interest rate of 0.84%. The email said there was a £100 
subscription fee.
Mr F says that a month later Tide Platform took two payments from his account: one for over 
£1,600 the other for £100. He wasnt expecting these amounts to be taken and contacted 
Tide Platform. He says it took time to get an explanation and he was told on 22 June the 
credit line was for six months. Mr F says he hadnt been told this when he took out the credit 
line. He feels his business has been taken advantage of due to the pressures at the time for 
business trying to source finance in the pandemic.
Tide Platform says that all the information Mr F required, including the credit limit, repayment 
period, interest rate and subscription fee was displayed in the activation window. It says this 
information along with the repayment amount based on the withdrawal was then displayed in 
the withdrawal window and a repayment schedule was provided.
Our investigator issued a view saying on balance he didnt think Tide Platform had done 
anything wrong. However, at that time certain evidence hadnt been provided and Mr F 
requested his case be passed to an ombudsman due to the lack of information provided by 
Tide Platform. Our investigator then received the requested information from Tide Platform 
and issued a second view. Again, he didnt uphold this complaint and said that the evidence 
from Tide Platform showed the information Mr F would have received before activation and 
this included the amount, repayment term and interest rate. He said a further screenshot 
showed Mr F would have been told about the subscription fee and that when a withdrawal 
was made information about this, the repayments, and interest charge was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr F is upset as he wasnt expecting the repayments that were taken 
in May 2020. I note his comments about feeling his business was taken advantage of and I 
understand that the financial environment at the time was especially difficult due to the 
pandemic. However, for me to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Tide 
Platform had done something wrong.
Mr F provided a copy of the email he received confirming the credit line had been activated. 
This stated the amount available, monthly interest rate and the £100 subscription fee. 
Therefore, Mr F was aware of these terms at that time. However, he says the repayment 
term wasnt explained before activation.
Tide Platform has provided screenshots to show the information that is provided through the 
credit line process. This shows that at the point of activation, information is provided about 
the repayment period along with the other information regarding the credit limit, interest rate 
and subscription fee. Therefore, I think that Mr F was made aware of the term of the credit 
line and think he was provided with the information he needed to decide whether to make 
use of the credit line. 
Tide Platform has provided further example screenshots which show the information that 
would be available at different points. This shows that when a withdrawal is made the 
repayment amounts are shown along with the interest charge. Therefore, I think that Mr F 
should have been aware of how much he would need to repay when he made the 
withdrawal. Tide Platform has also provided a copy of the repayment schedule for Mr Fs 
business and the repayment amounts correspond to the amounts Mr F complained about 
being taken in May 2020. 
Based on the above, I think Mr F was provided with enough information to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to drawdown funds from the credit line for his business. Based 
on this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Tide Platform Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman