DRN-3071305
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (trading as Positive 
Solutions), wrongly advised him to transfer the benefits from his occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He considers he has lost out financially as a result. 
What happened
Mr M was advised to transfer his defined benefits occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a 
personal pension arrangement in May 2011. 
A fact-find had been completed which recorded that Mr M was in his late 40s, was divorced, 
and his intended retirement age was 65. Mr Ms salary was £20,000. He had overtime 
earnings of £6,000, and another income of £5,000 from irregular work. His net monthly 
income was recorded as £2,000, and his outgoings £400. He had no liabilities, and £7,200 in 
savings.
A pension transfer analysis said that the projected pension payable from the OPS at age 65 
was £20,451. It said the cash equivalent transfer value offered by the OPS was £206,338. 
The analysis said the investment return required on the transfer value to match the benefits 
that would otherwise have been provided by the OPS at age 65 was 6.24%.
The transfer value of just over £206,000 was transferred to the personal pension provider in 
May 2011. Mr M was advised to invest 55% of the transfer value in medium risk investments, 
and 45% in high risk.
Around six months later another advisory firm, not part of Quilter, advised Mr M to switch
to a SIPP (self-invested personal pension). Approximately £181,000 was transferred to the 
SIPP provider in January 2012.
About two years later Mr M transferred his pension again, to what has subsequently been 
purported to be a pension liberation scheme. Mr M incurred substantial financial losses. 
Again, Quilter werent involved in that transaction.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He thought the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, he said that at that time the advice was given to Mr M the regulators 
guidance on pension transfers said:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming
that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
optout to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
The investigator said that the OPS would have provided a low-risk index linked pension 
payable at Mr Ms planned retirement date. So there would need to be a reason to give up 
these benefits and take greater risks. The investigator said the advice report hadnt given 
any specific reason for Mr M to transfer. He said the report inferred that it might be possible 
for Mr M to get better returns and maybe higher annuity rates. But there was nothing 
individual to Mr Ms needs.
The investigator said the OPS benefits made up the vast majority of Mr Ms assets and were 
important to his long-term finances. He said the advice was given during the period when the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. He said 
whilst firms weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. The investigator said the relevant discount rate 
here was 6.4%. He also noted the regulators projection rates at the time were 5, 7 and 9%.
The investment return required on the transfer value to match the OPS benefits at age 65 
was 6.24%. The investigator thought that, taking all this into account, it would have appeared 
likely the personal pension would have provided a broadly similar level of benefits as the 
OPS at retirement date. So he said there would have been little point in Mr M giving up the 
guaranteed benefits in the OPS to obtain the same level of benefits in a personal pension.
The investigator said that Mr M hadnt got the capacity to absorb the potential losses from 
the transfer. He had no other significant assets or other anticipated sources of income in 
retirement (other than his State pension). 
The investigator said that he didnt think the transfer was worth the risks. He said the adviser 
should have explained to Mr M that his existing OPS benefits were most likely to achieve his 
retirement goals, and there was little benefit in transferring compared to the risks that he 
couldnt afford to take.
The investigator considered that the complaint should be upheld. He set out how he thought 
Quilter should calculate and, if redress was due, pay compensation to Mr M.
Quilter didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary, that it didnt agree 
the best outcome that Mr M could have hoped for at the time was only to match the OPS 
benefits. It thought that given he had a high attitude to risk, and the regulators middle 
projection rate was 7%, there was a realistic prospect that he could significantly improve on 
the OPS benefits. 
It also said that although there was no evidence that Mr M had other significant assets or 
pension provision, Mr M was willing to accept a high level of risk in exchange for the 
opportunity to improve on the OPS benefits. It thought Mr M would have understood what 
this meant in terms of there being a possibility that he could end up worse off. It said Mr Ms 
outgoings were low, and it would have been reasonable to expect that, despite any losses 
suffered following a transfer, he would still be left with sufficient benefits and so he had the 
capacity to absorb losses if they occurred. 
Quilter said Mr Ms appetite for risk was illustrated by his subsequent transfers. And that 
Quilter would have had no reason to suspect that Mr M would radically change his 
investment strategy, invest at a significantly higher risk, and incur the extent of the losses 
that were suffered. It said it thought it was being penalised for these subsequent investment 
decisions, and not the advice it had provided itself about the original transfer.
The investigator responded to say that he had taken into account the later transactions when 
recommending how Quilter should calculate compensation. He hadnt asked Quilter to cover 
the further detriment caused by the subsequent switch and transfer. The investigator said even if Mr M had a high attitude to risk, this wasnt demonstrated by his 
prior investment experience or knowledge. He didnt think he had the capacity to accept the 
potential losses following a transfer. He had nothing else to fall back on. 
The investigator said there didnt appear to be a good reason to give up the low risk benefits 
offered by the OPS. He said Mr M had a tendency to accept the advice he was given. Hed 
firstly transferred his OPS benefits, and then followed later advice from other parties to 
switch and transfer his pension. He said Mr Ms pension was almost his entire personal 
wealth, and he didnt have any history of investments or particular knowledge or experience 
of them. The investigator thought Mr M had accepted and acted on the advisers 
recommendation to transfer.
Quilter responded to acknowledge the investigators view on compensation. However it said 
it didnt think it would have been considered likely that Mr M would lose his pension as a 
result of the transfer advice. It said the major losses appeared to have been a result of the 
subsequent transactions which it wasnt involved with.
Quilter said it didnt think the issue was whether Mr M could afford to lose his pension, but 
rather whether he was in a position to accept the risk that his pension benefits could be 
lower as a result of the transfer. It said Mr M was in a position to accept the risk the personal 
pension could be lower than retaining the OPS benefits. It said Mr M had low outgoings, 
which suggested he did have capacity to accept the risks. And Mr M had confirmed that he 
was willing to take a high level of risk  as evidenced by his subsequent actions.
It said the investigators comments that the probability of being substantially better off 
wasnt likely was easy to determine with the benefit of hindsight. But at the time of advice 
the required investment return would have been considered achievable  particularly as     
Mr M was prepared to take a high level of risk. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When providing regulated financial advice Quilter was obliged to meet the requirements set 
out in the regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
As the investigator said, the advisers role was to provide suitable advice. This was reflected 
in the COBS rules at the time. In summary, COBS 9.2.1 required Quilter to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its personal recommendation was suitable for Mr M. And COBS 9.2.2 
required it to have a reasonable basis for believing that the transfer met Mr Ms objectives. 
This included that Mr M was able to bear the related investment risks consistent with those 
objectives. And that he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the 
risks involved in the transaction.
As noted by the investigator, COBS 19.1.6 stated that when advising a retail client who is a 
member of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, the firm 
should start by assuming that a transfer would not be suitable. A firm should only then 
consider a transfer to be suitable if it could clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer was in the client's best interests.
At the time that the advice to transfer was given the OPS was projected to provide a pension 
of just over £20,000 to Mr M at age 65.  This was Mr Ms intended retirement age, and it was 
a very healthy pension. It would have provided largely guaranteed and increasing benefits 
that Mr M could have relied on to maintain his standard of living throughout his retirement. So like the investigator, I think there would have needed to be a good reason to give up 
those benefits.
It appears that the reason that the transfer was recommended was to try and improve on the 
benefits that would otherwise have been provided by the OPS. 
On the one hand, I agree with Quilter that given the critical yield of 6.4%, and given 
reasonable expectations of investment returns at the time, there was a realistic possibility 
that Mr M might improve on his OPS benefits by transferring. Something in excess of the 
6.4% would have been required to materially improve on the OPS benefits. However given 
Mr M had indicated that he was prepared to accept a high level of risk, I dont think it was out 
of line with the risk Mr M had indicated he was willing to accept. Quilter recommended that 
Mr M invest 55% of the transfer value in medium risk assets and 45% high. So I think if the 
risks had paid off, Mr M could have improved on the OPS benefits.
However on the other, for the reasons explained by the investigator, I dont think Mr M had 
the capacity to accept the potential losses associated with that level of risk; I dont think he 
was able to bear the risks related to the transaction.
Quilter has said although there was no evidence that Mr M had other significant assets or 
pension provision he was willing to accept a high degree of risk. And whats key isnt  
whether Mr M was able to afford to lose his pension, but rather whether he was in a position 
to accept the risk that his pension benefits could be lower than the OPS as a result of the 
transfer.  It said Mr M had low outgoings, which suggested he did have capacity to accept 
the risks.
Whilst I accept that Quilter wouldnt have foreseen the extent of the losses caused by the 
subsequent transfer, it was aware that Mr M was taking a higher degree of risk overall, or in 
terms of the mix of investments it recommended, a medium/high risk. Mr M was exposed to 
significant risks. It was foreseeable that the transfer value could reduce materially when 
exposed to those investment risks. So I dont think the risks were limited to the extent that 
there was a possibility that the benefits from the personal pension might be a bit lower than 
those that would otherwise have been provided by the OPS. There was a real possibility that 
the fund value could fall significantly as implied by the medium/higher degree of risk taken, 
and so the personal pension provide significantly lower benefits than the OPS. That is the 
nature of taking a high or medium/high risk. 
Mr M had approximately £7,200 in savings. But he had no other material pension, savings or 
investments that he could fall back on in the event that the personal pensions value fell 
significantly. He may have only had modest outgoings compared to his income at the time of 
the transfer. But that wouldnt necessarily be the case when he wanted to retire a number of 
years later, where his circumstances may have changed. Given his financial position, I think 
it was likely the pension Mr M had built up in the OPS would have provided the majority of 
his income when Mr M reached retirement age.
If Mr M had stayed in the OPS it would have provided a largely guaranteed income starting 
at just over £20,000 per year at age 65  his target retirement age. As Ive said, I dont think 
that return was unreasonable for a higher risk investor. But by giving up the £20,000 per 
year and transferring out of the OPS, Mr M was exposed to a significant risk that his pension 
would not only fall slightly short of what the OPS could have provided, but that it could be 
significantly less, and have a material impact on his standard of living in retirement. In my 
view Mr M wasnt in a position to bear that risk. He had a modest amount of savings, but no 
other provision that he could rely on to fill any significant gap if there was a material fall in 
the value of his personal pension.Mr M may have indicated that he was a high-risk investor. And I accept that he wrote a letter 
to the adviser dated 27 April 2011 where he said he was aware he was giving up guaranteed 
benefits, and the benefits from the personal pension would depend on investment 
performance. However, the evidence doesnt suggest that Mr M was a particularly 
knowledgeable investor or had experience of this type of high-risk transaction; particularly in 
terms of assessing his position in the event the risks went against him and the impact of a 
significant fall in the value of his personal pension when he got to retirement. In my view Mr 
M would have relied on the adviser to assess all the interrelated factors involved with the 
transfer and provide advice that was suitable to his circumstances.
Taking all the above into account, I dont think Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
met its obligations under COBS to provide advice that was suitable for Mr M. Although I 
accept he may have said he was willing to accept a higher degree of risk, I dont think his 
financial position was such that he was able to bear the significant risks that the transfer 
presented. Accordingly, I dont think the advice to transfer was suitable 
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M, as far as its possible, into the 
position that he would likely have been in if but for the unsuitable advice. I think Mr M would 
have remained in his OPS if suitable advice had been given. I therefore order Quilter 
Financial Planning Solutions Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr M on the 
following basis. 
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers. 
Like the investigator, I dont think Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited is responsible 
for the losses that arose from Mr Ms subsequent decisions about his pension - he 
transferred to a purported pension liberation scheme.
Therefore, Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited can calculate the position using a 
notional value (for the personal pension) based on the assumption that Mr M had remained 
invested in the personal pension that Quilter had recommended (i.e. he had remained in the 
same funds he was in when he switched out of that scheme a few months later). This would 
be compared to the value of OPS benefits as calculated in accordance with the above 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work 
and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited receiving notification of Mr Ms acceptance of 
my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, 
in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited should also pay Mr M £200 for the distress 
caused to him by having a materially lower income in retirement  to the extent caused 
by Quilter.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I dont know the amount of compensation payable through the calculation as described
above. However, if the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited pays Mr M the 
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I order Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr 
M as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman