DRN-3364744
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) failed to safeguard him from a 
gambling addiction after it lifted the restrictions from his ISA account.
What happened
Mr H had a share dealing ISA with HSDL. He contacted HSDL in June 2020 and told it he 
had been using the account to enable his gambling addiction. He asked HSDL to seal the 
account up so [he] cant deal online. HSDL reminded Mr H about shares he had sold that 
hadnt settled, and asked him if he wanted the account blocked from any further 
transactions? 
Mr H told HSDL he needed to withdraw that cash as soon as it cleared and that he also 
held stock in a company that was suspended from trading, that he was unable to do anything 
with. HSDL said it couldnt close the account while the suspended stock was still there. It 
suggested it could start with a block on the account, allowing Mr H to lift the restriction if he 
provided a password. It said Mr H should call back to close the account after the funds from 
the sale of his shares had cleared.
Mr H contacted HSDL two days later providing the password and instructing it to remove the 
restriction  and a week after, he began trading again.
In July 2020 Mr H raised a complaint. He told HSDL hed raised his gambling addiction with 
several of its staff, but it hadnt done enough to protect him. He also mentioned the lifting of 
the restrictions had caused him to make financial losses. HSDL didnt agree. It explained the 
service it offered was execution only  it wasnt required to assess the suitability or 
appropriateness of the service for Mr H. It had explained there were risks associated with 
using the service and applying restrictions was the extent of the options it had available. It 
arranged to close the account and waived the £12.50 ISA administration fee as a good will 
gesture.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2022. I said: 
Mr H tells us he made HSDL aware of his vulnerability. He says Halifax for reasons 
of their own choosing let me continue despite knowing my circumstances. At the time 
of the complaint I had come out of bankruptcy, but I was taking out payday loans to 
fuel the addiction. This as well as my wages went to Halifax.
But HSDL says its done nothing wrong. It says it was unable to act beyond 
temporarily restricting Mr Hs account. And because the service it was offering was 
execution only and it had provided risk warnings to Mr H, it hadnt acted in error. 
From what Mr H has told us, Im satisfied he had an addiction and was trying to 
manage it. Hed reached agreements with bookmakers as well as a number of share 
dealing platforms to prevent him from trading or betting. So, I have to consider what 
action HSDL took when it received Mr Hs message and whether that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive borne in mind the guidance from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 2019 
consultation paper:
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/guidance-consultation/gc19-03.pdf
and the most recent guidance from its 2021 consultation paper:
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg21-1.pdf
Both sets of guidance define a vulnerable consumer as someone who, due to their 
personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to detriment, particularly when a 
firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care.
The guidance sets out why firms need to act differently to avoid harm to these 
consumers. Especially where it concerns consumers who cant make decisions in 
their own interests. Specifically that:
Characteristics of vulnerability may result in consumers having additional or different 
needs and may limit their ability or willingness to make decisions and choices or to 
represent their own interests. These consumers may be at greater risk of harm, 
particularly if things go wrong.
In particular, the most recent guidance further explains why Mr Hs vulnerability puts 
him at risk of harm. It says, Failure to recognise when consumers are struggling to 
make decisions or act in their own interests and provide the right support, can result 
in harm. For example, cognitive disabilities, mental health conditions or addiction can 
lead to harmful financial decisions, vulnerability to scams and buying unsuitable 
products.
And
Fluctuating mental health conditions or addictions can lead to harmful or reckless 
financial behaviour. These consumers can be more at risk from buying inappropriate 
products, fraud or financial abuse.
I can see Mr H flagged his addiction to HSDL. He says this was done on a number of 
occasions, but HSDL disagrees. Its shared a copy of a webchat conversation, which 
it says was the only time Mr H raised his addiction. 
At the start of this particular exchange, Mr H says that hed raised this several times 
with colleagues and you are the [first] to take it seriously. Had others acted then I 
may not be in this position. However, considering all of the communication between 
Mr H and HSDL, I cant see that he had mentioned his addiction before. Because of 
this, Im not persuaded HSDL were aware of Mr Hs issues before June 2020 and so, 
I dont think it could have been expected to have taken any action earlier than this 
date.
But HSDL was aware Mr H was using the platform to gamble following the webchat. 
And its clear, it shared some concern about his revelation - HSDL discussed the idea 
of applying a temporary restriction that could be removed by password, and then 
closing the account after the sale of his shares completed. The problem I find is that 
despite the knowledge HSDL had that Mr Hs vulnerability meant he could struggle to act in his own interest, it gave him the ability to remove the restrictions on the 
account without any input from HSDL. In effect, although Mr H specifically asked 
HSDL to stop him trading, even when he wanted to, the steps HSDL took didnt allow 
him to achieve that.
HSDL has countered that its execution only status limits its actions to what 
consumers tell it to do, but I dont think thats enough to justify their actions here. Mr 
H made a clear plea for HSDL to stop him from trading. Unfortunately, HSDL didnt 
take that on board. So, I find HSDLs actions fell outside the appropriate level of care 
it was required to provide.
I note that the events complained of took place prior to the FCAs finalised guidance. 
And that this is in any event guidance, not a set of rules. But HSDL always had an 
obligation to act in line with the existing principles. As was specifically noted in the 
2021 guidance: which say:
Our guidance makes clear what the standards set by our Principles mean for firms, 
so that firms understand what we expect of them. It sets out what firms should do to 
meet those standards. While firms are not bound to adopt or follow any of the specific 
actions described in this Guidance, they must meet the standards set by our 
Principles and treat customers fairly.
Ive also taken into account the obligation on HSDL set by the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) which all authorised firms are required to comply with. COBS 
2.1.1R says A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client... 
Bearing in mind the high-level principles, the information HSDL already had should 
have prompted it to think about the impact any further gambling could have on Mr Hs 
financial situation, so, I feel HSDL didnt act in accordance with Mr Hs best interests. 
I also dont think HSDL has dealt with Mr H fairly or appropriately since being told of 
his gambling addiction - it has stuck rigidly to what it thinks it can do despite being 
aware of the serious nature of Mr Hs vulnerability. Ultimately, he explained he 
wouldnt always have rational view on that but relied on HSDL to help protect him.
In this particular case, there were many different options open to HSDL. But 
ultimately it ought to have been really satisfied it was in Mr Hs interests to unblock 
the account before doing so. Instead, it only asked for a password and then granted 
him access to the account. Its worth adding that to begin with HSDL were going to 
close Mr Hs account, which would have meant he wouldve been unable to trade. 
But its only because of the unsettled shares that this didnt happen. HSDL should 
really have treated the account as closed in all but name, for example, by setting a 
marker to say it wouldnt accept new opening trades. 
Even if HSDL had to leave the account open, Mr H had specifically asked them to 
seal the account up so I cant trade online. I think giving a confessed gambling 
addict a password he could just provide to trade again doesnt fulfil this request or 
take full account of his interests. 
Here, those interests were putting barriers in place to prevent him harming himself by 
gambling further. So, Im not persuaded that HSDLs response was reasonable or 
that it protected Mr H  a vulnerable consumer  from harm. 
I then set how what I thought HSDL needed to do to put things right. In summary, I said:I was satisfied HSDL should have taken further steps before allowing Mr H to 
continue to trade and thought it was likely those steps could have established that he 
was at risk of financial harm. So, I said HSDLs failure to act had an impact on Mr H, 
not least because he has been facing the very real possibility that his addiction could 
have serious consequences.
I thought HSDL could and should have done more to support Mr H and so an award 
for the distress and inconvenience suffered was appropriate. I said it was clear Mr H 
was struggling to act in his own interest and tried to reach out to HSDL for support 
but the steps HSDL took allowed him to continue trading even when he didnt want 
to. This lack of support despite being aware of Mr Hs addiction undoubtedly had a 
big impact on his mental health and wellbeing. 
Considering HSDLs part in what Mr H had been through, I thought it would be fair for 
them to pay him £500. But at the time I thought hed made a profit from trading after 
the suspension had been lifted, and it seemed the profit was for around £500 too. So 
I didnt think HSDL needed to make the £500 payment. Lastly I asked HSDL to 
refund any fees or commission it generated from Mr Hs account on trades placed 
from 24 June 2020 onwards as I didnt think it was fair for it to profit from its error of 
allowing Mr H to continue to trade.
But following further review of the case once Mr H and HSDL had responded to my 
provisional findings I checked the trade data and instead found Mr H had made a loss, not a 
profit, during the period where he ought not have been able to continue trading. That loss 
was around £850 plus fees, so our service wrote to HSDL to clarify that while the rational 
within my provisional decision was not changed, how it ought to put things right had changed 
given I needed to put Mr H back in the position he would have been in had HSDL prevented 
him from trading from 24 June 2020 onwards. The proposed redress change included 
refunding Mr H the £850 he lost, refunding the fees and commission associated with trading 
after 24 June 2020 (c£290) and paying him the £500 for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. HSDL said, in summary:
Overall, it strongly disagreed with the reasoning and approach in my provisional 
decision. It thought I had fundamentally veered away from the regulatory guidance in 
place for this type of circumstance.
It emphasised that the measures Id suggested it take didnt form part of any 
available guidance.
It said it had sought and acted on the guidance it received from the regulator, so it said I had 
misdirected myself and had reached an erroneous conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, HSDL says the measures I have suggested do not 
form part of any available guidance. Its stressed the impact this decision could have on the 
industry, so its asked that I set out what our service expects firms to do when its customers 
disclose gambling addictions. 
I acknowledge the comments made by HSDL. But I emphasise that my conclusions here are 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint. For clarity, I am making no findings on what HSDL ought to do in general when a 
customer discloses a gambling addiction. My decision is based on the specific interaction 
HSDL had with Mr H.
As explained in my provisional decision, Ive taken into guidance from the regulator  
specifically the FCAs consultation papers. These outline guidance for firms to follow to 
prevent customers with vulnerabilities from risk of harm. Whilst the latter paper came into 
existence after Mr H notified HSDL, the principles are the same and apply here. Ive also 
taken account of the regulators principles, as set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant 
principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive thought about HSDL having regard for Mr Hs interests. I think the rules and guidance 
underpin that firms are to consider a customers individual circumstance and tailor its 
approach accordingly so, that any action it does take is practical and fair treatment of 
customers in vulnerable circumstances.
HSDL has said there were limits to what it could do. It submits it took guidance from the 
regulator and that it was advised that firms should take reasonable steps to establish 
conditions in which consumers could make good choices and that the use of friction, 
prompts or nudges to encourage consumers to think carefully and consider risks would be 
useful. It said it wasnt given specific guidance with what to do in execution-only situations, 
but that encouragement could be given to clients to consider seeking advice where 
appropriate, or support where appropriate. 
Ive thought about the guidance HSDL says it received, however, I dont find the broad steps 
or extent to which HSDL applied friction was sufficient here. I also dont find that its actions 
paid due regard to PRIN 2.1.1 R (6). Mr H had been candid about his condition, and that he 
was reliant on the relationship with HSDL to feed his gambling addiction. Hed given HSDL 
clear instructions to seal the account up so [he] cant deal online. Despite his request and 
HSDLs own suggestion to close it after the sale of his shares had completed, it allowed 
Mr H to have control over the account with the limited and, in the context fairly flimsy 
restriction of having to give a password.
HSDL didnt refer back to his disclosure, ask if he was sure he wanted to trade in light of 
what hed said, or ask if hed consulted a family member when he rang back in. To be clear 
Im not saying these are the specific steps it ought to have taken. But they are examples of 
frictions that, in light of the particular disclosure and particular request Mr H made of HSDL, 
would, in my view, have more likely resulted in him fairly and reasonably being restricted 
from accessing his trading account in the way hed asked HSDL to do. Simply giving him a 
password, he could enter or read back when calling in didnt in my view fairly take account of 
Mr Hs particular circumstances or interests and treat him fairly. So, it strikes me as 
concerning that in spite of HSDLs initial recognition that it ought to close the account in all 
but name, it didnt. Given the facts of this particular case, Im not satisfied HSDL acted fairly 
and reasonably in the way it responded to Mr H and his request. 
When Mr H first spoke to HSDL the starting position was to close his account. I dont agree 
Mr H turned this offer down or failed to follow up on it. He clearly expressed a desire for 
HSDL to stop him being able to trade. The account only wasnt closed because of 
suspended stock. But the course of action HSDL chose meant that nothing had changed in 
terms of Mr Hs ability to trade other than the requirement to give a password before doing 
so.Ive thought carefully about this in light of the guidance that HSDL should have been thinking 
about the fact Mr Hs addiction could mean it may limit their ability or willingness to make 
decisions and choices or to represent their own interests.
And that Failure to recognise when consumers are struggling to make decisions or act in 
their own interests and provide the right support, can result in harm. For example, cognitive 
disabilities, mental health conditions or addiction can lead to harmful financial decisions.
Here, Mr H said he had an addiction and that he used this account to further it, to his 
detriment. Bearing in mind the above and HSDLs obligation to have regard for Mr Hs 
interests (crucially, at times when he may be unable to act in his own interests) I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for HSDL to simply give Mr H a password.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I think had HSDL acted fairly and reasonably 
Mr H wouldnt have been able to trade further and therefore it would be fair for it to pay him 
for any financial losses he suffered as a result.
In addition, I am in no doubt that HSDL contributed to Mr Hs overall financial distress. I think 
its clear from the communication that HSDL did not treat Mr H fairly when he asked for help 
and that its actions put him in a detrimental position. By not tailoring its approach or 
engaging with his efforts, HSDL contributed to the stresses Mr H said he was under at the 
time. In light of this, I think a payment of £500 is fair compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Halifax Share Dealing Limited to:
 Pay Mr H any losses he incurred from 24 June 2020, when it ought to have 
prevented him from trading further
  Pay him £500 compensation
  Refund any fees or commission it charged Mr H from all trades from 24 June 2020 
until the account was closed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman