DRN-4003135
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Unum Ltd (Unum) has declined her income protection claim.
A previous complaint was looked at by this service based on a claim made by Mrs R up to 
September 2019. This complaint relates to a claim made by Mrs R from September 2020.
What happened
Mrs R had a group income protection policy through her employer. Unum is the underwriter 
on the policy. There is a 52-week deferred period on the policy and, for the benefit to be 
payable, the medical evidence would need to show that the policy definition of incapacity 
had been met from then and throughout the entire 52 weeks of the deferred period and 
ongoing.
Mrs R has been absent from work on the grounds of ill health since December 2019. The 
diagnosis at the time was stress related to work. This diagnosis was maintained for a 
significant period until replaced by a diagnosis of anxiety and depression in late September 
2020. This was because, in September 2020, Mrs Rs husband sadly passed away 
suddenly, and her symptoms deteriorated. She was being supported by her sons and 
friends.
Mrs R has been on long term anti-depressant medication but there was no further active 
treatment for her work-related stress in September 2020. She had been in regular contact 
with her GP and tried Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) with varying degrees of success 
and, until November 2020, had not had any other therapy or intervention.
She had an occupational health report in November 2020 carried out by a medical doctor. 
His summary was that Mrs R was not fit to work at the time due to anxiety/depression. He 
said Mrs R had a history of stress and depression exacerbated by occupational and 
domestic factors and recently due to bereavement. A psychiatrist assessment recommended 
that a review take place in two months time to assess her health and fitness to return to 
work. 
In December 2020, Mrs R had an initial assessment from a mental health team. She was 
placed on a waiting list for CBT.
Mrs R started CBT sessions with the NHS but also was receiving Eye Movement 
Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) therapy (a mental health treatment technique
 
through a charity.
Due to her resistant depression and lack of improvement, Mrs R was referred by her GP to a 
psychiatrist as an outpatient. Her medication was being reduced with a view to trying an 
alternative medication as a trial. Mrs R also attended a bereavement group session for six 
weeks.
Mrs Rs absence was extended by her GP due to depression and for an ongoing basis. 
In April 2021, Mrs Rs GP records show she had completed CBT and been referred for 
Interpersonal Therapy (IPT). She had received several job offers but wasnt fit to return to 
work. She discussed her alcohol intake regularly with her GP and also discussed referral to 
help with reducing the intake but declined.
In May 2021, Mrs R was assessed by the GP aligned mental health team. Mrs R was 
reported to have presented herself as well-kempt with no hygiene issues, her contact was 
appropriate and there was no evidence of distractibility. Her tone and volume were 
appropriate, and rapport was easily established, and she was able to concentrate throughout 
the assessment.
In June 2021, she had a telephone review with the GP aligned mental health team. She 
reported she was out in the car; she had started golf and attended a bereavement group. 
Her medication dose was reduced, and she said shed reduced her alcohol intake. Later on 
in June 2021, her GP records show shes having a bottle of wine per night and didnt want 
support from anyone with regard to reducing this as she was trying to do this herself.
In July 2021, her GP records show shed further reduced her medication.
In July 2021, she was reported to be also having IPT focussed for depression.
Also in July 2021, Mrs R had a telephone assessment with a health advisor, and she 
reported that she had psychological symptoms such as reduced concentration, reduced 
appetite, fatigue, lack of motivation for daily activities and possible self-harm but had no 
intent on taking any action. Mrs R said she had not improved at all since November 2020. 
Her aspiration was to return to work but didnt think this would be in the foreseeable future. 
The telephone assessment reported that Mrs R was not fit to work and perform her duties 
and there wasnt an anticipation for her to return in the near future. She was recommended 
to maintain a daily routine, get outside for walks, utilise the techniques taught in therapy and 
engage in meaningful activities she enjoys.
In August 2021, her records show she had continued to attend the golf and had found the 
therapy extremely helpful.
In October 2021, a further sick note was provided by her GP and notes show Mrs R was 
discharged by the mental health worker. In mid-October 2021, Mrs Rs records show she 
was referred again to the mental health team  she reported her low mood, she was 
experiencing difficulties with her sleep pattern and had a reduced diet. She was spending 
time walking her dog, visiting and assisting close family members.
In December 2021, a letter from the nurse from the mental health team stated Mrs R is 
presenting with moderate to severe depression and had recurrent depression. Mrs R 
described her symptoms as decrease in enjoyment and energy levels, decrease in appetite 
and changes in sleep. Mrs R was continuing to take excessive alcohol and it was suggested, 
she should reduce this.
In January 2022, a report, from the charity Mrs R had been having regular therapy with, was 
provided. The therapist diagnosed Mrs R with Major Depressive Disorder. The 
recommendation from the therapist was that Mrs R has not been and was not in the position 
to return to any form of employment and continued to suffer with severe and enduring 
depression that she was trying to manage both through medication and therapies for the 
condition. The therapist said Mrs R may be able to, through hard work and determination, 
function to a point with her personal life. However, this was by no means close to the level required to hold down any form of employment in the future even on a part time basis.
Mrs R provided all of the further medical evidence to Unum since September 2020 for a 
claim to be considered. This was reviewed and declined on the basis that medical evidence 
didnt show the policy definition of incapacity had been met during the deferred period and 
beyond.
Mrs R was unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint and upheld it. She concluded while Mrs R was known to have suffered from 
depression over many years and had been able to previously work in spite of this, our 
investigator said, at this point, it wasnt enough to say she shouldve been able to carry out 
the duties of her occupation. She also said there was enough medical evidence to show 
Mrs R wasnt able to carry out the duties of her occupation throughout the deferred period 
and ongoing due to depression. Our investigator recommended that the claim should be 
accepted and paid from the end of the deferred period and interest added to each payment 
from the date it was due to the date its paid.
Unum disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me.
In summary, Unum said there isnt sufficient evidence to support that an illness or injury 
prevented Mrs R from performing the material and substantial duties of her insured 
occupation. It didnt dispute that Mrs R has experienced psychological symptoms as a result 
of bereavement, but that didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. Mrs R wasnt seeing a 
medical doctor outside of her GP. The therapist she was seeing couldnt make a psychiatric 
diagnosis and, if Mrs Rs diagnosis is Major Depressive Disorder, its questionable that her 
care was not escalated beyond a therapeutic service. Unum said there had been no clinical 
explanation for this and no further plan for her treatment if it was deemed to be severe.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 January 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs R. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
Im not a medical professional. In order to reach any decision on Mrs Rs medical condition, 
it is necessary for me to rely on the information provided from those who have seen and 
treated her.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Mrs Rs policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of the 
insurance contract with Unum.Page 44 of the policy document refers to the policy definition of incapacity. This says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation.
Based on the above, there is cover in the event of incapacity on Mrs Rs policy. The issue in 
dispute however is that Unum says Mrs R doesnt meet this policy definition of incapacity.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
In September 2020, Mrs Rs GP records show that she was feeling stronger and enjoying 
days out and her medical certificate showed her absence was extended due to work related 
stress. Mrs Rs husband sadly passed away in September 2020 and she advised her GP 
she was coping well as she had support from her sons and that she was keeping busy and 
sleeping well. She said she was struggling with low mood due to the sudden bereavement.
Unum agreed to consider a claim from September 2020 because there was an indication of 
a possible deterioration to Mrs Rs health at this time due to the bereavement. Her GP 
recorded her condition as depression whereas previously her condition had been recorded 
as work-related stress. On 26 October 2020, she was issued with a medical certificate for 
depression.
Mrs Rs occupation was account executive. In order for the policy definition of incapacity to 
be met, the medical evidence would need to show Mrs R couldnt carry out the duties of the 
occupation of an account executive due to illness or injury. This complaint concerns Mrs Rs 
claim from September 2020, and Ive therefore reviewed any updated GP records, medical 
information provided and other relevant reports from this point onwards. Unums company 
medical officer has provided a summary of their observations which I have also considered.
For me to decide whether Mrs R meets the policy definition of incapacity I need to be 
satisfied that she would have been unable to perform the material and substantial duties of 
her insured occupation because of illness or injury throughout the deferred period and 
beyond.
Ive considered that Mrs R has at least a 10-year history of work-related stress and more 
recently, depressive symptoms. Over those previous 10 years, Mrs R had been able to work, 
even when experiencing increased restrictions in her daily life due to stress and anxiety.
Ive also considered the recent report from Mrs Rs therapist. I appreciate that Mrs R is 
recorded to suffer from depression. However, I note there are some inconsistencies between 
the therapist's report and the GP records. Specifically, Mrs Rs symptom reporting, and her 
level of function differed from what had been reported to the GP aligned mental health 
practitioner. The therapist recorded a diagnosis of severe and enduring depression but did 
not provide an explanation for this diagnosis. This doesnt seem consistent with other 
evidence provided which until September 2020 said she suffered from stress related to work 
and personal factors. These symptoms had been present for a number of years and over 
most of this time Mrs R had not been restricted from working. It did not appear that Mrs Rs 
therapist had distinguished between her stress symptoms and her depressive symptoms (as 
a result of the bereavement she suffered). There is no explanation of how the diagnosis was 
made or why it has been present for over 10 years. While I appreciate the report from the 
therapist, I would have expected that further referrals would have been made considering she thought Mrs R had Major Depressive Disorder and a further referral to a medical 
practitioner would have been recommended. I cant see that this happened especially as she 
was reported as not fit to work. Theres also no plan of action suggested bearing in mind the 
assessment of Mrs Rs illness. So, overall, there are inconsistencies with whats been 
reported and whats been recorded in the GP records.
I note that Mrs R believes she has a significant illness causing impairment to function, that 
would prevent her from undertaking the material duties at work.
Unums company medical officer (CMO) reviewed the new medical evidence and said, in the 
past neither Mrs Rs experience of emotional/psychological difficulties nor impairment of her 
domestic functioning had been associated with an inability to undertake the requirements of 
her insured occupation. Furthermore, during her recent absence, the evidence indicated that 
Mrs R had maintained a reasonable level of general function. There was no documented 
change in presentation, and it had been established that Mrs R had been able to work with 
her symptoms for over 10 years.
In regard to Mrs Rs general day-to-day functioning, she had reported in mid-2021 that she 
had met friends for a birthday, was taking her dog for a walk, taken up golf and her general 
diet had improved. This shows to me that she was able to function and was leading a life 
that generally showed improvement. Her medication had also been significantly reduced and 
she was doing well overall. From this information available, in the context of Mrs Rs overall 
well-being, it showed she had improved and was taking on normal daily activities which 
were not restricted or confined. And in the context of her overall medical history over the 
years of suffering from stress/depression, she was still able to work. The evidence doesnt 
suggest the stress/depression she suffered from over the previous years prevented her from 
working. If shes performing daily general activities such as walking the dog or cooking and 
taking up golf, then I think this demonstrates she could also have worked and at least 
considered a phased return.
I dont doubt that there have been periods of low mood, work-related stress and depression. 
But from the evidence provided, during those past periods, Mrs R was also able to go to 
work. It seems to me that the most recent period from September 2020, Mrs R was 
understandably suffering from the loss of her husband, and this had clearly had an impact to 
her mental well-being. I appreciate she had some group sessions to help her manage the 
grief but there were only further notes that she was unfit to work.
Mrs R confirmed she was able to perform her daily tasks at home and showed improvement 
in this but hasnt been able to explain why she hasnt been able to perform her material and 
substantial duties of her role at work.
There is evidence in the medical records that the medication Mrs R was on, was not having 
effect and that suggests to me that she was suffering as a result of the bereavement of her 
husband rather than a long-term depressive disorder.
Having considered all the evidence available I have been unable to conclude that this has 
shown a deterioration in Mrs R long term condition. The only changes reported have been 
non-medical in nature specifically the source of Mrs Rs problems during the new deferred 
period being bereavement and stress, which have been confirmed by Unums CMO. Im not 
persuaded she has met the definition of incapacity under the terms and conditions of her 
policy or that bereavement and stress are considered long term medical conditions. There 
are a number of reported inconsistencies between the GP records and the therapist report. 
From June 2021 to October 2021, Mrs Rs activities and records didnt indicate restrictions.
Mrs Rs symptoms were consistent with stress and bereavement and suggests that she had a good level of general function and there was no reported adverse effect on her mental 
state. While she continued to report experiencing low mood, Mrs R reported improvement in 
her long-standing anxiety.
Overall, the medical evidence related to the period since 29 September 2020, does not 
indicate that Mrs R had a significant impairment of her function because of a mental illness. 
Her health problems seem to suggest they are to do with work related stress and personal 
circumstances and not because of a significant medical condition. There are also several 
notes suggesting excessive alcohol intake which can exacerbate feelings of depression.
I appreciate the therapist which Mrs R had been seeing diagnosed her condition as Major 
Depressive Order, but this diagnosis hasnt been confirmed by a medical doctor and there is 
no clinical or psychiatric diagnosis or escalation beyond the therapy she was receiving. 
Theres no suggestion of further clinical referrals.
I understand Mrs R has experienced some difficult circumstances which understandably 
have been upsetting. However, Im looking at whether the claim meets the policy definition of 
incapacity and based on the evidence available, I cant reasonably say this fulfils the 
definition of incapacity as defined by the policy.
Im not persuaded overall that there is sufficient evidence to support an illness or injury 
prevented Mrs R from performing the material and substantial duties of her insured 
occupation. Mrs R showed an overall improvement in her anxiety and her medication was 
gradually reduced and then stopped between May and August 2021. She showed no 
adverse effect in her mental state and although her mood was low, this seems consistent 
with her circumstances rather than a mental illness. I agree she has suffered stress and 
depressive symptoms, but I think this is largely due to the bereavement. But Im not 
persuaded overall it meets the policy definition of incapacity.
Mrs R needs to show shes been unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her 
insured occupation because of illness or injury throughout the deferred and beyond. Having 
taken everything into account, Im not satisfied that shes met the definition of incapacity as 
per her policy terms and conditions.
Mrs R responded to my provisional decision. She has provided additional comments and 
also some supporting evidence, which includes a statement from the occupational therapist 
Mrs R had been seeing and who diagnosed her with the Major Depressive Disorder. I will 
refer to the comments and information provided below. 
The further comments and information were then provided to Unum for consideration and 
comment. It responded and said the case was discussed in detail with its company 
psychiatrist. It said the latest information did not alter its opinion on Mrs Rs functional and 
medical situation during the deferred period. Unums doctor explained the statement from 
Mrs Rs therapist outlined the diagnostic criteria but didnt add understanding of Mrs Rs 
functional status during the deferred period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate the further comments and evidence provided by 
Mrs R which I have considered carefully, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why. Mrs R has provided comments and further explanations to my provisional decision. Ive 
looked at those. There are parts which relate to the period which pre-dates September 2020. 
I confirm that I wont be providing comment on those because theyre not relevant to the 
claim and the complaint that Im looking at here. Ill consider the information thats relevant to 
the period from September 2020.
I would like to again re-iterate that in deciding this complaint, Ive focused on what I consider 
to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on each and every point. And Im not a 
medical professional. In order to reach any decision on Mrs Rs medical condition, it is 
necessary for me to rely on the information provided from those who have seen and treated 
her.
Mrs R has provided further information regarding the changes in her medication, the various 
therapy sessions shes had over time and also further detail regarding her job role in order to 
provide context on why she feels she is not fit to return to work. Shes explained additionally 
that just because she tried to carry out normal day to day activities (as had been 
recommended during her therapy) such as cooking, walking her dog, taking up golf and 
meeting friends, that didnt mean she was ready to return to the pressures of work because 
that required a different level of skill and diligence. I understand that Mrs R has had a 
challenging time but the information shes provided isnt enough to explain why shes not 
able to carry out the material and substantial duties of her role. Looking at the evidence, 
there was a period from around May/June 2021 to October 2021 where she had shown 
positive signs in terms of being able to carry out day to day tasks. I understand that doesnt 
mean she can perform the duties of her role. But theres evidence to suggest that during this 
time, she had a good level of general function and there was no reported adverse effect on 
her mental state. While she continued to report experiencing low mood, Mrs R reported 
improvement in her long-standing anxiety. 
She has also provided a statement from her therapist from the charity. I understand Mrs R 
had over 37 sessions, starting in January 2021, with her and she was diagnosed with 
Major Depressive Disorder by her too. The latest information from the therapist provides a 
criterion for diagnosis that would be used when making an assessment. The therapist has 
confirmed her experience and qualifications in dealing with mental health. I dont doubt her 
experience or wish to demean it, but her qualifications dont go far as providing a medical 
opinion as a clinical psychiatrist would. I understand the time she has spent with Mrs R has 
helped the therapist to reach the diagnosis. However, there has been no further clinical 
referral to a medical professional bearing in mind that Mrs R has a diagnosis.  Based on the 
evidence available, Im not persuaded the evidence goes as far as demonstrating Mrs R 
cannot perform the material and substantial duties of her role. 
Mrs R has provided further appendices in response to my provisional decision. Ive 
considered these also. 
Ive looked at the letter dated January 2023 from her GP which states she is not fit to return 
to her job role due to long standing depression. This is a generic letter with no explanation 
as to the reasons on why the GP believes shes not fit to return to work. The symptoms 
appear to be self-reported. Looking at the historical GP records, I can see the GP has 
provided notes over time that Mrs R isnt fit to work and has made referrals to mental health 
therapy. I can see Mrs R has had various types of therapy but there is no clinical referral or 
opinion shown. So, outside of her GP, Mrs R has not provided a medical opinion of her 
diagnosis to show she is unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her insured 
role. 
There is a letter from a social worker who helped Mrs R with her golf sessions and provided 
support to integrate her into the club. While the letter explains Mrs R displayed symptoms of anxiety and she struggled in the social setting, the social worker also explains that Mrs R 
regularly plays golf with her, and that Mrs R has indeed joined the golf club. It seems to me 
that Mrs R has been able to integrate into the club and the letter confirms she plays golf 
regularly.  Im therefore not persuaded that Mrs R has met the definition of incapacity under 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive considered the letter from a clinical psychologist that Mrs R provided, but this refers to 
ten sessions Mrs R had in January 2020. The sessions were relating to her time off work due 
to pressures she was facing and personal concerns relating to her family. She was suffering 
from low mood and mild depression. This period isnt relevant to this complaint, so I wont be 
commenting further on this. 
Mrs R says if the reasons for her ill health were related mainly to work or bereavement, 
then given the time lapsed one would expect to see an improvement in her health. 
However, this is not the case, and she says she is on stronger medication and continues 
to receive counselling support. I think this is precisely why Im not satisfied that the policy 
definition of incapacity has been under the policy terms and conditions. The conditions 
Mrs R is suffering from and have been recorded by her GP have been, on the whole, 
self-reported and, as she says, based on her medication and the continued counselling 
support, one would indeed expect to see an improvement over time. I note that between 
May 2021 and around August/September 2021, Mrs R has shown signs of improvement. 
However, after having seen the therapist at the charity for a number of sessions, she was 
then diagnosed with Major Depressive Disorder. Based on this diagnosis, I would have 
expected at some point around this time, given her history of anxiety and depression, that 
Mrs R would have been referred to a clinical psychiatrist and a medical opinion to be 
sought. In the absence of this, all the evidence, including the additional information 
provided following my provisional decision, points to self-reporting of symptoms to the GP 
who in turn referred Mrs R to various channels of counselling and therapy. 
I dont doubt that Mrs R has suffered from anxiety and depression and Im sorry its been a 
challenging time. But Im not persuaded the evidence provided is enough to meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. Therefore, I dont think Mrs R has sufficiently demonstrated 
shes unable, by reason of her illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation throughout the deferred period and beyond.
Overall, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Unum has declined Mrs Rs 
income protection claim unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require Unum to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaints about Unum Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman