DRN-4090054
The complaint
Mr M complains that he received less than he was expecting when an endowment policy he 
held with ReAssure Limited matured.
In order to put matters right Mr M would like ReAssure to pay him the correct amount he 
feels he should have received.
What happened
Mr M took out a with-profits endowment policy in 1982. The policy had a 40 year term. 
In August 2021, Mr M received an annual statement from ReAssure. The statement set out, 
under the heading Your policy at a glance:
On 7 July 2021 your policys surrender value was £26,821.33.
This is the surrender value you would get if you surrendered your policy today.
Mr M held the policy to its maturity date in early 2022 and continued to pay regular premiums 
into the policy until it matured.
In February 2022 Mr M received a total of £24,438.64 from ReAssure in respect of his 
endowment policy.
Mr M queried the payment he had received from ReAssure as he felt it was less than he 
should have received. He also asked for details of historic bonuses that had been applied to 
the with-profits fund.
ReAssure set out how the lump sum Mr M had received had been calculated, including the 
bonuses that had been applied. It said it was satisfied that the amount Mr M had received 
was correct. But it noted that it had incorrectly told Mr M that it couldnt confirm historic 
bonus rates, when he first queried the lump sum he had received, and it paid Mr M £75 for 
this error on its part. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response he received from ReAssure and referred his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator said she thought ReAssure should pay Mr M a further £75, in addition to the 
£75 it had already paid him. She said she didnt think ReAssure had done enough to explain 
to Mr M why the amount he received when his policy matured was less than the July 2021 
valuation he had been provided with. 
She noted that more recently ReAssure had explained that the value of Mr Ms policy fell 
between the valuation in July 2021 and early 2022, when the policy matured, as issues with 
Covid and the conflict in Ukraine had caused unpredictable market fluctuations in early 2022. 
But she said she hadnt seen anything to show that ReAssure had explained this to Mr M. 
Mr M was not satisfied with our investigators view and his complaint was passed to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr M feels his policy should not have fallen in value between July 2021 and 
early 2022, particularly as he continued to make regular payments into it and because, as Mr 
M has explained,  the financial indices that this policy was invested in increased during 
the period 7/7/21 and 1/2/22.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position. But having carefully considered this complaint I dont 
think ReAssure acted incorrectly when the amount it paid Mr M when his policy matured was 
less than the valuation he received dated July 2021. Ill explain why.
As Mr M is aware, his policy was invested in a with-profits fund. The reversionary bonuses 
(also known as annual bonuses) once added cant usually be taken away. But the terminal 
bonus he received was not guaranteed and was only added to Mr Ms policy at the end of 
the policy term.  Final bonus rates can change without notice.
The final bonus reflected the difference between the amount ReAssure had already 
guaranteed to pay Mr M (by way of reversionary bonuses) and the overall amount the fund 
manager decided was fair to pay policy holders at that time.
It's important to explain that the bonuses paid on a with profits-fund are not a direct reflection 
of the current performance of the underlying investments. This is because the fund manager 
will consider the profit made on the underlying investments and employ smoothing to ensure 
bonuses can be added in later years when markets may be underperforming. Smoothing is 
intended to smooth out some of the short-term ups and downs that an investor would 
otherwise be exposed to if they invested directly in the stock market.
ReAssure also had to keep sufficient funds to pay the guarantees that have to be awarded 
(for example the accrued bonuses) when investments are cashed in. For these reasons, the 
performance of a with-profits fund doesn't necessarily reflect the current performance of the 
stock market, or the performance of the stock market over the life of the investment.
So, although I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position, and I understand why he feels the 
surrender value of his policy should not have reduced between July 2021 and early 2022, I 
cant reasonably find that ReAssure acted incorrectly when it paid out less than the 
surrender value it provided to Mr M, dated July 2021.
I have also reviewed the breakdown of the payment Mr M received and the fund factsheet 
for the with-profits fund Mr M was invested in. Having done so I havent seen anything that 
shows or suggests that ReAssure made an error when it calculated the lump sum it paid to 
Mr M.  
It is always disappointing when an investment does not perform as well as expected, but I 
cant reasonably find that ReAssure acted incorrectly when the lump sum it paid to Mr M on 
the maturity of his policy was less than the valuation it had provided seven months earlier. I 
have not seen anything that shows or suggests that ReAssure told Mr M that the July 2021 
surrender value was guaranteed. And I am satisfied that ReAssure was entitled to determine 
the bonuses paid, including the terminal bonus Mr M received.That said, like our investigator I do think ReAssure should have done more to assist Mr M 
when he queried why the lump sum he received was over £2,000 less than the valuation he 
had received dated July 2021. I think the £75 our investigator has recommended is fair for 
the trouble and upset this caused Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. To 
put matters right ReAssure Limited should pay Mr M a further £75, in addition to the £75 it 
has already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman