DRN-1978754
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with problems that hes encountered trying to use TSB Bank plcs online 
service.  
What happened
Mr W is a sole trader and has a business account with TSB. In April 2018, TSB implemented 
an IT systems upgrade, and since that time Mr W has been unable to view his business 
credit card account balance online. This has meant that Mr W has had difficulty managing 
his business account and has resulted in Mr W making multiple trips to the cash machine as 
well as spending considerable time liaising with TSB to try to get the issue corrected. 
Because of this, at the start of 2019, Mr W made a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ws complaint and issued a response in February 2019. TSB 
acknowledged that there had been technical issues since the systems upgrade and 
apologised to Mr W because of this. TSB also made an offer of compensation totalling £300 
to Mr W at this time.
Unfortunately, the issues that Mr W was experiencing persisted, and he made a further 
complaint. TSB responded to this complaint in September 2019, and at this time they notified 
Mr W that they had made a business decision not to offer online business credit card 
services until future notice. TSB also felt that the compensation that they had previously 
offered to Mr W was sufficient, and so they didnt uphold his continuing complaint.
Mr W wasnt happy with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that TSB had been right to compensate 
Mr W, but that the £300 compensation previously offered was for the period of time leading 
to TSBs first complaint response in February 2019, and so shouldnt be considered as being 
applicable for the continuing problems that Mr W had experienced after this. So, our 
investigator recommended that TSB pay aa further £150 to Mr W.
Mr W remained dissatisfied and didnt feel that the additional compensation went far enough. 
So, his complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for the 
same reasons.
TSB dont dispute that Mr W has experienced issues and that the ability to view business 
credit card transactions on line hasnt been available for Mr W since 2018. So, it does seem 
fair that they should compensate Mr W for this, and TSB have accepted our investigators 
recommendation about this.
However, it is notable that TSB explained to Mr W, in their complaint response letter of 
September 2019, that online business credit cards facilities wont be offered to TSB 
customers from that time until further notice. Because of this, I dont consider that Mr W has 
been disadvantaged from this time and has chosen to continue his relationship with TSB 
knowing that this service isnt provided by TSB from that point. 
And TSB have already compensated Mr W for the period leading up to their earlier complaint 
response letter of February 2019. So, I feel that it is appropriate that our investigator should 
have considered that additional compensation should be paid to Mr W for the period 
between these two dates.
I understand that Mr W feels that the additional £150 recommended by our investigator 
doesnt go far enough considering the level of trouble that he has experienced. Offers of 
compensation can be a subjective issue, but I must note that this offer is commensurate with 
what I would expect to see here, given the circumstances, and I wont be asking TSB to 
increase this offer of compensation here.
This means that I will be upholding this complaint on the same basis as our investigator 
suggested here, because I feel that asking TSB to make a further payment of £150 to Mr W 
for the period of time specified above is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I 
realise that this may not be the result that Mr W was wanting, but I hope he can understand, 
given my explanation above, why I have reached the decision that I have.
Putting things right
TSB should make a further payment of £150 to Mr W, if they have not already done so.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman