DRN-2095123
The complaint
Mr S complains AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his buildings insurance claim for damage 
caused to his garage.
Any references to AXA include its agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr S Ive considered all of the points hes raised but Im going to focus my 
decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXAs definition of a storm is a period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 
55 mph. AXA said they couldnt see any prevailing storm conditions on or around the 
time the damage was noted. I can see around the time the issues presented 
themselves, there were wind speeds of up to 66 mph near to the location of Mr S 
Garage. But Ive also thought about whether the storm conditions were the main 
cause of the damage
When they visited the property, AXA said they could see no evidence of storm 
related damage. They said, the felt on the garage roof had cracked and looked to 
have come to the end of its serviceable life - and the damage had occurred due to 
deterioration over time. The policy excludes cover for loss or damage due to wear 
and tear or any gradually operating cause, so AXA declined the claim on this basis.
Mr S didnt agree with this and submitted information from his own contractor. The 
contractor says the damage was caused by the material being blown and ripped off 
by force in the storm. But In their report, they also said the existing garage roof was 
showing signs of rotting and decay and needed to be completely renewed
AXA and Mr S have both provided photos of the garage and I can see from the 
photos the damage appears to be consistent with the garage deteriorating. Rot or the 
level of deterioration to the garage shown in the photos generally tends to occur over 
a longer period of time. I appreciate the storm might have served to highlight the 
issues described by Mr S, but based on the evidence available to me, I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to conclude the main cause of the damage was gradual 
deterioration. So because of this, I think AXA have applied the exclusion fairly when 
declining Mr S claim
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman