DRN-2045672
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about how Legal & General Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim they made under their landlord building insurance policy for water damage.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 June 2020  a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I intended to uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint and how I should L&G should 
resolve it. I said:
 What happened
Mrs and Mr M owned a property, which they had rented out to a tenant for five years. On 16 
August 2019 their tenant vacated their property. And, following their departure, Mrs and Mr 
M discovered substantial damage had been caused to their bath, bathroom flooring and 
ceiling of their lounge/dining room.
Mrs and Mr M said their tenant had attempted to repair two cracks in the bath themselves by 
using sealant and wedging a lump of timber underneath. They said this was without their 
knowledge. And they felt the damage to the bath, and subsequent unsuccessful repair, had 
caused water to leak underneath.
Mrs and Mr M further stated that their tenants had inserted a screw driver through their 
dining room ceiling, which was bulging due to water escaping from the bathroom above. And 
they said this was done to relieve pressure and allow water to escape.
Mrs and Mr M held a landlord buildings insurance policy, which was underwritten by L&G. 
So, they contacted it to make a claim. L&G appointed a loss adjuster to attend their property 
and assist it in dealing with the claim. Ill refer to them as D throughout this decision.
When D visited Mrs and Mr Ms property they informed it thered been an escape of water 
due to failed seals and grout to the bathroom at least three years prior to the date of this 
incident. They said they hadnt reported this to their insurer as they were aware that a claim 
would be excluded under their policy terms. They said, following that escape of water, theyd 
replaced the sealant and taps and had the grout repaired. So, they felt the damage they 
found unrelated to this previous escape of water.
But D disagreed. It said the amount of water that had caused the ceiling to bulge wouldnt 
have been due to the cracks in the bath, which it said were small. Instead, it thought the 
damage to the ceiling was old. So, it thought the escape of water had most likely been 
caused by failed sealant and grout that had occurred over three years ago  rather than it 
being due to a one off incident.
Mrs and Mr M disputed Ds opinion. They provided L&G with an inspection report from their 
property manager, which was dated November 2018. They said this was the last inspection that had been undertaken on their tenanted property. And they said there was no evidence 
of the damage reported to L&G within that report.
L&G considered the report Mrs and Mr M had provided but it told them it was declining their 
claim based on Ds findings. It felt the damage theyd reported had occurred over three years 
ago and was due to issues with their grouting and sealant, which was excluded under the 
terms of their policy. And it also declined to settle their claim on the basis of accidental 
damage.
Mrs and Mr M werent happy that L&G had declined to settle their claim. So, they 
complained to our service. Our investigator assessed the information provided by Mrs and 
Mr M and L&G and recommended that this complaint should be upheld.
Overall, our investigator thought the escape of water post had happened after November 
2018. And they felt it had been caused because of the damaged bath. They thought, 
because the property had been tenanted, Mrs and Mr M hadnt had opportunity of seeing the 
damage prior to 16 August 2019. So, they were persuaded Mrs and Mr M had reported their 
claim as soon as they were aware of the problem.
To resolve this complaint our investigator recommended that L&G settle the claim and 
compensate Mrs and Mr M £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience theyd been 
caused. They also thought it should cover their loss of rental income. Mrs and Mr M 
accepted our investigators view but L&G didnt. So the matter has come before me for a 
decision as to how this complaint should be decided.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from what 
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, in addition to telling L&G to pay 
compensation to Mrs and Mr M, our investigator recommended that it should meet their 
claim and cover their loss of rental income. Having thought very carefully about what Mrs 
and Mr M and L&G have said Ive reached slightly different findings to our investigators 
recommendation as to the fairest way to resolve this complaint. So, Ill explain what I think 
L&G should do in this provisional decision.
Theres no dispute that there was damage to Mrs and Mr Ms property. However, theres a 
disagreement between them and L&G about the cause of the damage and the correct 
outcome of this claim. The crux of this complaint is whether L&G acted reasonably in 
declining this claim.
The terms of Mrs and Mr Ms policy require there to be a tenancy agreement in place if a 
property is let. Im satisfied this condition is met here because by Mrs and Mr M had 
employed the services of a property manager who was undertaking inspections on their 
behalf. This persuades me there was a valid tenancy agreement in place at the time the 
damage occurred.
Page 23 of the Mrs and Mr Ms policy booklet details the inspection requirements a 
policyholder must meet. It states:
You or a representative must inspect the home internally, including the loft area and 
externally at least every 6 months whilst the home is tenanted... A record of dates, times and 
any observations must be recorded and made availablein the event of a claim.I can see inspections were undertaken from 2015 until 2018. While they werent always 
undertaken in line with the schedule the policy laid out, Mrs and Mr Ms property manager 
told our service this was due to the tenants preventing access. And so, they often found it 
difficult to inspect Mrs and Mr Ms property as a result.
I think what the property manager has said here explains why more frequent inspections 
werent possible. And, I also think inspections took place when the property manage was 
able to gain access. The frequency of inspections here was beyond the control of both Mrs 
and Mr M and their property manager. And Im pleased to see that L&G hasnt taken issue 
with the number of inspections undertaken or declined a claim on that basis. Overall, Im 
persuaded that in employing the services of a property manager, Mrs and Mr M were taking 
reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage as their policy requires.
The date of damage in this case is important here. L&G believes the damage was caused by 
the escape of water Mrs and Mr M suffered three years prior to August 2019. But Mrs and Mr 
M say it happened some time between the last inspection of their property and the date their 
tenant vacated their property. They say this is supported by the content of the 2018 
inspection report they sent L&G.
L&G feels it cant rely on the inspection report it was provided as evidence that the damage 
that was reported in August 2019 wasnt present at that time. It states this because the 
report its seen doesnt comment on the condition of the lounge or dining area. And it doesnt 
think its right to infer that this means no damage was present in those rooms.
I asked Mrs and Mr M to provide our service with all inspection reports from the period that 
their property was occupied by their tenants. Its clear from the reports Ive seen that the 
practice of Mrs and Mr Ms property manager is that theyd only record damage or changes 
to the propertys condition. This is supported by photographic evidence, which is also 
included in their reports.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded if damage had been present during a property 
inspection it would have been documented. And I therefore think I can safely conclude that if 
a room isnt mentioned in the report its because no damage or change to that rooms 
condition was present at the time of the inspection.
Having carefully considered the inspection reports from July 2017 and November 2018 
theres no reference to, or evidence of, the damage Mrs and Mr M reported to L&G after their 
tenants left. Theres a photograph of the bath in the later report but no evidence of any 
damage. This all satisfies me that the damage wasnt present in either 2017 or 2018  and 
Im therefore not persuaded it was caused by the previous issue that Mrs and Mr M 
volunteered to D.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied the damage must have happened 
between the date of the last inspection report and 16 August 2019. And I think this was, 
most likely, due to the damaged bath.
I can see L&G disputes cracks in the bath caused the damage reported by Mrs and Mr M in 
August 2019. It states the cracks are small and therefore couldnt have caused the damage 
seen. But I can see from photographs our service has received that they span the complete 
width of the bath. So, Im satisfied theyre substantial. And its plausible they may have 
caused water to escape to the extent it did here.
Its clear that the tenants attempt at remedial work was inadequate. Theyd attempted a 
repair themselves. And, Im satisfied this is something about which Mrs and Mr M were 
unaware. Based on the photographs Ive seen, its understandable how water continued to escape from the bathroom through the damaged bath  even after the amateur repair that 
was made.
The terms of Mrs and Mr Ms policy exclude water damage thats occurred gradually. 
However, our services approach here would be to determine whether the consumer ought to 
have been aware of the damage happening gradually and took reasonable action once they 
became aware.
Ive already explained why Im not persuaded that the damage was present during property 
inspections on, or prior to, November 2018. I understand there were no further property 
inspections after that date. So, Im persuaded that Mrs and Mr M were unaware of the 
damage to the bath until their tenant vacated their property in August 2019. And this means 
they couldnt have told L&G or have taken any steps to prevent the damage becoming worse 
until the date their tenants left.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Mrs and Mr M took prompt action by inspecting their 
rental property on the date it was vacated and in contacting L&G to report a claim. I also 
think they took proactive steps to remedy the damage once they were aware L&G were 
declining their claim. It follows that it wouldnt be fair for L&G to rely on a gradual damage 
exclusion here.
Mrs and Mr Ms insurance policy covers them for losses which have been caused by 
accidental damage. For a claim to be settled under this clause it must be shown that the 
damage was caused by a sudden and unexpected event from an outside force.
I recognise that its impossible to know how the bath was cracked based on the evidence our 
service has available. But, like our investigator, I think its difficult to understand how a bath 
would crack without it happening suddenly, unexpectedly or due to an outside force. Im 
therefore satisfied the damage to the bath falls within the accidental damage clause of Mrs 
and Mr Ms policy.
For the reasons outlined above Im persuaded it would be fair to ask L&G to meet the claim 
Mrs and Mr Ms made in connection with the water damage to their tenanted property.
I understand that Mrs and Mr M werent able to rent their property after their tenants left, 
which is understandable given the damage that had been caused. Their policy covers them 
for loss of rental income. But I havent seen evidence that there was a signed tenancy 
agreement confirming future occupation. And this means Im not persuaded theres been any 
loss of income here.
In the overall circumstances, Im not satisfied that I can fairly tell L&G to compensate Mrs 
and Mr Ms for any loss of rent they may have incurred. While our investigator recommended 
L&G meet a claim under this part of the policy. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade 
me that this would be fair.
I can understand how upsetting and inconvenient it must have been to Mrs and Mr M when 
L&G declined their claim. Our investigator recommended that it pay £150 compensation to 
them to reflect the distress and inconvenience they experienced because their claim was  
declined. Mrs and Mr M were happy with this a d this it fairly reflects the trouble and upset 
they were caused here.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.L&G has indicated it accepts my provisional decision. But Mrs and Mr M have responded 
with some comments about the issues they disagree with.
Mrs and Mr M say they were unable to market their property to future tenants given the 
condition it had been left in by the tenants that vacated their property in August 2019. So, 
theyve asked me to tell L&G to compensate them for their loss of rental income during the 
period that their property was not in a lettable condition. They said theyd always been able 
to let their property quickly historically. And so it would be unfair for L&G not to cover their 
loss here.
Mrs and Mr M also stated they were unaware theyd accepted the £150 compensation our 
investigator had recommended in their view. And they wanted clarification as to what my 
provisional decision meant where I had stated L&G should pay their claim in connection with 
the water damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill focus first on the comments Mrs and Mr M have made about their loss of rental income. 
Their insurance policy with L&G covers them for loss of rent where the home is unoccupied 
unless at the time of the incident, there was a signed tenancy agreement to confirm future 
occupation. 
In my provisional decision I explained that the time of the incident, or the time the damage 
occurred, was during the period Mrs and Mr Ms tenants were living in their property. I say 
this because the damage that was caused most likely occurred between November 2018 
(the date of the last property inspection) and August 2019 (the date Mrs and Mr Ms tenants 
vacated their property). 
Based on the evidence that was available to me I couldnt see that Mrs and Mr M incurred a 
loss of rental income during the period their tenants occupied their property. I say this 
because no alternative accommodation costs were incurred. And it appears that their 
tenants continued to occupy the rental property notwithstanding the damage theyd caused. 
So, the loss of rent clause wouldnt be triggered in that scenario.
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr M wouldnt have been in a position to market their property until 
it was reinstated and ready for occupation. However, in order for me to tell L&G to meet a 
claim for loss of rental income a signed tenancy agreement for future occupation is required. 
And as Mrs and Mr M didnt have an agreement of that nature here it would be unfair for me 
to ask L&G to act outside the terms of its policy.
Mrs and Mr M said they werent aware theyd accepted the £150 compensation our 
investigator had recommended in their view. But Ive seen an attendance note confirming 
that when our investigator discussed their recommendation of how L&G should resolve this 
complaint with Mrs and Mr M they stated they were happy with the outcome.
In order to reassure Mrs and Mr M I should explain that even though I noted their 
acceptance of the overall resolution our investigator had recommended in their view I 
considered whether the compensation suggested fairly reflected what had happened. And, 
having carefully considered the trouble and upset Mrs and Mr M would have been caused, I 
was persuaded the compensation recommended by our investigator was reasonable.Finally, Mrs and Mr M wanted clarification as to what my provisional decision meant where I 
had stated L&G should pay their claim in connection with the water damage to their tenanted 
property. This means L&G should cover the reinstatement costs that were incurred (as a 
result of the damage caused) in restoring Mrs and Mr Ms property to its pre-loss condition. 
Their claim would be met in line with the terms and conditions of their policy. And I can see 
that L&G has told our service it will contact Mrs and Mr M in order to discuss how it intends 
to implement the redress I outlined in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Ive carefully considered what Mrs and Mr M have said in response to my provisional 
decision. But I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. I therefore remain persuaded that the fairest way to resolve this complaint would 
be for L&G to pay the claim Mrs and Mr Ms made in connection with the water damage to 
their tenanted property. It should also pay £150 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs and Mr M experienced while their claim was not met. Other than this 
though I don't require L&G to do any more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Legal & General Insurance Limited should 
pay the claim Mrs and Mr Ms made in connection with the water damage to their tenanted 
property. It should also pay £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs and Mr M experienced while their claim was not met.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman