DRN-2663781
The complaint
Mr C complains about a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited 
trading as Nissan Finance, which was used to acquire a brand new car.
What happened
In the autumn of 2020, Mr C made a telephone call to a car sales dealership to talk about an 
advert hed seen for a brand new car. During the call, Mr C says he explained his personal 
circumstances to the dealer, in that he wasnt able to visit the showroom to look at the car. 
Mr C says the dealer agreed to deliver the car to him, so he could see it and for the dealer to 
look at the car he was hoping to part exchange.
Mr C says he spoke to the dealer about paying for the car in full, and the advantages of 
taking out a hire purchase agreement. As part of the finance option, Mr C was offered a 
deposit contribution from the dealer. Mr C says the dealer agreed to process an application 
for the hire purchase agreement, which hed be able to cancel, once Mr C had seen the car 
and decided which option was best for him.
Soon after his conversation with the dealer, Mr C received an email from RCI, containing the 
hire purchase agreement, which he signed using an electronic signature. The car was then 
delivered to Mr C in early October 2020, at which point he says hed made his decision to 
pay for the car in full. So, Mr C says he contacted RCI to end the agreement.
Because the hire purchase agreement had already been put into place, RCI told Mr C that 
he could either withdraw from the agreement, or settle the balance in full. RCI also explained 
that withdrawing from the agreement, would mean Mr C would have to repay the deposit 
contribution paid by the dealer.
Mr C decided to settle the balance owed to RCI in full. This meant he had to pay some 
interest as well as the purchase price of the car. Mr C wasnt happy about that and 
complained to RCI. He said he had to pay more than he should have, because RCI had 
started the hire purchase agreement, before hed taken delivery of the car.
In their final response, RCI said they couldnt be sure what Mr C had arranged with the 
dealer. They said Mr C had chosen the finance option, because of the deposit contribution 
from the dealer and that hed signed the loan agreement, showing he understood what was 
happening.
Mr C didnt accept RCIs response and brought his complaint to us. The case was passed to 
one of our investigators who concluded that it was unlikely that the dealer would have 
delivered the car without it being paid for. The investigator was satisfied that Mr C had 
received and signed the hire purchase agreement and that RCI had given Mr C the 
appropriate options to end it.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the salesperson at the dealership went on holiday after making 
the arrangements with him, and this caused the confusion. He also said he feels cheated 
and wronged by RCI. 
The investigator didnt change their conclusions and Mr Cs case has now been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has told us that the hire purchase agreement should not have started, before he had 
been given a chance to accept delivery of his car. So, Ive thought about the arrangements 
made with the dealer beforehand and what happened when the car was delivered.
In view of Mr Cs personal circumstances, he wasnt able to travel to the dealership to look at 
the car he wanted to buy. I think it was reasonable for Mr C to have made arrangements 
remotely, given what he has told us about his day to day life and the distance he lives from 
the dealer.
The dealer says Mr C discussed paying for the car outright and using finance, but chose the 
finance option, because it included the deposit contribution. I think Mr C had the funds to pay 
for the car outright, because he did so very soon after taking delivery of the car. 
But, I can also see that there was an incentive for Mr C to take the finance option, in that the 
overall purchase price of the car would be cheaper with the dealers deposit contribution. So, 
I think the dealers comments are persuasive here and I think its likely Mr C agreed to take 
the finance option, based on the cost saving.
Ive also looked at the dealers records and RCIs notes from the time, and I cannot see that 
Mr C was told that the car would be delivered without paying for it first. And I agree with the 
investigator, in that I think its unlikely a dealer would deliver a brand new car without that 
security. So, Ive thought more about the hire purchase agreement itself.
The hire purchase agreement was sent to Mr Cs email address on 30 September 2020, and 
he signed the documents electronically on the same afternoon. Page one of the agreement, 
says:
We will pay the Amount of Credit to the Credit Intermediary on the later of (1) the day 
the Agreement is signed by you and (2) the day the Goods are made available to you 
to take delivery or are delivered to your address (as the case may be).
I think the agreement started when Mr C electronically signed it. And that he had accepted 
its terms and conditions, where payments were due to start one month after the agreement 
had begun. I dont think the hire purchase agreement contained a condition, where Mr C 
could have ended it without paying any interest, based on a change of payment method for 
the car. 
I acknowledge Mr Cs point that he hadnt yet taken delivery of the car. But, I think the 
agreement says RCI wouldnt pay the dealer, until the car had been delivered, rather than it 
making a difference to the actual start date.
The agreement also shows a deposit amount of £6,400, £2,000 of which is the dealers 
contribution. This means that the remainder was the amount agreed by the dealer, to accept 
in part exchange for Mr Cs existing car. On balance, I think the dealer and Mr C had already 
agreed a price for the part exchange. I say this because the value was included on the agreement, before the delivery date. I think this adds weight to RCIs argument, that Mr C 
had agreed to take the finance option.
The hire purchase agreement was attached to a covering email from the dealer. Ive thought 
about this email further, as it contains instructions for Mr C to electronically sign the 
agreement. I think the dealers email intimates that the agreement and loan draw down will 
begin, once Mr C completes the photographic identification instructions. While I 
acknowledge what Mr C has told us, I think the dealers communication with him when the 
agreement was signed, shows that he was entering into the finance option.
Mr C says the salesperson at the dealership took annual leave, shortly after agreeing the 
sale. But, looking at all the available evidence, on balance, I dont think the dealer gave Mr C 
the impression the car would be delivered, without a payment structure already in place. So, 
I think RCI treated Mr C fairly when they held him responsible for hire purchase agreement.
Ive also thought about how RCI treated Mr C, when he called them to talk about repaying 
the balance he owed under the agreement. So, Ive listened to the three calls Mr C made to 
RCI, where they gave him the repayment options available. Ive also considered the terms of 
Mr Cs agreement.
Page two of the hire purchase agreement says:
Early Settlement in Full: If you make full repayment of the amounts you owe under 
the Agreement, then the amount you have to repay may be reduced by a rebate of 
charges. If you wish to make early repayment of the full amount under this 
Agreement, you may ask us for a statement showing the amount to be paid after any 
rebate of charges has been allowed.
I think the terms of Mr Cs agreement with RCI allowed for him to settle the amount he owed 
in full, after the appropriate charges were deducted. The settlement amount of £16,325.84 
which RCI gave to Mr C was valid for 28 days. So, the settlement amount included 28 days 
of interest charges, amounting to around £60. I think RCI have applied the interest charge 
correctly, given that the amount Mr C had borrowed under the agreement was £16,265.
I can also see from the agreement that it sets out Mr Cs responsibility, where he may need 
to repay the dealers deposit contribution. So, Im satisfied RCI fairly applied the terms of the 
agreement, depending on the route Mr C chose to use to end it.
Within the telephone calls, I can hear that Mr C was simply attempting to repay RCI what he 
owed and that he needed to check with the dealer first, before committing. Within each call, I 
think RCI gave Mr C fair warning about what each option meant, in that interest was due to 
the loan, which Mr C had a responsibility to pay. Or, that he may have to repay the dealer, 
their contribution to the deposit.
After checking with the dealer, Mr C chose the option where the dealers deposit contribution 
would remain. RCI gave Mr C details of how to make the payment and the agreement was 
ended. Having considered everything, I think RCI treated Mr C fairly here, by explaining the 
repayment options and giving him space to make the best decision for him.
In all the circumstances, I think RCI treated Mr C fairly when he agreed to the hire purchase 
agreement in September 2020, and when he decided to repay the outstanding balance a 
short time afterwards.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman