DRN-4148727
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc did not raise a chargeback for a full refund of his 
purchase of two flights.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr P bought two return flights to another country, for himself and his 
mother. He booked them through a travel agency. The flights were scheduled for November. 
Mr P paid for them with his Santander debit card. The price of the tickets was supposed to 
be about £651 each, but he was unexpectedly charged about £714 each. He complained 
about the price difference, and asked Santander to raise a chargeback, which it did. That 
chargeback was successful, and in December Mr P was refunded about £126, being the 
difference between the correct price and the price actually charged.
Meanwhile Mr Ps mother had become ill, and so neither of them took the flights. After the 
date of the outbound flight, Mr P asked for a full refund, but the travel agency said its policy 
was that it paid no refunds for cancelled flights. (Flights could be re-booked for alternative 
dates instead.) Mr R then asked Santander for a full refund, but Santander declined to do 
that, as only one chargeback can be raised for a transaction, and a chargeback had already 
happened. (Santander did pay him £150 by way of apology for some modest customer 
service failings while speaking to him on some phone calls about the chargeback process.) 
Being dissatisfied with that outcome, Mr P brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Santander could not raise a 
second chargeback, and if it had tried to re-open the original chargeback then there would 
not have been a realistic prospect of success. That was because Mr P had not asked for a 
refund until after the date of the flights. (He thought £150 was fair compensation for the 
matters for which it had been paid.)
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He said that due to having been made 
redundant, he could not afford the loss of £1,300. He also showed us an email he had 
received from the airline saying that the airline had recently paid another refund to the travel 
agency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Once a chargeback has been raised for a transaction, a second chargeback cannot be 
raised for the same transaction. I have thought about what might have happened if 
Santander had sought to re-open the first chargeback (assuming thats possible) to claim a 
full refund instead of a partial one. However, I dont think that would have been successful 
either, because Mr P did not ask for a full refund until after he and his mother had missed 
their flights. For that reason, I dont think that Santander was obliged to refund him, or that it 
could have obtained a favourable outcome under the chargeback scheme.
(I have still considered the recent email from the airline to Mr P, which says the airline has 
paid a refund to the travel agency. But I dont think this helps Mr P. His card payment was 
made to the travel agency, not to the airline, and so any chargeback dispute could only be 
raised against the travel agency. So the chargeback would have to be decided taking into 
account the travel agencys terms and conditions about cancelled flights, not the airlines. 
The flight booking confirmation says there are no refunds in the event of cancellation. 
Nevertheless, the travel agencys terms and conditions (which are published on its website) 
contradicts that, saying You must call us on [phone number] to change or cancel your trip. 
However, that does not assist Mr P, because the travel agency told our investigator that 
Mr P had approached the airline directly to ask it for a refund, without telling the agency (this 
was after the partial refund of £126 had been paid to him as a result of the successful 
chargeback). So because he had not complied with the agencys refund policy, it said it was 
still not obliged to refund him the £958 it has received from the airline. Having regard to the 
agencys terms and conditions, I dont think a chargeback could have compelled the agency 
to forward the second refund to Mr P.)
Finally, I agree that the £150 Santander paid Mr P for making some errors in his phone calls 
to the bank is fair compensation for that issue.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman