DRN-3309812
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC mishandled and delayed their mortgage 
application before ultimately declining it. Theyve said that this caused them to incur 
additional costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were buying a property which had an agricultural tie (AT)  a restriction on 
the title of the property over who could occupy it. They received mortgage advice from a 
broker.
Information Mr and Mrs S have provided indicates that they were initially looking at taking a 
mortgage with another lender, before the issue of the AT came to light. But that lender would 
not provide lending where an AT was in place.
On 5 May 2021, Mr and Mrs S broker contacted Barclays through its general enquiry 
system. The broker said it was sourcing a mortgage on behalf of clients where the property 
being purchased had an AT. They asked Barclays if it could lend in such situations and 
whether there were any restrictions. Barclays said it could lend and that there were no 
restrictions.
On 10 May 2021 an application was submitted to Barclays for a mortgage. The application 
did not reference the AT. Mr and Mrs S were intending to finalise the purchase by 
30 June 2021  to benefit from the stamp duty exemption in place at the time, due to the 
pandemic. And Ive seen evidence Barclays was reminded of this on several occasions 
during the application process.
On 24 May 2021, Barclays issued a mortgage offer  indicating it was willing to lend.
Mr and Mrs S broker contacted Barclays on the same day, again via its general enquiry 
system. They explained that theyd previously queried with Barclays about an AT and had 
been told that an agreement would be subject to a valuers comments. But the mortgage 
offer that had been issued had been based on an automated valuation, without a valuer 
having been instructed. Barclays said that the broker could either ask the solicitors to raise a 
query or submit a query themselves.
The solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs S subsequently sent an email, with relevant documents 
attached, to Barclays. The copy Ive seen says this was sent on 24 May 2021.
The email form the solicitors explained that the property had an AT, which had come about 
as a result of planning permission in 1973 (a copy of which was enclosed). The solicitors 
said that a certificate of lawfulness (also enclosed) had been issued by the relevant council 
in 2009  confirming it wouldnt seek enforcement for a breach of the AT. And a statement 
from the vendor confirming they had not complied with the AT throughout their ownership of 
the property was also enclosed.
On 4 June 2021 Barclays arranged a valuation. The valuation took place on 15 June 2021, 
with Barclays receiving a copy on 17 June 2021. The valuation stated that the property had 
been valued assuming there is NO agricultural tie as the position was not clear.
Barclays issued two further mortgage offers on 22 June 2021  again indicating it was 
intending to lend. I can see that Mr and Mrs S, their broker and solicitors made repeated 
enquiries in the week following this, asking for confirmation when funds were to be released, 
so that exchange of contract and completion could be arranged and carried out before the 
stamp duty exemption ended.
On 30 June 2021, information was referred to the valuer around the AT. The valuer said that 
based on this information, the property value could be impacted significantly. As a result, 
Barclays declined to advance the funds at that time.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays about its actions. In their initial complaint it is clear 
they understood that the matter was still being considered by Barclays underwriters. And 
Barclays contact notes confirm they werent directly made aware that the lending had been 
declined entirely until a few days later.
After they became aware that Barclays had declined their application, Mr and Mrs S applied 
to another lender for a mortgage. The mortgage was arranged, and they were able to 
complete the purchase of the property on 30 July 2021. But this resulted in them incurring 
stamp duty of £12,500  as the exemption period had ended.
In response to their complaint Barclays agreed that the mortgage application was not 
handled in the way it shouldve been and that a mortgage offer should not have been made. 
But it suggested that the broker was at fault for not making it aware of the AT. So, while it 
said itd pay £500 for the upset caused, it didnt think it should be liable for any of the costs 
incurred. Mr and Mrs S then asked our service to consider their complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2022 explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr and Mrs S complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
From the information Ive seen the application submitted on 10 May 2021, by Mr and Mrs S 
broker on their behalf, didnt mention the restriction on the property  the AT. There isnt a 
specific section within the application for that information to be included. But there is a 
section for any relevant additional details about the property to be included. And I think some 
information about the AT couldve been included at that point.
Ive thought about why that information might not have been included. Ive reviewed the 
enquiry that the broker made to Barclays on 5 May 2021. No details of the specific mortgage 
application were included in that query  so it was general. But the broker did ask Barclays 
directly if it lent where there were ATs on a property and, more importantly, if there were any 
restrictions around this. Barclays answered that it did lend under these circumstances and 
that there were no restrictions. But Barclays has provided extracts from its lending criteria 
that indicate the second part of that statement, that there are no restrictions, is untrue. The 
lending criteria show that, while Barclays will consider applications involving ATs, there are 
in fact restrictions it will place.
So, I think Barclays made an error and gave the broker incorrect information.
That being said, I can see that when the broker contacted Barclays on 24 May 2021, they 
said theyd previously been told that the application involving the AT would be subject to the 
valuers comments. This indicates theyd been given more information after the enquiry on 
5 March 2021 and were aware that some details of the AT ought to have been provided  so 
that the valuer could consider this. While it isnt clear when this additional information about the application process was provided, I cant see that there was any attempt to provide the 
relevant information to Barclays prior to 24 May 2021.
Taking this into account, I do think Barclays made an error initially in the information it 
provided to the broker. But I cant say that this entirely explains why no mention of the AT 
was made in the mortgage application  as it appears from the brokers own comments they 
were aware that this required assessment by the valuer.
As Barclays doesnt appear to have been aware of the AT in respect of this specific 
application prior to 24 May 2021, I dont think I can reasonably say it has caused any delay 
up to that point or that it did anything wrong by issuing the initial mortgage offer based on the 
information available to it.
That being said, I think Barclays has made a number of errors after 24 May 2021, causing 
unnecessary delays.
In its submissions to our service Barclays has said that it became aware of the AT following 
the email from the solicitor dated 24 May 2021 but didnt receive full relevant details until 
30 June 2021  when it declined the application. However, based on the evidence available 
to me, I dont agree with the latter point.
Ive seen a copy of the email sent by Mr and Mrs S solicitors on 24 May 2021. This included 
information and attachments about the AT, when and how this came into effect, confirmation 
that there was not an intention to take any enforcement action in respect of a breach of the 
AT and that said breach had been in effect since the vendors bought the property.
Based on the underwriters notes that have been provided, this information, along with the 
valuers comments on these points, appear to have been behind the decision to decline the 
application. And as Ive said, Im satisfied that this information was available to Barclays from 
24 May 2021  well before Barclays says it was received. But despite this information having 
been provided, Ive seen no evidence of Barclays making any further enquiries about the 
contents of the email.
The extracts Ive seen from Barclays lending criteria indicate that it would take into account 
the opinion of a valuer where an AT is involved, before making its lending decision. So, 
although I think it was in possession of a lot of the relevant information on 24 May 2021, I 
think Barclays was correct to instruct a valuer. And I dont think Barclays was in a position to 
make a lending decision until a valuation was obtained.
There was though, in my view, a delay in Barclays instructing a valuation. The information 
about the AT was sent to Barclays on 24 May 2021. And at the same time the solicitors 
raised the need for a valuation  based on Barclays procedures. But a valuation was not 
instructed until 4 June 2021. Im aware Barclays deals with a large number of applications at 
any one time which can mean tasks are not completed straight away. And, with the 
impending stamp duty deadline I dont doubt it wouldve been particularly busy as demand 
was likely to be higher at that time. But I still think, in the circumstances, a valuation 
shouldve been instructed sooner than it was. And I think itd be fair to say this should really 
have happened within two days. So, I think Barclays has caused a delay which has impacted 
Mr and Mrs S.
The valuation was instructed on 4 June 2021 but wasnt carried out until 15 June 2021 
(7 working days later, accounting for the bank holiday). I havent seen anything to suggest 
this wasnt the first available opportunity. And, as the valuation was carried out by a separate 
business, I dont think Barclays is responsible for the lag between the valuation being 
instructed and carried out. So, even if Barclays had instructed the valuation by no later than 26 May 2021, which I think it shouldve done, that doesnt mean I think it wouldve been 
carried out immediately. I think it is reasonable to say it would likely have taken 
approximately the same amount of time (7 working days). Meaning I think had Barclays not 
delayed instructing the valuation, it wouldve likely taken place by 7 June 2021, rather than 
15 June 2021.
I think Barclays also made an error when instructing the valuation. The information, about 
the AT being in place and details of it, was available to Barclays from 24 May 2021. But the 
valuation Barclays instructed said the property had been valued assuming there is no 
agricultural tie as the position was not clear. This indicates that the information Mr and 
Mrs S solicitors provided to Barclays  that there was an AT  was not shared with the 
valuer. The result was that the valuer did not comment on the specific issue that they 
needed to when the valuation was carried out. And despite Barclays having information that 
there was an AT on the property, Barclays didnt query this with the valuer when it received 
the valuation on 17 June 2021. And I think it ought reasonably to have done so given the 
information available to it.
This resulted in Barclays incorrectly issuing a further mortgage offer when it shouldnt have  
which it has acknowledged. And it led to a delay in the relevant information about the AT 
being referred to the valuer and comments obtained  which only took place on the day that 
completion was scheduled. Id also add, Ive been provided a copy of a call between Mr S 
and a representative of Barclays from 30 June 2021 in which the Barclays staff member 
acknowledged that the entire purpose of the valuation had been for this to be reviewed and 
that the way this had been handled was poor.
Mr and Mrs S have also said that Barclays did not provide clear information about what was 
happening post valuation. And based on what Ive seen, I dont have any reason to doubt 
this, as all of the exchanges between the various parties involved point to Mr and Mrs S and 
their representatives being unaware of what the issue with the application was.
Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria. And I think its decision to decline the 
application was, eventually, made in line with these criteria. And as a result, I cant 
reasonably say it was wrong to decide not to lend. But for the reasons Ive explained, I do 
think it has made a number of errors in its handling of the application. And that these have 
delayed the application, and the lending decision being made and communicated. So, Ive 
thought about what would likely have happened, were it not for these errors.
Mr and Mrs S have said, if Barclays had handled the application better and not delayed its 
decision, they could have arranged an alternative mortgage before the stamp duty 
exemption expired. So, they wouldve avoided paying stamp duty of £12,500. Barclays has 
said that it doesnt think it should be responsible for consequential losses, because the 
broker didnt mention the AT in the initial application.
As Ive explained, I agree that the AT was not mentioned in the application submitted on 
10 May 2021. Barclays did provide incorrect information prior to this. But I dont think this 
fully explains the omission of that information.
I am satisfied though that by 24 May 2021, Barclays had access to the information about the 
AT which it seems ultimately to have used when deciding not to lend on 30 June 2021. As 
per its lending criteria I think a valuation was still needed. But Barclays, in my view, delayed 
instructing the valuation. Which I think shouldve been done by no later than 26 May 2021. 
And it appears Barclays failed to provide all of the relevant information about the AT to the 
valuer for it to consider.
If Barclays hadnt unduly delayed the instruction of the valuation, and had provided the relevant information, I think the valuer wouldve been able to complete a full assessment of 
the property, including the impact of the AT, by 7 June 2021. Which I think Barclays wouldve 
had a copy of by no later than 9 June 2021 (based on when it received the valuation that 
was carried out). That valuation wouldve likely included the comments necessary for 
Barclays to make its lending decision at that time  approximately three weeks earlier than it 
did.
Id have expected this to have then been shared promptly with Mr and Mrs S. Im conscious 
though that, given the impending stamp duty deadline, Barclays would likely have been 
particularly busy. And it might not have been in a position to communicate this decision 
immediately. I certainly think though that this shouldve happened within two days, so by no 
later than 11 June 2021.
So, if Barclays hadnt made the errors that it did, I think it is likely that it couldve reasonably 
provided its lending decision to Mr and Mrs S by 11 June 2021.
Mr and Mrs S, via their broker, were able to source and arrange an alternative mortgage 
between 5 and 30 July 2021. And I see no reason that alternative funding would not have 
been sourced in a similar timeframe, had Mr and Mrs S been made aware of the Barclays 
lending decision when they shouldve been. But even if they had begun sourcing a 
replacement mortgage on 11 June 2021, based on how long it took them to obtain one, I 
dont think this wouldve been completed before the stamp duty exemption ended. And I 
dont think I can reasonably say the new lender wouldve processed an application faster 
than it did  given all lenders were likely to have been particularly busy at that time due to 
the stamp duty exemption ending.
With that in mind, I dont think I can reasonably say that, but for Barclays errors, Mr and 
Mrs S would not have been required to pay stamp duty. So, I cant reasonably ask Barclays 
to make a payment to cover this amount.
Mr and Mrs S have talked about having incurred additional solicitors costs. And Ive seen 
evidence, in emails from the solicitors, that the costs were increased due to the time spent 
dealing with this matter  particularly chasing Barclays. Im conscious though, even if 
Barclays had dealt with the application in the way it should, there would still have been 
significant extra work required on the solicitors part, as a result of the change of lender. So, 
Im not sure that these costs wouldnt otherwise have been incurred. And with that in mind, I 
again dont think I can fairly require Barclays to cover them.
Mr and Mrs S have also said that this matter has caused them a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience  not least due to the amount of time they spent dealing with this. Theyve 
also talked about the impact this had, in terms of stress, on other parties involved. But I can 
only consider the impact on Mr and Mrs S as part of this complaint.
I dont doubt that how Barclays has handled matters, and the errors it made, was upsetting. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S had to spend a great deal of time  more than I would usually 
expect  chasing Barclays for clarification. A great deal of which wouldve been avoided, had 
Barclays dealt with this application as I think it shouldve done. And I think only finding out on 
the day they initially expected to complete that there was an issue, wouldve been 
particularly upsetting. Im conscious though that applying for a mortgage and moving to a 
new house are already stressful experiences. So, I think Mr and Mrs S would always have 
been feeling an element of pressure when going through their application  particularly with 
the stamp duty deadline looming.  Id also add that it isnt our role to fine or punish a 
business for its errors.
Taking everything into account, while I think Barclays has caused unnecessary distress here, Im currently of the opinion that the offer of £500 it has already made to address this is 
fair. So, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, I dont think it 
needs to do more to address this aspect of their complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Barclays said it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt agree with my provisional findings. They said they were still of 
the opinion that the delay caused by Barclays had caused them to incur a loss. So, they felt 
the offer made by Barclays was inadequate.
Mr and Mrs S asked for additional time, to provide further comments. I agreed an extension 
to the deadline for responses to my provisional findings  which has now passed. But Mr and 
Mrs S have not provided any further comments for me to consider, beyond their initial 
response where they said they didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs S do not agree with my findings so far and they still feel that 
Barclays has caused them to incur a loss  through having to pay stamp duty that might 
otherwise have been avoided. And I know they feel strongly about this matter. But having 
considered everything again, and as I havent been provided any additional information to 
consider from either party, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I think Barclays did make mistakes in the handling of Mr and Mrs S mortgage application, 
which caused delays. But, for the reasons I explained in my provisional findings, based on 
the information and evidence provided to me, I cant reasonably say that without these errors 
Mr and Mrs S would not have had to pay stamp duty on the purchase of their property. Or 
that they wouldnt have incurred the solicitors costs that they did. And so, in the 
circumstances, I think the offer made by Barclays, to pay £500 for the distress caused, is fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
If it has not already done so Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs S £500, as it 
previously offered to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman