DRN-3228710
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Savings and Investments (NSI) wouldnt accept a copy of her 
Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA). 
What happened
Mrs B is represented by her son, Mr B, and I will refer to him as such in this decision.
Mrs Bs LPA was dated 21 June 2019 and named Mr B as sole attorney. On 25 September 
2020, Mr B wrote to NSI with a copy of the initial pages of Mrs Bs LPA. On 1 October 2020, 
NSI wrote to Mr B and said the LPA was incomplete. NSI asked to see the original, or a 
certified copy of it. On 12 October 2020, Mr B sent a copy of the LPA, certified by Mrs B. On 
20 October 2020, NSI wrote back to Mr B and said the certified LPA wasnt correctly certified 
 as it was a photocopy of the LPA and it bore only a photocopy of Mrs Bs signature. 
On 31 December 2020, Mr B sent to NSI a copy of the LPA, with each page certified by Mrs 
B. On 18 January 2021, NSI wrote back to Mr B and said they needed a letter from Mrs Bs 
doctor to confirm she had the capacity to fully understand. On 21 January 2021, Mr B sent a 
copy of the LPA, witnessed by a solicitor, and this was accepted by NSI and registered in 
their records in February 2021.
Mr B complained. He said NSI had unfairly labelled Mrs B as suffering from dementia. He 
said that under the Mental Capacity Act it must be assumed a person retains capacity unless 
it can be established otherwise. He said NSI therefore acted in violation of the Act. NSI 
should change their procedures.
NSI said they could only accept a copy LPA if it had been correctly certified on every page 
as being a true and complete copy of the original. This was a legal requirement under 
Lasting Powers of Attorney, Enduring Powers of Attorney and Public Guardian Regulations 
2007. And, a copy could only be certified by an individual Solicitor, the Donor of the Power 
(provided they retain mental capacity) or a Notary Public. NSI said in the case of Mrs Bs 
LPA, the certification wasnt correct. This was because they could only accept donors 
certifications if they still had the mental capacity to do so. And Mr B had advised NSI that 
Mrs B didnt have the mental capacity. 
NSI apologised for the wrong advice Mr B originally received  when he was told to send in 
the first few pages of the LPA  and for that, paid compensation of £50.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered that NSI acted reasonably. On 
25 September 2020, Mr B wrote to NSI to say his mother was suffering from Alzheimers. It 
was reasonable for NSI to consider she didnt have the mental capacity to handle her 
financial affairs. He didnt agree with Mr Bs interpretation of the Mental Capacity Act. He 
said it was for Mr B to show to NSI that Mrs B had sufficient mental capacity to certify the 
copy LPA.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On behalf of Mrs B, Mr Bs complaint is that:
Under the Mental Capacity Act, the onus was on NSI to show that Mrs B, as the 
donor of her LPA, didnt have the capacity to certify the copies of it. To do that, it was 
for NSI to obtain a suitable medical report. Until then, it must be assumed that Mrs B 
had to capacity to act.
NSI should change their operating procedures to recognise that, and to ensure other 
customers arent also disadvantaged.
In Mr Bs correspondence with NSI, he also referred to the fact that Mrs B was locked 
out of internet banking as a result  but he didnt bring this complaint to us, so I wont 
consider this point.
Let me say that this service doesnt regulate financial services businesses  thats the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we cant make NSI, for example, change their 
operating processes  thats for the FCA to decide. Instead my role is to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the process of registering Mrs Bs LPA with NSI was a frustrating experience 
for Mr B. He had two initial attempts  both of which were rejected by NSI. On 25 September 
2020, he sent copies of the first few pages to NSI - and these were rejected as being not 
acceptable. This was due to some wrong advice given by NSI on the phone  for which they 
apologised and paid compensation of £50. Then, on 12 October 2020  NSI again rejected 
the copy of the LPA, as it was a photocopy which included a copy of Mrs Bs signature. 
Given the requirements of the Act (as set out by NSI in their final response dated 29 April 
2021), I cant say NSI were wrong to reject the first two attempts by Mr B. But while thats not 
the crux of his complaint, it must have led to a growing sense of frustration for him.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that when he wrote to NSI on 31 December 2020  he 
enclosed a copy of Mrs Bs LPA, each page signed and certified by her  so he thought this 
was what was needed. But  NSI then wrote to him on 18 January 2021 and said they 
couldnt accept the copy LPA as they didnt consider that Mrs B had the mental capacity to 
certify it. I can see this was because when Mr B first wrote to NSI on 25 September 2020 he 
stated she is currently 90 and suffers from Alzheimers.  NSI said theyd need a letter 
from Mrs Bs doctor to show she had the capacity to fully understand her actions of certifying 
the LPA.
I looked at the document published by the Office of the Public Guardian 18 where it confirms 
if a donor still has mental capacity, they can certify their own copy of their LPA. So  the 
OPG guidance is consistent with what NSI did. But the issue with this complaint is - who has 
the responsibility to show a donor has mental capacity.
On the one hand, Mr B argues that the Mental Capacity Act says it is for NSI to show that 
Mrs B didnt have capacity  and until they did that, it must be assumed that she did. It was 
therefore for NSI to arrange a medical examination of Mrs B. 
On the other hand, NSI argue they were on notice that Mrs B may not have mental capacity 
 and their responsibility was to ensure Mrs Bs investments were protected. Therefore, they 
say they acted reasonably.Let me say that our role is to decide whether a firm acted fairly and reasonably in the 
individual circumstances of a complaint. Our role is not to decide whether a firm, or  
customer, has interpreted the law correctly or not. Thats for a court to decide. So, while Ive 
taken into account what the relevant law says here, Ive focused on whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, in line with our role as a quick and informal service.
In doing so, Ive considered that NSIs has a responsibility to ensure that Mrs Bs 
investments were protected. And  quite reasonably, they were concerned that she may not 
have had the mental capacity to certify the copy LPA based on what theyd been told about 
her. Its fair to say that NSI are not medical experts  - and they cant therefore be expected to 
decide whether Mrs Bs condition did or didnt affect her mental capacity. And  thats why 
they asked for a medical report in their letter dated 18 January 2021. So, I think that was a 
reasonable thing to do, with Mrs Bs best interests in mind  even if I realise Mr B doesnt 
see it that way.
I can also see that NSI did suggest to Mr B in their letters dated 1 October 2020 and 20 
October 2020  that Mr B could send in the original LPA. But Mr B chose not to do that  but 
NSI did put to Mr B another way forward.
In the event, the LPA was certified by a solicitor and it was accepted in February 2021. So  
while I appreciate that what happened was frustrating for Mr B, there wasnt any loss to Mrs 
B because of what happened.
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly about what happened, and so will be disappointed by 
my decision. But Im not going to ask NSI to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman