DRN-2931094
The complaint
Mr W complains on behalf of his daughter, Miss W, about the transfer of her cash Junior ISA
(JISA) from the previous tax year into her JISA with Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd 
referred to as Vanguard or the transferee  from a third-party provider, referred to as the
transferor.
Mr W tried to do it himself online, but unintentionally set up a new account which needed to
be closed.
What happened
In my provisional decision of late June 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms part 
of this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, provisionally I think that Vanguard should pay
Miss W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its numerous
errors, resulting in delayed transfer and account consolidation.
In the circumstances, Im unable to safely say that its responsible for any loss of value on the
basis that Mr W didnt select to invest immediately after the transfer.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mr Ws strength of feeling
about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr W and Vanguard, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice.
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
From the brief chronology of events, Mr W initiated the transfer process for Miss W on 7 April
2020, and for his other daughter on 8 April 2020. Although Mr W erroneously set up a new
account, Vanguard accepts that its the way that its done with its JISA transfer and that it
was an area of improvement going forward.
I note that Mr W said that failing to select the investment option is irrelevant, and that
investors can choose not to select that option for several reasons, including when not
wishing to make a pre-determined decision. Whilst I appreciate what he says, I cant blame
Vanguard for following his instructions and not investing the funds immediately after the
transfer, notwithstanding the delays.
So, despite what Mr W says, Im mindful that he didnt select the option to re-invest the
money immediately, but nevertheless had the option to do so. In other words, the online
transfer form that Mr W filled out on behalf of Miss W would suggest that he wasnt sure
what he wanted to invest in  given the state of the markets  and therefore didnt want to
invest immediately.
I note Mr W said that it wasnt reasonable for an investor to begin the (transfer) process
knowing where they want to invest, and the markets were extremely volatile during the
relevant period, which would again suggest that he didnt want to invest straightaway, and
certainly not without allowing the markets to steady, before deciding what to do. In any case,
without the power of hindsight, and a calm market, I dont think its possible to say what
funds Mr W wouldve invested in.
Vanguard said that because the transferee doesnt accept electronic transfer requests it
uploaded the forms to Miss Ws account to print, sign and post back. Vanguard said that the
completed forms were submitted to the transferee on 16 April 2020.
On 13 May 2020, Mr W contacted Vanguard for an update, and was told that the forms had
been sent. But after contacting the transferee, he found that it hadnt received a copy of the
request from Vanguard, and that it was still working on a small backlog of applications
received on 7 May 2020.
Vanguard asked for the forms to be re-submitted, as per Mr Ws request, which was done on
20 May 2020 for Miss W, and 22 May for Mr Ws other daughter. I appreciate the issue
mightve taken longer to identify if Mr W hadnt chased the businesses, but despite what Mr
W says, I think its unlikely that the application wouldnt have been sent by Vanguard in the
first instance. Its possible that there was an issue with the postal service, but if there was, it
wasnt something that Vanguard caused. So, in the circumstances I cant blame it for the
actions of a third-party postal service.
I note that on 28 May 2020, Miss Ws request was rejected. At the time, Vanguard said that
this was because the JISA registered contact details didnt match the details held by the
transferee. But it was later clarified by Vanguard that the details werent incorrect, but
insufficient detail had been provided. I note that Vanguard now accepts that it didnt include
a cover letter with the application sent, as requested by the transferee.
Although the application was re-submitted on 2 June 2020, it was done so without the cover
letter. I note that subsequent applications were rejected, on 10 June and 17 June 2020,
because they also didnt contain the cover letter which all added to the delays.
On 24 June 2020, a payment of £9,522.28 was eventually allocated to Miss Ws JISA,
completing her ISA transfer.
I note that on 7 July 2020, Mr W was still waiting to hear about the account consolidation. On
11 August 2020, Vanguard confirmed, via secure message, the following:
During a recent review of your account we have identified that there are 2 Junior ISAs
active in (Miss Ws) name. Our investigation has revealed that the duplication was caused by
a previous transfer. There is nothing for you to do and we will go ahead and correct this by
merging the accounts.
Once this is complete you will only be able to see one Junior ISA for Miss W, and any
regular payments or fee payment instructions, will continue as before.
We are sorry for any confusion this may have caused
I note, in due course, on 13 August 2020, Vanguard notified Mr W that the merger of Miss
Ws account was under way and that Mr W may see some movements in the account. It alsosaid that now Mr W had made the investments in the accounts he should leave them be for
the next few days. I note the merger completed on 14 September 2020, before the zero
balance was removed and Mr W could begin to trade as normal.
I appreciate that Mr W, on behalf of Miss W wouldnt have had the opportunity to invest
when he wanted to due to the delays. In other words, despite not choosing to invest
immediately, if Mr W had wanted to invest sooner, he wouldve been deprived of the
opportunity to do so. But this is isnt what he wanted to do, and I cant pay redress on the
basis of what he mightve done.
Im also mindful of the business comments regarding the opportunity to invest prior to the
merger of the accounts, whilst this may have been the case, I note it was borne out of an
error by the business. In other words, Vanguard erroneously sold down Miss Ws holdings to
cash during the transfer process leaving the cash available for investment because it wasnt
ring fenced. In the circumstances I think its likely to have caused Miss W further distress
and inconvenience notwithstanding the business making good any losses by November
2020.
So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Vanguard says, provisionally I
think it should pay Miss W £200 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience
caused by the numerous errors resulting in the delays and cash being (erroneously)
available for investment.
I should make clear that Mr W, as the representative of Miss W, isnt technically entitled to
any compensation from Vanguard, so in the circumstances I cant direct Vanguard to pay
him anything for his time and effort in perusing this complaint. If Vanguard wish to pay Mr W
any compensation thats a matter for them.
I appreciate that Mr W might be unhappy. Furthermore, I realise my decision probably isn't
what Miss W wants to hear. But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance,
provisionally Im unable give her what she wants.
Mr W responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he made the 
following key points:
By using the phrase Im unable to safely say has the civil standard of proof been 
applied? The wording suggests otherwise. 
Hes disappointed that Ive attached so much weight to his choice not to select the 
option to invest immediately. 
The crux of the complaint is what would he have invested in had the transfer been 
made in a timely manner? I should consider the following:
oWhen would the transfer have completed but for the delays by Vanguard? 
oWhether in the circumstances he wouldve chosen to invest, notwithstanding 
the form he filled out choosing not to invest immediately?
The £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is arbitrary, it 
doesnt take into account the true extent of the pain and suffering caused.  
Vanguard also responded and said it accepted my provisional reason. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, notwithstanding the submissions from the parties, my decision remains the 
same as set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr W, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I still think the complaint should be upheld and 
Vanguard should pay Miss W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its numerous errors, resulting in delayed transfer and account consolidation.
In the circumstances, Im unable to safely say that its responsible for any loss of value on the
basis that Mr W didnt select to invest immediately after the transfer.
Despite Mr Ws concerns I can assure him that I have applied the civil standard of proof in 
deciding this case, in line with my obligation as an ombudsman. In other words, Ive 
considered on a balance of probabilities whats more likely (than not) to have happened. 
I appreciate Mr Ws general disappointment regarding my decision, but how much weight I 
attach to a piece of evidence is a matter for me, as part of my role as the ombudsman 
deciding this case.   
I appreciate Mr Ws points regarding what he wouldve done if the transfer had been made 
sooner. But despite what he says Im unable to safely say what he wouldve done. Without 
the power of hindsight, and a calm market, I dont think its possible to say what
funds Mr W wouldve invested in or when. So, in the circumstances  having chosen not to 
invest immediately  Im unable to safely award redress on the basis of what Mr W mightve 
done.  
Despite what Mr W says, I think the compensation is broadly fair and reasonable for the 
reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd should pay Miss W £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman