DRN-4324943
The complaint
Mr C has complained about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU). He isnt happy it chose not to offer the chance to renew the insurance policies he 
held with it. 
Mr Cs representative has advanced his complaint but for ease Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr C advanced a claim through his insurance policy, but the relationship with his insurer 
broke down. Mr C told NFU that he didnt want to renew his insurance policy with it. And at a 
later stage NFU told Mr C that it wouldnt offer to renew his policy at the time of renewal or 
any of the other products it held for him. 
As Mr C isnt happy about this and feels NFU was being malicious when it chose to do this 
he complained to NFU and then this Service. This was because Mr C feels obliged to tell 
future insurers that he has had insurance cancelled.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C but didnt uphold his complaint. He explained 
that NFU was entitled to decide who it would and wouldnt insure so he didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. And as Mr Cs policy wasnt cancelled or refused, as he hadnt applied 
to renew his insurance with NFU, he didnt need to tell his future insurers about this.
As Mr C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Mr Cs position and frustration Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
As Mr C has explained he didnt want to renew his policy with NFU, so he had already 
chosen to take out insurance elsewhere before NFU went on to say it wasnt likely to offer 
renewal. So, I think its clear that Mr C didnt want to renew his insurance with NFU, and had 
told NFU this, as there had been a breakdown in the relationship between the two. As such I 
think it is clear NFU didnt refuse to insure Mr C  indeed it continued with his policy that he 
had in place until renewal - and Mr C had already expressed his view that he wasnt going to 
renew with NFU so it was clearly Mr C who chose not to take out insurance with NFU in the 
first instance. 
Given this, and the fact that NFU hasnt recorded any cancellation markers against Mr C I 
think it is clear that his policy wasnt cancelled (as cover continued) and he wasnt refused 
insurance by NFU as he didnt apply and had already said that he was taking his business 
elsewhere. As such he wouldnt need to say he had a policy cancelled or refused in any 
future insurance application as this clearly wouldnt be correct. So, although Mr C feels that 
he would need to tell future insurers that he has had an insurance policy cancelled or an 
insurer had refused to cover him it is clear that isnt the case.
I know Mr C feels that NFU has acted maliciously here but I havent seen any evidence of 
this. It has simply made a commercial decision not to offer renewal as the relationship 
between the parties had broken down. This Service cant tell a business what decisions it 
can and cant take and who it can insure. It is simply a commercial decision here given the 
breakdown in relationships between the parties  which was the very reason Mr C had 
chosen not to renew with NFU as well. And I cant punish NFU for making this decision as 
Mr C would like. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman