DRN-3492624
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) provided 
him with poor customer service. He says he was mis-led by the provider of its currency 
service and, when he raised the matter with HLAM, it provided a poor response and seemed 
to accept the providers deceit and misdirection. He wants an apology and explanation, and 
a goodwill gesture to cover his lost time and costs.
What happened
Mr H has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. As part of that service, HLAM 
offers foreign exchange services. In November 2020, HLAM stopped providing foreign 
exchange itself, but offered Mr H a currency service through a third party, who I will refer to 
as C.
Mr H opened an account with C, but experienced problems when he tried to make a foreign 
exchange transfer. He complained to C. C didnt uphold his complaint. Mr H contacted 
HLAM to tell it hed raised a complaint with C. He said HLAM had told him the new service 
will make is easier for you to buy, sell and send currency around the world, but this hadnt 
been his experience.
HLAM said it was satisfied with what C had done and that if Mr H wasnt satisfied with Cs 
response to his complaint, he could refer it to this service.
Mr H referred his complaint against C to us. He also referred his complaint against HLAM to 
us, although HLAM hadnt provided a final response letter because it hadnt treated Mr Hs 
communication as a complaint. It thought Mr Hs complaint was about the service C had 
provided, and that C was responsible for the complaint.
Following our involvement, HLAM investigated whether its communication with Mr H had 
been misleading because of the service Mr H had received. It concluded that, whilst Mr H 
had incurred some inconvenience in needing to register for Cs service, it was a business 
decision to move responsibility for the currency service to C. And it was satisfied that the 
new service is competitive and gives the best outcome for its clients. HLAM didnt conclude 
the content of its communications was misleading or untrue.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded 
HLAMs emails werent misleading or untrue and that Mr H was given enough time to 
consider if he wanted to apply for Cs service. He didnt think HLAM had brushed aside 
Mr Hs concerns and that HLAM had responded to those concerns in a timely manner.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
This is essentially the same complaint that he had against C. This service upheld that 
complaint, so it shouldnt reach a different outcome here.
He didnt sign up to Cs currency service, he was migrated against his will and without 
his consent.
He had difficulty transferring money because of the failings of C and HLAM; and HLAM is 
responsible because it sold him the service and its communications were misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted in my summary of the complaint, Mr H complained both to C and to HLAM. This 
service has already made a final decision about his complaint against C and I cant comment 
on that further here; other than to note it was upheld and Mr H was awarded compensation. 
This decision is only about his complaint against HLAM.
Clause A7 of HLAMs terms and conditions says:
We may change the Terms, including our fees and charges, from time to time in whole or in 
part, by giving you reasonable notice of the change.
HLAM stopped providing its own currency service in November 2020. It emailed Mr H in July 
2020 to tell him that it was going to stop providing the service itself but that it had made an 
arrangement with C. It sent a further email on 23 October 2020 to say it expected to launch 
the new service on 10 November. And on 10 November it emailed Mr H to tell him the new 
service was available and how to access it by opening an account with C. Im satisfied that 
HLAM gave Mr H enough notice about the change and enough information to allow him to 
apply for the service provided by C if he wanted to do so.
I dont find Mr H was migrated to the service without his consent. It wasnt a requirement of 
his HLAM account to have a foreign exchange account. It was his decision to register with C 
and open an account.
HLAM has acknowledged its disappointing Mr H had to complain. Unfortunately isolated 
errors sometimes occur and service sometimes doesnt meet expectations and that seems 
to have been the case here. Overall, theres nothing to evidence the service provided by C 
doesnt reflect the overall benefits set out by HLAM and I dont find HLAMs descriptions of 
the new service were misleading.
Mr H says he received a poor response from HLAM when he complained. But I find C was 
already dealing with his complaint. I think it was appropriate to allow C to investigate and 
provide a response. I dont think HLAMs responses were unreasonable in the circumstances 
 it focussed on the additional information C had requested and concluded C was 
reasonable in asking for that information.
HLAM has asked me to pass on its apologies for any inconvenience Mr H was caused by C. 
Mr H wants HLAM to make a goodwill gesture for the time and costs involved in his 
complaint. Following our decision on his complaint against C, C paid him compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. I dont find HLAM has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably so I dont find theres any obligation on HLAM to pay any additional 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman