DRN-4222538
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) who 
declined their claim and cancelled their cover, under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2016/2017 Mr and Mrs Cs neighbour carried out some renovation works at their property. 
This caused damage to Mr and Mrs Cs home, in the form of cracks that appeared on some 
walls. Mr and Mrs Cs neighbour accepted liability and agreed to deal with the damage. So, 
Mr and Mrs C didnt report the damage to LV at the time. 
However, there was a delay in Mr and Mrs Cs neighbour dealing with the damage. So, they 
contacted LV and made a claim. It sent a surveyor to assess the damage under the peril of 
subsidence. He carried out assessment and determined that there was no subsidence and 
under this peril, declined the claim, as he concluded that the damage was likely due to the 
renovation works of their neighbour. But LV then considered the claim under the peril of 
accidental damage. However, due to the passage of time and Mr and Mrs Cs failure to 
report the damage sooner, LV declined the claim and cancelled the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to LV. In its final response, LV maintained it position and gave Mr 
and Mrs C their referral rights. They referred their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
She agreed that LV had been prejudiced by Mr and Mrs C delaying the report of the claim. 
Not only because it could affect its ability to validate the claim, but also due to statutory time 
limits, which meant that as the claim had been made outside of the limits, LV would unlikely 
be able to recover its costs from Mr and Mrs Cs neighbour. 
She also said that LV had discovered that during the renewals process, Mr and Mrs C had 
been specifically asked if their property was in good condition. To which they answered yes. 
LV said that had it known that Mr and Mrs Cs home had the damage, it wouldve likely not 
offered cover. The policy was cancelled, and a refund was given. Our investigator concluded 
that LV hadnt been unreasonable to decline the claim nor to cancel the policy. 
LV accepted the view, Mr and Mrs C did not. They questioned whether the time limit applied 
at all, not least as there appeared to be a jurisdiction issue. The damage took around three 
years to settle before the full extent and costs became known. Their neighbour had initially 
agreed to pay for the repairs and as a result, they had no intention to claim on the policy. 
And they only made a claim when their neighbour changed their mind. They stressed that 
they were not aware of any time limit nor was it disclosed in the policy terms and conditions. 
Had they been made aware of the time limits; they wouldve made a claim much earlier. So, 
they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have reviewed all the comments made by both parties and the policy terms and conditions. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs C said that there was no timeframe stipulated in the policy 
terms and conditions and it was unfair for LV to rely on a statutory time limit, especially as 
they hadnt been made previously aware about it. So, Ive had a look into this. 
I accept (as does LV) that there wasnt a specific time limit mentioned within the policy terms 
and conditions. Its also fair to say that our service covers jurisdiction within England and 
Wales. So, although LV has indicated that it would be time barred by legislation (outside of 
England and Wales) from recovering costs from a third party, I havent placed much weight 
on this, due to the jurisdiction element that I have mentioned. 
However, I am persuaded by LVs comments regarding the policy terms and conditions and 
in particular page 11 - general condition 4. Under the Accident and claims which procedure 
states  
You or any other person claiming under this insurance must:
  Give us full details of the incident as soon as possible. 
 Send to us immediately all communications for other people involved which must not have 
been replied to. 
 Immediately tell us of and send to us any notice of intended prosecution, inquest, fatal 
inquiry, or any writ, summons or process which must not have been replied to. 
 Provide us with information relevant to your claim that we may require to help us validate 
and process your claim such as purchase receipts, valuations, photographs, and reports. 
 Help us to pursue a recovery (where applicable) against a third party
I understand that Mr and Mrs C said that their neighbour had originally indicated that they 
would be responsible for the damage that was caused. And that the neighbour appears to 
have withdrawn their responsibility. But the damage occurred as long ago as five years 
before Mr and Mrs C reported it to LV. And having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, 
I dont think that Mr and Mrs C gave the full details of the claim as soon as possible. 
Nor did they provide LV with details of any communications that must have taken place 
between them and their neighbour  immediately (as was required under the policy). Had 
they done this, then they wouldve been complying with the terms. And moreover, satisfying 
the condition that they help LV in the pursuit of the recovery of costs against their neighbour. 
None of this (as far as the evidence shows) was done by Mr and Mrs C.
I fully appreciate the personal vulnerabilities and issues that Mr and Mrs C experienced 
during this time, but I dont think LV were unfair to decline the claim on due to the delay in Mr 
and Mrs C reporting the damage, for the reasons that Ive outlined. 
Ive next considered whether LV were fair to cancel Mr and Mrs Cs policy, due to the delay 
in making the claim. And I think it was, so I will explain why. Mr and Mrs C held home insurance with LV for a few years. I have been provided with some 
renewal documents. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C had those renewal documents and it 
appears were happy to continue to renew with LV. 
The damage to their home occurred in 2017, but it wasnt until 2022 that Mr and Mrs C made 
a claim for it. I note that within the renewal documents, Mr and Mrs C were asked questions 
relating to the condition of their home. I cant see that at any time during or after the 
renewals took place, that Mr and Mrs C told LV about the damage that had occurred.
LV said that had it been made aware of the damage it wouldve reconsidered the policy 
terms and possibly wouldnt have offered cover. It also confirmed that as a result, it 
cancelled the policy. Having reviewed the terms of the policy, I can see that LV have to 
provide policyholders with seven days notice advising them of the cancellation. LV gave in 
excess of this, as it was investigating the claim. So, the policy was cancelled with more than 
enough notice. And on the basis of Mr and Mrs Cs failure to disclose the damage for several 
years.
Accordingly, I think it was fair and reasonable for LV to have declined the claim and 
cancelled the policy, given Mr and Mrs Cs breach of the policy terms. Although, I accept 
there was no specific time frame disclosed in the policy terms, I dont think Mr and Mrs C 
raised the claim as soon as possible. And didnt disclose to LV, any damage to their home 
for several years. 
I acknowledge Mrs and Mr Cs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why 
they referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent 
seen enough evidence to show that LV acted unfairly or unreasonably. Im therefore not 
going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman